14. Neglect not the gift—by
	letting it lie unused. In 2 Timothy 1:6
	the gift is represented as a spark of the Spirit lying within
	him, and sure to smoulder by neglect, the stirring up or
	keeping in lively exercise of which depends on the will of him on
	whom it is bestowed (Matthew 25:18;
	Matthew 25:25; Matthew 25:27;
	Matthew 25:28). The charism or
	spiritual gift, is that of the Spirit which qualified him for "the
	work of an evangelist" (Ephesians 4:11;
	2 Timothy 4:5), or perhaps the gift
	of discerning spirits, specially needed in his function of
	ordaining, as overseer [BISHOP
	HINDS]. 
	given thee—by God
	(1 Corinthians 12:4; 1 Corinthians 12:6).
	by prophecy—that is, by
	the Holy Spirit, at his general ordination, or else consecration, to
	the special see of Ephesus, speaking through the prophets God's will
	to give him the graces needed to qualify him for his work (1 Timothy 1:18;
	Acts 13:1-3). 
	with . . . laying on of . . .
	hands—So in Joshua's case (Numbers 27:18-20;
	Deuteronomy 34:9). The gift was connected
	with the symbolical act of laying on hands. But the Greek
	"with" implies that the presbyter's laying on hands
	was the mere accompaniment of the conferring of the gift. "By"
	(2 Timothy 1:6) implies that Paul's
	laying on his hands was the actual instrument of its being
	conferred. 
	of the presbytery—In
	2 Timothy 1:6 the apostle mentions
	only his own laying on of hands. But there his aim is to
	remind Timothy specially of the part he himself took in imparting to
	him the gift. Here he mentions the fact, quite consistent with the
	other, that the neighboring presbyters took part in the ordination or
	consecration, he, however, taking the foremost part. Paul, though
	having the general oversight of the elders everywhere, was an elder
	himself (1 Peter 5:1; 2 John 1:1).
	The Jewish council was composed of the elders of the Church (the
	presbytery, Luke 22:66; Acts 22:5),
	and a presiding rabbi; so the Christian Church was composed of
	apostles, elders, and a president (Acts 22:5- :). As the president of the synagogue was of the same order
	as his presbyters, so the bishop was of the same order as his
	presbyters. At the ordination of the president of the synagogue there
	were always three presbyters present to lay on hands, so the early
	Church canons required three bishops to be present at the
	consecration of a bishop. As the president of the synagogue, so the
	bishop of the Church alone could ordain, he acting as the
	representative, and in the name of the whole presbytery [VITRINGA].
	So, in the Anglican Church, the bishop ordains, the presbyters or
	priests present joining with him in laying on hands.