 IV. THE UNIVERSALITY OF THIS SALVATION, AND THE HISTORICAL ORDER OF ITS APPLICATION.
	The   gospel is God’s power unto salvation, to the  Jew first, and also to the  Gentile (chap. Romans 1:16): The unbelief of the Jews seemed to invalidate the Apostle’s statement respecting the universality of this salvation, and he therefore discusses the question which lay so close to his own heart. This of itself would account for these chapters; but it is also true that every one of his readers, irrespective of any supposed conflict between Jewish and Gentile Christians, would be profoundly interested in the matter. Ever since Christian people have been interested in it, both as belonging to the historical course of the development of the kingdom of God, and as one of the darkest mysteries of God’s dealings with men. So long as the mass of the Jews reject the Lord Jesus as the Messiah, the mystery will remain unsolved, except as, these chapters present a solution. It seems idle, therefore, to build up a baseless theory about the internal condition of the Roman congregation, to account for this portion of the Epistle (comp. Introduction).
	On the other hand, this natural view of the passage helps the reader to avoid the false notion, that the Apostle here treats of Divine sovereignty in an abstract manner. He writes, not in a cold, metaphysical tone, but with a pathos at times almost tragical (comp. chap. Romans 9:3). Luther, therefore, well says of these chapters as related to what precedes: ‘Who hath not known passion, cross, and travail of death, cannot treat of foreknowledge (election of grace), without injury and inward enmity toward God. Wherefore take heed that thou drink not wine, while thou art yet a sucking babe. Each several doctrine hath its own season, and measure, and age.’
	ANALYSIS: 1. Chap. Romans 9:1-29: GOD’S SOVEREIGNTY: His promise is not void.
	I.  Expression of deep sorrow at the fact of the exclusion of so many of his people, God’s covenant people, from salvation in Christ, chap. Romans 9:1-5.
	II.  But this does not render God's promise void; chap. Romans 9:6-29. For  (a.) that promise was made of free grace, only to the chosen ones, as illustrated in the case of Isaac and Jacob (Romans 9:6-13);  (b.) In this election God is not unjust, for He has a right to choose, being sovereign (Romans 9:14-29).
	2. Chaps. Romans 9:30 to Romans 10:21: MAN’S RESPONSIBILITY: The Jews were excluded on the ground of  their own unbelief.
	I. The fact that the Jews rejected the way of faith: chap. Romans 9:30-33.
	II. The proof that this was the one way of salvation; hence the unbelieving Jews themselves responsible; chap. Romans 10:1-21.
	3. Chap. 11: THE PROSPECTIVE SOLUTION: But God has not cast off His people forever.
	I.  The rejection of Israel is not total; a remnant, elected of grace, will be saved (Romans 11:1-10).
	II.  It is not final; the unbelief and fall of Israel turns out for the salvation and reviving of the Gentiles, who, however, should not boast (Romans 11:11-24); since the rejection is only temporary, ultimately Israel will be saved (Romans 11:25-32).
	