Romans 9:11. The parentheses are unnecessary, since we place a dash at the end of Romans 9:10
 For  without their having as yet been born,  or done  anything good or ill. This rendering, though varying from the form of the Greek, expresses the exact sense in its relation to what follows. ‘Their’ is properly supplied, rather than ‘the children.’ The reading of the best authorities gives a word which we render ‘ill,’ as having a wider range of meaning than ‘evil,’ though here it means immoral. The second clause incidentally opposes the doctrine of the preexistence of souls, and a previous fall
	 That the purpose of God according to  election. This clause indicates the purpose of what was said to Rebecca, and is put first for emphasis. The phrase, ‘according to election,’ is closely joined with ‘purpose;’ ‘the purpose which was so formed, that in it an election was made’ (Meyer). Both are ‘before the foundation of the world’ (Ephesians 1:4; Ephesians 3:11). The whole expression involves God’s freedom in His choice of individuals as an essential part of His purpose of redemption. Whether we can reconcile this with our consciousness of freedom, or not, it is here asserted to be a fact
	 Might abide, unchangeable, instead of ‘coming to nought’ (Romans 9:6); and this, not simply in man’s estimate, but in reality. ‘It is not only in the thought of man, it is  really  that the liberty of God would be compromised, if any human merit regulated his choice’ (Godet).
	 Not of works, but of him that calleth. This is joined by some with ‘purpose,’ by others with ‘abide,’ but is most correctly taken by others, as a definition of the whole preceding clause: and this design, that his purpose according to election might abide, was not effected by reason of works, did not depend on works, but on God Himself who calls. Whatever view be taken of the connection, the ultimate ground of our salvation is in God Himself. ‘God does not choose us  because  we believe, but  that we may believe’ (Augustine). Our salvation is not  on account of faith, but  through faith.