Romans 9:17.  For the Scripture saith unto Pharaoh. What the Scripture says is here regarded as equivalent to what God says: comp. Galatians 3:8; Galatians 3:22. The choice of an illustration outside the Jewish nation confirms the view that Paul is here concerned with principles of universal application. The case of Pharaoh presents the antithesis to God’s showing mercy.
	 Even for this  very purpose did I raise thee up. Freely quoted from the LXX. (Exodus 9:16). Moses was commanded to say this to Pharaoh, after the sixth plague had fallen on Egypt. The main question is respecting the meaning of ‘did I raise thee up’ which is an exact translation of Paul’s language. But the Hebrew means literally: ‘have caused thee to stand,’ and this the LXX. weakens into’ thou wert preserved. Explanations: ( 1 .) ‘Allowed thee to appear,’ thy whole historical appearance has been brought about by me, in order that, etc. This is the view of the majority of our best modem commentators. It is neither fatalistic, nor does it improperly weaken the strong language of the Apostle. Since God numbers the hairs of our head, He superintended the exodus of His people, and in this as a matter of history, the principal human factor was Pharaoh. He did not cause the evil, but bent and guided it for His own glory. ( 2 .) ‘Preserved thee alive.’ This agrees with the LXX. But Paul has, apparently with purpose, deviated from that translation. Moreover, this view fails to give sufficient strength to this link in the chain of the Apostle’s reasoning. ( 3 .) ‘Excited thee to opposition.’ But this does not agree either with the original Hebrew, or with the LXX. Nor does the context sustain it, since the reference to hardening in Romans 9:18 is based upon this verse as a whole, not on the sense of this phrase. ( 4 .) ‘Created thee,’ as a hardened sinner. This is a fatalistic view, alike uncalled for by the words of the argument. The first view is, therefore, decidedly preferable.
	 That I might show in thee my  power. This purpose was accomplished in the case of Pharaoh by means of the supernatural events accompanying the deliverance of the Israelites, which were called forth by the opposition of Pharaoh.
	 My name might be declared, etc. Further purpose. Comp. the song of Moses, after the destruction of Pharaoh’s army (Exodus 15:1-19, especially where he refers to the effect produced on other nations by these events.
	 The  whole earth. ‘A result which, in the later course of history, was especially fulfilled in the dispersion of the Jews and the spread of Christianity, and continues to be fulfilled’ (Meyer). Comp. the many allusions in the Psalms to these events as fulfilling these purposes.