This important and deeply interesting chapter, I have spoken of as the “third” part of the Epistle. See the introduction. It is more important than any other portion of the Epistle, as it contains a connected, and labored, and unanswerable argument for the main truth of Christianity, and, consequently, of Christianity itself; and it is more interesting to us as mortal beings, and as having an instinctive dread of death, than any other portion of the Epistle. It has always, therefore, been regarded with deep interest by expositors, and it is worthy of the deepest attention of all. If the argument in this chapter is solid, then Christianity is true; and if true, then this chapter unfolds to us the most elevated and glorious prospect which can be exhibited to dying, yet immortal man.There were, probably, two reasons why the apostle introduced here this discussion about the resurrection:First, it was desirable to introduce a condensed and connected statement of the main argument for the truth of Christianity. The Corinthians had been perplexed with subtle questions, and torn by sects and parties, and it was possible that in their zeal for sect and party, they would lose their hold on this great and vital argument for the truth of religion itself. It might. be further apprehended, that the enemies of the gospel, from seeing the divisions and strifes which existed there, would take advantage of these contentions, and say that a religion which produced such fruits could not be from God. It was important, therefore, that they should have access to an argument plain, clear, and unanswerable, for the truth of Christianity; and that thus the evil effects of their divisions and strifes might be counteracted.Secondly. It is evident from 1 Corinthians 15:12, that the important doctrine of the resurrection of the dead had been denied at Corinth, and that this error had obtained a footing in the church itself. On what grounds, or by what portion or party it was denied is unknown. It may have been that the influence of some Sadducean teacher may have led to the rejection of the doctrine; or it may have been the effect of philosophy. From Acts 17:32, we know that among some of the Greeks, the doctrine of the resurrection was regarded as ridiculous; and from 2 Timothy 2:18, we learn that it was held by some that the resurrection was passed already, and, consequently, that there was nothing but a spiritual resurrection. To counteract these errors, and to put the doctrine of the resurrection of the dead on a firm foundation, and thus to furnish a demonstration of the truth of Christianity, was the design of this chapter.The chapter may be regarded as divided into four parts, and four questions in regard to the resurrection are solved: I. The dead will be raised; 1 Corinthians 15:1-34. This Paul proves by the following arguments, and illustrates in the following manner: (a) From the Scripture; 1 Corinthians 15:1-4. (b) From the testimony of eyewitnesses; 1 Corinthians 15:5-11. (2) By showing the absurdity of the contrary doctrine;1 Corinthians 15:12-34; 1 Corinthians 15:12-34: (a) If the dead do not rise, it would follow that Christ has not risen; 1 Corinthians 15:13. (b) If Christ is not risen, he is preached in vain, and faith is reposed in him for nothing; 1 Corinthians 15:14. (c) It would follow that the apostles would be false witnesses and wicked people; whereas, the Corinthians had abundant reason to know the contrary; (d) The faith of the Corinthians must be vain if he was not risen, and they must regard themselves as still unpardoned sinners, since all their hope of pardon must arise from the fact that his work was accepted, and that he was raised up; 1 Corinthians 15:16-17. (e) If Christ was not risen, then all their pious friends who had believed in him must be regarded as lost; 1 Corinthians 15:18. (f) It would follow that believers in Christ would be in a more miserable condition than any others, if there was no resurrection;1 Corinthians 15:19; 1 Corinthians 15:19. (g) Baptism for the resurrection of the dead would be absurd and in vain, unless the dead arose; it would be vain to be baptized with the belief, and on the ground of the belief that Christ rose, and on the ground of the hope that they would rise; 1 Corinthians 15:29. (h) It would be in vain that the apostles and others had suffered so many toils and persecutions, unless the dead should rise; 1 Corinthians 15:30-32.In the course of this part of his argument 1 Corinthians 15:20-28 Paul introduces an “illustration” of the doctrine, or a statement of an important fact in regard to it, thus “separating” the argument in 1 Corinthians 15:19 from the next, which occurs in 1 Corinthians 15:29. Such interruptions of a train of thinking are not uncommon in the writings of Paul, and indicate the “fullness” and “richness” of his conceptions, when some striking thought occurs, or some plausible objection is to be met, and when he suspends his argument in order to state it. This interjected portion consists of the following items:(1) A triumphant and joyful assurance that Christ “had in fact risen;” as if his mind was full, and he was impatient of the delay caused by the necessity of slow argumentation; 1 Corinthians 15:19-20.(2) He “illustrates” the doctrine, or shows that it is “reasonable” that the certainty of the resurrection should be demonstrated by one in human nature, since death had been introduced by man; 1 Corinthians 15:21-22. This is an argument from “analogy,” drawn from the obvious propriety of the doctrine that man should be raised up in a manner somewhat similar to the mode in which he had been involved in ruin.(3) He states the “order” in which all this should be done; 1 Corinthians 15:23-28. It is possible that some may have held that the resurrection must have been already passed, since it depended so entirely and so closely on the resurrection of Christ; compare 2 Timothy 2:18. Paul, therefore, meets this objection; and shows that it must take place in a regular order; that Christ rose first, and that they who were his friends should rise at his coming. He then states what would take place at that time, when the work of redemption should have been consummated by the resurrection of the dead, and the entire recovery of all the redeemed to God, and the subjection of every foe. II. What will be the nature of the bodies that shall be raised up? 1 Corinthians 15:35-51.This inquiry is illustrated: (1) By a reference to grain that is sown; –1 Corinthians 15:36-38. (2) By a reference to the fact that there are different kinds of flesh; 1 Corinthians 15:39. (3) By a reference to the fact that there are celestial bodies and earthly bodies; 1 Corinthians 15:40. (4) By the fact that there is a difference between the sun, and moon, and stars; 1 Corinthians 15:41, (5) By a “direct statement,” for which the mind is prepared by these illustrations, of the important changes which the body of man must undergo, and of the nature of that body which he will have in heaven; –1 Corinthians 15:42-50. It is: (a) Incorruptible; 1 Corinthians 15:42. (b) Glorious; 1 Corinthians 15:43, (c) Powerful; 1 Corinthians 15:43. (d) A spiritual body; 1 Corinthians 15:44. (e) It is like the body of the second man, the Lord from heaven; 1 Corinthians 15:45-50. III. What will become of those who shall be alive when the Lord Jesus shall return to raise the dead?Answer: They shall be changed instantly, and suited for heaven, and made like the glorified saints that shall be raised from the dead; 1 Corinthians 15:51-54. IV. The practical consequences or influences of this doctrine; 1 Corinthians 15:55-58;  