3. was—omitted in the two
	oldest manuscripts but supported by Vulgate and Coptic.
	to look upon—Greek,
	"in sight," or "appearance." 
	jasper—From  :-, where it is called most precious, which the jasper
	was not, EBRARD infers it
	was a diamond. Ordinarily, the jasper is a stone of various
	wavy colors, somewhat transparent: in  :- it represents watery crystalline brightness. The sardine,
	our cornelian, or else a fiery red. As the watery brightness
	represents God's holiness, so the fiery red His justice executing
	fiery wrath. The same union of white or watery brightness and fiery
	redness appears in Revelation 1:14;
	Revelation 10:1; Ezekiel 1:4;
	Ezekiel 8:2; Daniel 7:9.
	rainbow round about the
	throne—forming a complete circle (type of God's perfection and
	eternity: not a half circle as the earthly rainbow) surrounding the
	throne vertically. Its various colors, which combined form one pure
	solar ray, symbolize the varied aspects of God's providential
	dealings uniting in one harmonious whole. Here, however, the
	predominating color among the prismatic colors is green, the most
	refreshing of colors to look upon, and so symbolizing God's
	consolatory promises in Christ to His people amidst judgments on His
	foes. Moreover, the rainbow was the appointed token of God's covenant
	with all flesh, and His people in particular. Hereby God in type
	renewed to man the grant originally made to the first Adam. The
	antitype will be the "new heavens and the new earth"
	restored to redeemed man, just as the earth, after the destruction by
	the flood, was restored to Noah. As the rainbow was first reflected
	on the waters of the world's ruin, and continues to be seen only when
	a cloud is brought over the earth, so another deluge, namely, of
	fire, shall precede the new heavens and earth: the Lord, as here, on
	His throne, whence (Revelation 4:5)
	proceed "lightnings and thunderings," shall issue the
	commission to rid the earth of its oppressors: but then, amidst
	judgment, when other men's hearts fail them for fear, the believer
	shall be reassured by the rainbow, the covenant token, round the
	throne (compare DE BURGH,
	Exposition of Revelation). The heavenly bow speaks of the
	shipwreck of the world through sin: it speaks also of calm and
	sunshine after the storm. The cloud is the regular token of
	God's and Christ's presence, for example, in the tabernacle's holiest
	place; on Mount Sinai at the giving of the law; at the ascension (Revelation 4:5- :); at His coming again (Revelation 4:5- :).