8. about him—Greek,
	"round about him." ALFORD
	connects this with the following sentence: "All round and within
	(their wings) they are (so two oldest manuscripts, A, B, and Vulgate
	read) full of eyes." John's object is to show that the six wings
	in each did not interfere with that which he had before declared,
	namely, that they were "full of eyes before and behind."
	The eyes were round the outside of each wing, and up the
	inside of each when half expanded, and of the part of body in
	that inward recess. 
	rest not—literally,
	"have no rest." How awfully different the reason why the
	worshippers of the beast "have no rest day nor night,"
	namely, "their torment for ever and ever." 
	Holy, holy, holy—The
	"tris-hagion" of the Greek liturgies. In  :-, as here, it occurs; also Psalms 99:3;
	Psalms 99:5; Psalms 99:9,
	where He is praised as "holy," (1) on account of His
	majesty (Revelation 4:1) about to
	display itself; (2) His justice (Revelation 4:1- :) already displaying itself; (3) His mercy (Revelation 4:1- :) which displayed itself in times past. So here "Holy,"
	as He "who was"; "Holy," as He "who is":
	"Holy," as He "who is to come." He showed Himself
	an object of holy worship in the past creation of all things: more
	fully He shows Himself so in governing all things: He will, in the
	highest degree, show Himself so in the consummation of all things.
	"Of (from) Him, through Him, and to Him, are all things: to whom
	be glory for ever. Amen." In Revelation 4:1- : there is added, "the whole EARTH
	is full of His glory." But in Revelation this is deferred until
	the glory of THE LORD
	fills the earth, His enemies having been destroyed [BENGEL].
	Almighty—answering to
	"Lord of hosts" (Sabaoth), Revelation 4:1- :. 
	The cherubim here have six
	wings, like the seraphim in Isaiah 6:2;
	whereas the cherubim in Ezekiel 1:6
	had four wings each. They are called by the same name, "living
	creatures." But whereas in Ezekiel each living creature has all
	four faces, here the four belong severally one to each. See on Ezekiel 1:6- :. The four living creatures answer by contrast to the
	four world powers represented by four beasts. The Fathers
	identified them with the four Gospels, Matthew the lion, Mark the ox,
	Luke the man, John the eagle: these symbols, thus viewed, express not
	the personal character of the Evangelists, but the manifold aspect of
	Christ in relation to the world (four being the number
	significant of world-wide extension, for example, the four quarters
	of the world) presented by them severally: the lion expressing
	royalty, as Matthew gives prominence to this feature of
	Christ; the ox, laborious endurance, Christ's prominent
	characteristic in Mark; man, brotherly sympathy with the whole
	race of man, Christ's prominent feature in Luke; the eagle, soaring
	majesty, prominent in John's description of Christ as the Divine
	Word. But here the context best suits the view which regards the four
	living creatures as representing the redeemed election-Church
	in its relation of ministering king-priests to God, and ministers of
	blessing to the redeemed earth, and the nations on it, and the animal
	creation, in which man stands at the head of all, the lion
	at the head of wild beasts, the ox at the head of tame beasts,
	the eagle at the head of birds and of the creatures of the
	waters. Compare Revelation 5:8-10,
	"Thou hast redeemed us by Thy blood out of every
	kindred . . . and hast made us unto our God kings and priests:
	and we shall reign on the earth"; and Revelation 5:8-66.5.10- :, the partakers with Christ of the first resurrection, who
	conjointly with Him reign over the redeemed nations that are
	in the flesh. Compare as to the happy and willing subjection of the
	lower animal world, Isaiah 11:6-8;
	Isaiah 65:25; Ezekiel 34:25;
	Hosea 2:18. Jewish tradition says
	the "four standards" under which Israel encamped in the
	wilderness, to the east, Judah, to the north, Dan, to the west,
	Ephraim, to the south, Reuben, were respectively a lion, an
	eagle, an ox, and a man, while in the midst was
	the tabernacle containing the Shekinah symbol of the Divine Presence.
	Thus we have "the picture of that blessed period when—the
	earth having been fitted for being the kingdom of the Father—the
	court of heaven will be transferred to earth, and the 'tabernacle of
	God shall be with men' (Revelation 21:3),
	and the whole world will be subject to a never-ending theocracy"
	(compare DE BURGH,
	Exposition of Revelation). The point of union between the two
	views given above is: Christ is the perfect realization of the ideal
	of man; Christ is presented in His fourfold aspect in the four
	Gospels respectively. The redeemed election-Church similarly, when in
	and through Christ (with whom she shall reign) she realizes the ideal
	of man, shall combine in herself human perfections having a fourfold
	aspect: (1) kingly righteousness with hatred of evil and judicial
	equity, answering to the "lion"; (2) laborious diligence in
	every duty, the "ox"; (3) human sympathy, the "man";
	(4) the contemplation of heavenly truth, the "eagle." As
	the high-soaring intelligence, the eagle, forms the contrasted
	complement to practical labor, the ox bound to the soil; so
	holy judicial vengeance against evil, the lion springing
	suddenly and terribly on the doomed, forms the contrasted complement
	to human sympathy, the man. In Revelation 21:3- : we read, "Each had six wings: with twain he covered his
	face (in reverence, as not presuming to lift up his face to
	God), with twain he covered his feet (in humility, as not worthy to
	stand in God's holy presence), and with twain he did fly [in obedient
	readiness to do instantly God's command]."