4. seats—rather as the Greek
	is translated in this very verse, "thrones," of course
	lower and smaller than the grand central throne. So  :-, "the seat (rather, throne) of the beasts,"
	in hellish parody of God's throne. 
	four and twenty elders—Greek,
	"the four and twenty (or as one oldest manuscript,
	'twenty-four') elders": the well-known elders [ALFORD].
	But TREGELLES translates,
	"Upon the twenty-four thrones (I saw: omitted in two
	oldest manuscripts) elders sitting": which is more probable, as
	the twenty-four elders were not mentioned before, whereas the
	twenty-four thrones were. They are not angels, for they have
	white robes and crowns of victory, implying a conflict
	and endurance, "Thou hast redeemed us": they
	represent the Heads of the Old and New Testament churches
	respectively, the Twelve Patriarchs (compare  :-, not in their personal, but in their representative
	character), and Twelve Apostles. So in  :-, "the song of Moses, and of the Lamb,"
	the double constituents of the Church are implied, the Old Testament
	and the New Testament. "Elders" is the very term for the
	ministry both of the Old and New Testament, the Jewish and the
	catholic Gentile Church. The tabernacle was a "pattern" of
	the heavenly antitype; the holy place, a figure of HEAVEN
	ITSELF. Thus Jehovah's throne is represented by the mercy seat
	in the holiest, the Shekinah-cloud over it. "The seven lamps of
	fire before the throne" ( :-) are antitypical to the seven-branched candlestick also in
	the holiest, emblem of the manifold Spirit of God: "the sea of
	glass" (Revelation 4:6) corresponds
	to the molten sea before the sanctuary, wherein the priests washed
	themselves before entering on their holy service; so introduced here
	in connection with the redeemed "priests unto God" (compare
	Note, see on Revelation 4:1).
	The "four living creatures" (Revelation 4:6;
	Revelation 4:7) answer to the cherubim
	over the mercy seat. So the twenty-four throned and crowned elders
	are typified by the twenty-four chiefs of the twenty-four courses of
	priests, "Governors of the sanctuary, and governors of
	God" (1 Chronicles 24:5; 1 Chronicles 25:1-31).