Whether any do inquire of Titus,.... The apostle here sums up the characters of each of the above persons; as for Titus, he says,he is my partner; he had been his companion in his travels, a partner with him in preaching the Gospel, as well as in the troubles and persecutions he had met with; and was one with whom he had had sweet communion and fellowship:and fellow helper; or worker,concerning you; he had been a joint instrument with him, either in their conversion, or consolation, and correction; or for their edification and instruction, and setting things right, which had been out of order among them:or our brethren be inquired of; if their characters are asked after, as well as Titus's; by whom are meant not his fellow apostles, but the two brethren who were sent along with Titus; what may be truly said of them is,they are the messengers of the churches; they were chosen and sent forth by the churches, not only to preach the Gospel, but particularly to take care of the ministration to the poor saints. They were messengers appointed by the churches for this service, and were also appointed to the service of the churches; respect seems to be had to the public minister in the synagogues, who was called צבורשליח, "the messenger of the congregation", or "church" z; whose business was to take care about the reading of the law and the prophets, to pray in public, and also to preach if there was no other; so we read a also of שלוחי בית דין, "the messengers of the sanhedrim"; who were sent at the proper time to reap the sheaf of the first fruits, and of others who swore the high priest before the day of atonement b; and of שלוחי מצוה, "the messengers of the commandment" c; who went to hear the exposition (of the traditions) and visit the head of the captivity:and the glory of Christ: meaning either that the churches were the glory of Christ, in whom he is glorified, where his glory is seen, and his presence enjoyed; or rather the messengers of them, on whom the image of Christ was stamped, who faithfully performed the work of Christ, in all things sought his glory and not their own; and in and by whom his glory was displayed, and held forth to others.z T. Bab. Sota, fol. 37. 2. Tosephot Beracot, fol. 34. 1. Misn. Beracot, c. 5. sect. 5. a Misn. Menachot, c. 10. 3. b Misn. Yoma, c. 1. 5. c T. Bab. Succa, fol. 26. 1.