14-16. And as Moses, c.—Here
	now we have the "heavenly things," as before the "earthly,"
	but under a veil, for the reason mentioned in  :-. The crucifixion of Messiah is twice after this veiled under
	the same lively term—"uplifting," John 8:28
John 12:32; John 12:33.
	Here it is still further veiled—though to us who know what it
	means, rendered vastly more instructive—by reference to the brazen
	serpent. The venom of the fiery serpents, shooting through the veins
	of the rebellious Israelites, was spreading death through the
	camp—lively emblem of the perishing condition of men by reason of
	sin. In both cases the remedy was divinely provided. In both the way
	of cure strikingly resembled that of the disease. Stung by serpents,
	by a serpent they are healed. By "fiery serpents"
	bitten—serpents, probably, with skin spotted fiery red [KURTZ]—the
	instrument of cure is a serpent of brass or copper, having at a
	distance the same appearance. So in redemption, as by man came
	death, by Man also comes life—Man, too, "in the likeness of
	sinful flesh" (Romans 8:3),
	differing in nothing outward and apparent from those
	who, pervaded by the poison of the serpent, were ready to perish. But
	as the uplifted serpent had none of the venom of which the
	serpent-bitten people were dying, so while the whole human family
	were perishing of the deadly wound inflicted on it by the old
	serpent, "the Second Man," who arose over humanity with
	healing in His wings, was without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing.
	In both cases the remedy is conspicuously displayed; in the
	one case on a pole, in the other on the cross, to "draw all men
	unto Him" (John 12:32). In
	both cases it is by directing the eye to the uplifted Remedy
	that the cure is effected; in the one case the bodily eye, in the
	other the gaze of the soul by "believing in Him," as in
	that glorious ancient proclamation—"Look unto me and be
	ye saved, all the ends of the earth," &c. (John 12:32- :). Both methods are stumbling to human reason. What, to any
	thinking Israelite, could seem more unlikely than that a deadly
	poison should be dried up in his body by simply looking on a reptile
	of brass? Such a stumbling-block to the Jews and to the Greeks
	foolishness was faith in the crucified Nazarene as a way of
	deliverance from eternal perdition. Yet was the warrant in both cases
	to expect a cure equally rational and well grounded. As the serpent
	was God's ordinance for the cure of every bitten Israelite, so
	is Christ for the salvation of every perishing sinner—the one
	however a purely arbitrary ordinance, the other divinely
	adapted to man's complicated maladies. In both cases the
	efficacy is the same. As one simple look at the serpent, however
	distant and however weak, brought an instantaneous cure, even so,
	real faith in the Lord Jesus, however tremulous, however distant—be
	it but real faith—brings certain and instant healing to the
	perishing soul. In a word, the consequences of disobedience are the
	same in both. Doubtless many bitten Israelites, galling as their case
	was, would reason rather than obey, would speculate
	on the absurdity of expecting the bite of a living serpent to be
	cured by looking at a piece of dead metal in the shape of
	one—speculate thus till they died. Alas! is not salvation by
	a crucified Redeemer subjected to like treatment? Has the offense of
	the cross" yet ceased? (Compare John 12:32- :).