9. Translate, "As a widow
	(that is, of the ecclesiastical order of widowhood; a kind of
	female presbytery), let none be enrolled (in the catalogue)
	who is less than sixty years old." These were not deaconesses,
	who were chosen at a younger age (forty was the age fixed at the
	Council of Chalcedon), and who had virgins (in a later age called
	widows) as well as widows among them, but a band of widows set
	apart, though not yet formally and finally, to the service of God and
	the Church. Traces of such a class appear in  :-. Dorcas herself was such a one. As it was expedient (see on
	1 Timothy 3:2; 1 Timothy 3:2- :) that the presbyter or bishop should have been but once
	married, so also in her case. There is a transition here to a new
	subject. The reference here cannot be, as in 1 Timothy 3:2- :, to providing Church sustenance for them. For the
	restriction to widows above sixty would then be needless and harsh,
	since many widows might be in need of help at a much earlier age; as
	also the rule that the widow must not have been twice
	married, especially since he himself, below (1 Timothy 3:2- :) enjoins the younger widows to marry again; as also that she
	must have brought up children. Moreover, 1 Timothy 3:2- : presupposes some competence, at least in past times, and so
	poor widows would be excluded, the very class requiring charity.
	Also, 1 Timothy 5:11 would then be
	senseless, for then their remarrying would be a benefit, not an
	injury, to the Church, as relieving it of the burden of their
	sustenance. TERTULLIAN [On
	the Veiling of Virgins, 9], HERMAS
	[Shepherd, 1.2], and CHRYSOSTOM
	[Homily, 31], mention such an order of ecclesiastical
	widowhood, each one not less than sixty years old, and resembling the
	presbyters in the respect paid to them, and in some of their duties;
	they ministered with sympathizing counsel to other widows and to
	orphans, a ministry to which their own experimental knowledge of the
	feelings and sufferings of the bereaved adapted them, and had a
	general supervision of their sex. Age was doubtless a
	requisite in presbyters, as it is here stated to have been in
	presbyteresses, with a view to their influence on the younger
	persons of their sex They were supported by the Church, but not the
	only widows so supported (1 Timothy 5:3;
	1 Timothy 5:4). 
	wife of one man—in
	order not to throw a stumbling-block in the way of Jews and heathen,
	who regarded with disfavor second marriages (see on 1 Timothy 5:4- :; Titus 1:6). This is the
	force of "blameless," giving no offense, even in matters
	indifferent.