 30. ]  But (contrast to the boasting just spoken of)  of Him are ye (from Him ye, who once were as οὐκ ὄντα , ἐστέ . He is the author of your spiritual life) in (in union with)  Christ Jesus, Who was made (not ‘is made:’ see reff. On γενήθη see 1Th 1:5 note)  to us from God wisdom (standing us in stead of all earthly wisdom and raising us above it by being ἀπὸ θεοῦ ; Wisdom in His incarnation, in His life of obedience, in His teaching, in His death of atonement, in His glorification and sending of the Spirit: and not only Wisdom, but all that we can want to purify us from guilt, to give us righteousness before God, to sanctify us after His likeness, (  and )  both righteousness (the source of our justification before God),  and sanctification (by His Spirit; observe the  τε καί , implying that in these two, δικαιος . and ἁγιασμ ., the Christian life is complete that they are so joined as to form one whole  our righteousness as well as our sanctification . As Bisping well remarks, “ δικ . and ἁγ . are closely joined by the τε ( καί ) and form but one idea, that of Christian justification: δικαιοσύνη the negative side, in Christ’s justifying work ἁγιασμός the positive, sanctification, the imparting to us of sanctifying grace”),  and redemption (by satisfaction made for our sin, reff.: or perhaps  deliverance , from all evil, and especially from eternal death, as Romans 8:23 ; but I prefer the other). The foregoing construction of the sentence is justified, (1) as regards ἀπὸ θεοῦ belonging to ἐγενήθη , and not to σοφία , by the position of ἡμῖν , which has been altered in rec. to connect σοφία with ἀπὸ θ ., (2) as regards the whole four substantives being co-ordinate, and not the last three merely explicative of σοφία , by the usage of τε καί καί , e.g. Herod. i. 23, διθύραμβον πρῶτον ἀνθρώπων τῶν ἡμεῖς ἴδμεν ποιήσαντά τε καὶ ὀνομάσαντα καὶ διδάξαντα , and Hom. Od. ο . 78, ἀμφότερον , κῦδός τε καὶ ἀγλαΐη καὶ ὄνειαρ , so that (see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 103; Donaldson, Gr. Gram. 551) the words coupled by τε καί (compare the exegesis above) rank as  but one with regard to those coupled to them by καί , compare  ἀμφότερον above. Hence these  three cannot be under one category, as explicative of σοφία , but must be thus ranged: σοφία δικαιοσύνη τε καὶ ἁγιασμός , καὶ ἀπολύτρωσις .