 12. ]  λέγω δὲ τοῦτο ὅτι , not, ‘  I say this because ,’ but (see reff.)  I mean this, that …
	 ἕκαστ  .   ὑμ  .   λέγ .] The meaning is clear, but the form of expression not strictly accurate, the ἕκαστος being a  different person in each case . Accurately expressed it would run thus, ὅτι πάντες τοιοῦτό τι λέγετε , ἐγώ εἰμι Π ., ἐγὼ Ἀπολ ., ἐγὼ Κηφ ., ἐγὼ χριστοῦ , or as De W., ὅτι πάντες λ ., ὁ μέν , ἐγώ εἰμι … ὁ δέ , ἐγὼ κ . τ . λ . Respecting the matter of fact to which the verse alludes, I have given references in the Prolegg. § ii. 10, to the principal theories of the German critics, and will only here restate the conclusions which I have there (ib. parr. 5 9) endeavoured to substantiate: (1) that these designations are  not used as pointing to  actual parties formed and subsisting among the Corinthians, but (2) as  representing the SPIRIT WITH WHICH THEY CONTENDED  against one another , being the sayings of  individuals , and  not of parties ( ἕκαστος ὑμῶν λέγει ): q. d. ‘You are all in the habit of alleging against one another, some your special attachment to Paul, some to Apollos, some to Cephas, others to no mere human teacher, but barely to Christ, to the exclusion of us his Apostles.’ (3) That these sayings, while they are not to be made the basis of any hypothesis respecting  definite parties at Corinth,  do nevertheless  hint at matters of fact , and are  not merely ‘exempli gratia:’ and (4) that this view of the verse, which was taken by Chrys., Theodoret, Theophylact, Calv., is  borne out , and indeed  necessitated , by ch. 1 Corinthians 4:6 (see there).
	 ἐγὼ  …   Παύλου ] This profession, of being guided especially  by the words and acts of Paul , would probably belong to those who were the first fruits of, or directly converted under, his ministry. Such persons would contend for his apostolic authority, and maintain doctrinally his teaching,  so far being right ; but, as usual with partisans, would magnify into importance practices and sayings of his which were in themselves indifferent, and forget that theirs was a service of perfect freedom under one Master, even Christ. With these he does not deal  doctrinally in the Epistle, as there was  no need for it : but involves them in the same censure as the rest, and shews them in ch. 2, 3, 4 that he had no such purpose of gaining personal honour among them, but only of building them up in Christ.
	 ἐγὼ Απολλώ ] Apollos (Acts 18:24 ff.) had come to Corinth after the departure of Paul, and being eloquent, might attract some, to whom the bodily presence of Paul seemed weak and his speech contemptible. It would certainly appear that some occasion had been taken by this difference, to set too high a value on external and rhetorical form of putting forth the gospel of Christ. This the Apostle seems to be blaming (in part) in the conclusion of this, and the next chapter. And from ch. 1 Corinthians 16:12 , it would seem likely that Apollos himself had been aware of the abuse of his manner of teaching which had taken place, and was unwilling, by repeating his visit just then, to sanction or increase it.
	 ἐγὼ Κηφᾶ ] All we can say in possible explanation of this, is, that as Peter was the  Apostle of the circumcision , as we know from Galatians 2:11 ff. that his course of action on one occasion was reprehended by Paul, and as that course of action no doubt had influence and found followers, it is very conceivable that some of those who in Corinth lightly esteemed Paul, might take advantage of this honoured name, and cite against the Christian liberty taught by their own spiritual founder, the stricter practice of Peter. If so, these persons would be mainly found among the Jewish converts or Judaizers; and the matters treated in ch. 7 11:1, may have been subjects of doubt mainly with these persons.
	 ἐγὼ δὲ χριστοῦ ] A rendering has been proposed (Estius, al.) which need only be mentioned to be rejected: viz. that Paul having mentioned the three parties, then breaks of, and adds,  in his own person , ἐγὼ δὲ ( Παῦλος ), χριστοῦ ( εἰμι ) [not of any of these preceding]. Beza represents this as Chrysostom’s view, but it is not: οὐ τοῦτο ἐνεκάλει , ὅτι τὸν χριστὸν ἑαυτοῖς ἐπεφήμιζον , ἀλλ ʼ ὅτι μὴ πάντες μόνον . οἶμαι δὲ αὐτὸν καὶ οἴκοθεν αὐτὸ προστεθεικέναι βουλόμενον βαρύτερον τὸ ἔγκλημα ποιῆσαι , καὶ δεῖξαι οὕτω καὶ τὸν χριστὸν εἰς μέρος δοθέντα ἕν , εἰ καὶ μὴ οὕτως ἐποίουν τοῦτο ἐκεῖνοι : (Hom. iii. p. 16 f.): meaning by οἴκοθεν , not, as  his own sentiment , but  of his own invention , to shew them the inconsistency of their conduct. The words seem to apply to those who make a merit of  not being attached to any human  teacher , who therefore slighted the apostleship of Paul. To them frequent allusion seems to be made in this and in the second Epistle, and more especially in 2 Corinthians 10:7-11 .
	For a more detailed discussion of the whole subject, see Prolegg. as above, and Dr. Davidson’s Introd. to the N. T. ii. 222 ff.