 2 .] The remarks of Calvin on  τῇ ἐκκλ  .   τ  .   θεοῦ , κ . τ . λ . are admirable: “Mirum forsan videri queat, cur eam hominum multitudinem vocet Ecclesiam Dei, in qua tot morbi invaluerant, ut Satan illic potius regnum occuparet quam Deus. Certum est autem, eum noluisse blandiri Corinthiis: loquitur enim ex Dei Spiritu, qui adulari non solet. Atqui inter tot inquinamenta qualis amplius eminet Ecclesiæ facies? Respondeo, … utcunque multa vitia obrepissent, et variæ corruptelæ tam doctrinæ quam morum, extitisse tamen adhuc quædam veræ Ecclesiæ signa. Locus diligenter observandus, ne requiramus in hoc mundo Ecclesiam omni ruga et macula carentem: aut protinus abdicemus hoc titulo quemvis cœtum in quo non omnia votis nostris respondeant. Est enim hæc periculosa tentatio, nullam Ecclesiam putare ubi non appareat perfecta puritas. Nam quicunque hac occupatus fuerit, necesse tandem erit, ut discessione ab omnibus aliis facta, solus sibi sanctus videatur in mundo, aut peculiarem sectam cum paucis hypocritis instituat. Quid ergo causæ habuit Paulus, cur Ecclesiam Corinthi agnosceret? nempe quia Evangelii doctrinam, Baptismum, Cœnam Domini, quibus symbolis censeri debet Ecclesia, apud eos cernebat.” On  τοῦ θεοῦ , Chrys. remarks, οὐ τοῦδε καὶ τοῦδε , ἀλλὰ τοῦ θεοῦ , and similarly Theophyl., taking the expression as addressed to the Corinthians to remind them of their position as a congregation belonging to GOD, and  not to any head of a party . Perhaps this is too refined, the words ἡ ἐκκλ . τ . θεοῦ being so usual with St. Paul, see reff.
	The harshness of the position of ἡγιασμένοις ἐν χρ . Ἰης . is in favour of its being the original one:  hallowed (i.e. dedicated)  to God in (in union with and by means of)  Jesus Christ .
	 τῇ οὔσῃ ‘which exists,’ ‘is found, at Corinth.’ So ἐν Ἀντιοχ . κατὰ τὴν οὖσαν ἐκκλησίαν , Acts 13:1 .
	 κλητοῖς ἁγίοις ] See Romans 1:7 , note.
	 σὺν πᾶσιν κ . τ . λ .] These words do not belong to the designations just preceding, = ‘as are all,’ &c., but form part of the  address of the Epistle, so that these πάντες οἱ ἐπικαλ . are partakers with the Corinthians in it. They form a weighty and precious addition, made here doubtless to shew the Corinthians, that membership of God’s Holy Catholic Church consisted not in being planted, or presided over by Paul, Apollos, or Cephas (or their successors), but in  calling on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ . The Church of England has adopted from this verse her solemn explanation of the term, in the ‘prayer for all sorts and conditions of men:’ “More especially, we pray for the good estate of  the Catholic Church ; that it may be so guided and governed by thy good Spirit, that  all who profess and call themselves Christians may be led into the way of truth, and hold the faith in unity of spirit, in the bond of peace, and in righteousness of life.”
	 ἐπικαλ  . ] not ‘  calling themselves by ’ (though in sense equivalent to this, for they who  call upon Christ,  call themselves by His Name): the phrase ἐπικαλεῖσθαι τὸ ὄνομα τοῦ κυρίου was one adopted from the LXX, as in reff.; the adjunct ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χρ . defines that Lord (Jehovah) on whom the Christians called, to be Jesus Christ, and is a direct testimony to the divine worship of Jesus Christ, as universal in the church. The ὄνομα ἐπικληθὲν ἐφ ʼ ὑμᾶς ( Jam 2:7 ) is not to the point, the construction being different.
	 ἐν παντὶ τόπ  .   αὐτ  . [  τε  ]   κ  .   ἡμ .]  In every place, both theirs (in their country, wherever that may be)  and ours . This connexion is far better than to join αὐτ . [ τε ] κ . ἡμ . with κυρίῳ , thereby making the first ἡμῶν superfluous.
	 αὐτῶν refers to the πάντες οἱ ἐπικαλ .,  ἡμῶν to Paul, and Sosthenes, and those whom he is addressing. Eichhorn fancied τόπος to mean ‘  a place of assembly: ’ Hug, ‘  a party ’ or ‘  division: ’ Beza, al., would limit the persons spoken of to Achaia: others, to Corinth and Ephesus: but the  simple meaning and  universal reference are far more agreeable to the spirit of the passage. I may as well once for all premise, that many of the German expositors have been constantly misled in their interpretations by what I believe to be a mistaken view of 1 Corinthians 1:12 , and the supposed Corinthian parties. See note there.