<b> 25.</b>] The purpose of this verse seems to he to assert and vindicate the fragmentary character of the Gospel, considered merely as an historical narrative:—for that the doings of the Lord were so many,—His life so rich in matter of record,—that in a popular hyperbole, we can hardly imagine the world containing them all, if singly written down; thus setting forth the superfluity and cumbrousness of any thing like a perfect detail, in the strongest terms,—and in terms which certainly look as if fault had been found with this Gospel for want of completeness, by some objectors.<br><br> The reader will have perceived in the foregoing comment on the chapter a manifest leaning to the belief that it was written by St. John himself.<i> Of this I am fully convinced</i>. In every part of it, his hand is plain and unmistakeable: in every part of it, his character and spirit is manifested in a way which none but the most biassed can fail to recognize. I believe it to have been added by him, some years probably after the completion of the Gospel; partly perhaps to record the important miracle of the second draught of fishes, so full of spiritual instruction, and the interesting account of the sayings of the Lord to Peter;—but principally to meet the error which was becoming prevalent concerning himself. In order to do this, he gives a complete account, with all minute details,—even to the number of the fish caught,—of the circumstances preceding the conversation,—and the very words of the Lord Himself: not pretending to put a meaning on those words, but merely asserting that they announced no such thing as that he should not die. Surely nothing can be more natural than this.<br><br> External evidence completely tallies with this view. The chapter is contained in<i> all the principal</i> MSS.; and there is no greater variety of reading than usual. In these respects it differs remarkably from John vii. 53—viii. 11, and indeed from even Mark xvi. 9–20. Internal evidence of style and diction is nearly balanced. It certainly contains several words and constructions not met with elsewhere in John (see these noticed in my Greek Test.); but, on the other hand, the whole cast of it is his;—the coupling particles are his;—the train of thought, and manner of narration. And all allowance should be made for the double alteration of style of writing which would be likely to be brought about, by lapse of time, and by the very nature of an appendix,—a fragment,—not forming part of a whole written continuously, but standing by itself. The last two verses, from their contents, we might expect to have more of the epistolary form; and accordingly we find them singularly in style resembling the Epistles of John.