 15.   ὅτε οὖν ἠρ  . ] There appears to have been nothing said during the meal. Surely every word would have been recorded. One great object of this appearance, observes Stier, certainly was the confirmation, and encouragement of the “  fisher of men ,” in his apostolic office.
	 Σίμων Ἰωάννου ] A reminiscence probably of his own name and parentage, as distinguished from his apostolic name of honour, Cephas, or Peter, see ch. John 1:43 . Thus we have Σ . βαριωνᾶ , Matthew 16:17 , connected with the mention of his natural state of flesh and blood, which had not revealed to him the great truth just confessed and Luke 22:31 , “Simon, Simon,” when he is reminded of his natural weakness. See also Mark 14:37 , and Matthew 17:25 , where the significance is not so plain.
	 πλέον τούτων ]  more than these thy fellow-disciples: compare Matthew 26:33 ; Mark 14:29 , “Though  all should be offended, yet not I.” That John does not record this saying, makes no difficulty here; nor does it tell against the genuineness of this appendix to the Gospel. The narrator tells that which he heard the Lord say, and tells it faithfully and literally. That it coincides with what Peter is related to have said elsewhere, is a proof of the  authenticity , not of the  connexion , of the two accounts.
	 τούτων has been strangely enough understood (Whitby, Bolten) of the  fish , or the “employment and furniture of a fisherman:” Olshausen sees a reference to the pre-eminence given to Peter, Matthew 16:19 , and regards the words as implying that on that account he really did love Jesus more than the rest; but surely this is most improbable, and the other explanation the only likely or true one. Perhaps there is also a slight reference to his present just-shewn zeal, in leaping from the ship first to meet the Lord. ‘Has thy past conduct to Me truly borne out thy former and present warmth of love to Me above these thy fellows?’ “Mira Christi sapientia, qui tam paucis vocibus efficit, ut Petrus et sibi satisfaceret, quem ter negaverat, et collegis quibus se prætulerat; exemplum dans disciplinæ ecclesiasticæ.” Grot.
	Peter’s answer shews that he understood the question as above. He says nothing of the πλέον τούτων but dropping all comparison of himself with others, humbly refers to the Searcher of hearts the genuineness of his love, however the past may seem to have called it in question.
	The distinction between  ἀγαπᾶν and  φιλεῖν must not here be lost sight of, nor must we superficially say with Grotius, “Promiscue hic usurpavit Johannes ἀγαπᾶν et φιλεῖν ut mox βόσκειν et ποιμαίνειν (see below). Neque hic quærendæ sunt subtilitates.” If so, why do the Lord’s two first questions contain ἀγαπᾷς while Peter’s answers have φιλῶ whereas the third time the question and answer both have φιλεῖν ? This does not look like accident.
	The distinction seems to be that ἀγαπᾶν is more used of that reverential love, grounded on high graces of character, which is borne towards God and man by the child of God; whereas φιλεῖν expresses more the personal love of human affection. Peter therefore uses a less exalted word, and one implying a consciousness of his own weakness, but a persuasion and deep feeling of personal love. (Hence it will be seen that in the sublimest relations, where, all perfections existing, love can  only be personal , φιλεῖν only can be used, see ch. John 5:20 .) Then in the third question, the Lord adopts the word of Peter’s answer, the closer to press the meaning of it home to him.
	The  σὺ οἶδας  , the  two first times, seems to refer to the Lord’s  personal knowledge of Peter’s heart in His having given him that name, ch. John 1:43 , in Matthew 16:17 ; Luke 22:31 , and the announcement of his denial of Him. The  last time, he widens this assertion ‘Thou knowest  me ,’ into ‘Thou knowest  all things ,’ being grieved at the repetition of a question which brought this Omniscience so painfully to his mind.
	 βόσκε τὰ ἀρν  .   μου ] This and the following answers of the Lord can hardly be regarded as the  reinstating of Peter in his apostolic office, for there is no record of his ever having lost it: but as a further and higher setting forth of it than that first one Matthew 4:18 ff., both as belonging to all of them on the present occasion, and as tending to comfort Peter’s own mind after his fall, and reassure him of his holding the same place among the Apostles as before, owing to the gracious forgiveness of his Lord.
	We can hardly with any deep insight into the text hold βόσκειν and ποιμ . to be synonymous (Grot. above, Lücke, De Wette, Trench), or ἀρνία , πρόβατα , and προβάτια . The sayings of the Lord have not surely been so carelessly reported as this would assume. Every thing here speaks for a  gradation of meaning. The variety of reading certainly makes it difficult to point out exactly the steps of that gradation, and unnecessary to follow the various interpreters in their assignment of them: but that there  is such , may be seen from Isaiah 40:11 ; 1 John 2:12-13 . Perhaps the  feeding of the lambs was the furnishing the apostolic testimony of the Resurrection and facts of the Lord’s life on earth to the first converts; the  shepherding or ruling  the sheep , the subsequent government of the Church as shewn forth in the early part of the Acts; the  feeding of the προβάτια , the choicest, the loved of the flock, the furnishing the now maturer Church of Christ with the wholesome food of the doctrine contained in his Epistles. But those must strangely miss the whole sense, who dream of an exclusive primatial power here granted or confirmed to him. A sufficient refutation of this silly idea, if it needed any other than the  ἐλυπήθη of this passage, is found in the συμπρεσβύτερος of 1 Peter 5:1 , to this very charge: see note on Matthew 16:17 ff. “Illud, ‘  plus his ’ ( πλέον τούτων ), indicio est, Petrum hic restitui in locum suum, quem amiserat per abnegationem (but see above) simulque  quiddam ei prœ condiscipulis tribui, sed nihil a quo cæteri excludantur. Nam sane etiam hi amabant Jesum. Desinat tandem hoc ad se, et ad se unum rapere, qui nec amat nec pascit, sed depascit, per successionis Petrinæ simulationem. Non magis Roma, quam Hierosolyma aut Antiochia aut quivis alius locus ubi apostolum Petrus egit, Petrum sibi vindicare potest: imo Roma minime, caput  gentium : nam Petrus erat in apostolis  circumcisionis . Unum Romæ proprium est, quod apostolorum, etiam Petri sanguis in ea reperietur.” Bengel.