 18. ] The end of his pastoral office is announced to him: a proof of the πάντα οἶδας which he had just confessed; a contrast to the denial of which he had just been reminded; a proof to be hereafter given of the here recognized genuineness of that love which he had been professing. There is no implied  question , as Lücke thinks: the futures are prophetic.
	 ἀμὴν ἀμήν ] John’s manner again.
	 ὅτε ἦς νεώτερος [may be merely] in contrast to  ὅταν δὲ γηρ  . [Or] it perhaps includes his life up to the time prophesied of.
	 ἐζώνν  .   σ  ., as in John 21:7 , he had girt his fisher’s coat to him: but not confined in its reference to that girding alone ‘thou girdedst thyself up for My work, and wentest hither and thither but hereafter there shall be a service for thee “paullo constrictior”  ἐκτενεῖς τὰς χ  .   σου  , but not as just now, in swimming; in a more painful manner, on the transverse beam of the cross; and another the executioner shall gird thee, with the cords binding to the cross’ (“tunc Petrus ab altero vincitur, cum cruci adstringitur,” Tertull. Scorp. 15, vol. ii. p. 151). Such is the traditionary account of the death of Peter, Euseb. ii. 25; iii. 1, where see notes in Heinichen’s edn. Cf. also Prolegg. to 1 Pet. § ii. 9 ff.
	 οἴσει  , viz. in the lifting up after the fastening to the cross or perhaps, by a ὕστερον πρότερον , in making thee go the way to death, bearing thy cross.
	 ὅπου οὐ θέλ  . ] “Quis enim vult mori? Prorsus nemo: et ita nemo ut B. Petro diceretur, Alter te cinget, et feret quo tu non vis.” Aug [260] Serm. clxxiii. 2.
	 [260]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	Prof. Bleek (Beiträge zur Evangelien-kritik, p. 235, note) suggests an interpretation of this prophecy which is surely contrary to John 21:19 : that the former part, ὅτε ἦς ν .… applies to the life of Peter before his calling, the latter ἐκτενεῖς … to his life in the service of the Lord, who is the ἄλλος who was to strengthen him for his work ( ζώσει ), that he was to stretch out his hands in the sense of his own weakness, not merely in the feebleness of old age (in prayer?), and finally this ἄλλος , the Lord whom he served, would carry him whither he would not, i.e. to a death of martyrdom. But this says nothing of  ποίῳ θανάτῳ , on which the stress evidently is, and which Bleek, while he recognizes, endeavours to get rid of by strangely supposing the idea to have arisen after the death of Peter.