 22. ] The words  τί πρὸς σέ  ; imply a rebuke; not perhaps however so sharp a one as has been sometimes seen in them. They remind Peter of the distinctness of each man’s position and duty before the Lord; and the  σύ μοι ἀκ  ., which follows, directs his view along that course of duty and suffering, which was appointed for him by his Divine Master. Notice the emphatic expression of σύ , and the emphatic position of μοι : q. d. ‘  His appointed lot is no element in  thy onward course: it is ME that  thou must follow.’
	On the  ἐὰν θέλω  …, three opinions have been held (for that which refers the words to John’s remaining where he then was, on the shore, till the Lord returned from His colloquy with Peter, is not worth more than cursory mention): (1) that of Aug [262] , Maldon., Grot., Lampe, Olsh., &c. (it being allowed on all hands, that μένειν means to  remain in this life: see reff. and ch. Joh 12:34 ), “If I will that he remain till I fetch him,” i.e. by a  natural death . But this is frigid, and besides inapplicable here. Peter’s death, although by the hands of an ἄλλος , was just as much the Lord’s ‘  coming for him ,’ as John’s, and there would thus be no contrast. (2) That that ‘coming of the Lord’ is meant which is so often in the three Gospels alluded to (see especially notes on Matthew 24:0 .), viz. the establishment in full of the dispensation of the Kingdom by the destruction of the nation and temple of the Jews. This is the view of some mentioned by Theophyl., of Bengel (see below), Stier, Dräseke, Jacobi, &c. and is upheld by the similar place, Matthew 16:28 . (3) That the Lord here only puts a case, “Even should I will that he remain upon earth till My last coming what would that be to thee?” This view is upheld by Trench, Miracles, p. 466, edn. 2; but I think must be rejected on maturer consideration of the character of the words of our Lord, in whose mouth such a mere hypothetical saying would be strangely incongruous, especially in these last solemn days of his presence on earth.
	 [262]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	The second view seems then to remain, and I adopt it with some qualification.
	At the destruction of Jerusalem began that mighty series of events of which the Apocalypse is the prophetic record, and which is in the complex known as the ‘COMING OF THE LORD,’ ending, as it shall, with His glorious and personal Advent. This the beloved Apostle alone lived to see, according to ancient and undoubted tradition (Euseb. H. E. iii. 23). When De Wette (whom Lücke in the main follows: see also Mr. Elliott, Apocal. Alf. p. 160) calls this interpretation  ganz nichtig , and would interpret this answer by the current idea in apostolic times, that His coming was very near, he is assuming (1) that this  was the idea of the Apostles themselves (see 2 Thessalonians 2:2-3 ; 2 Peter 3:3-4 ; 2Pe 3:8-9 ); (2) that this answer is not that of our Lord, but apocryphal. If all that he says about the early expectations of the Church were granted, it would not follow that the view above taken is erroneous. And as to the chapter having been written after the death of John and the destruction of Jerusalem, see below.