5. tasted the good word of
	God—distinct from "tasted OF
	(genitive) the heavenly gift"; we do not yet enjoy all
	the fulness of Christ, but only have a taste OF
	Him, the heavenly gift now; but believers may taste the whole
	word (accusative case) of God already, namely, God's "good word
	of promise." The Old Testament promise of Canaan to
	Israel typified "the good word of God's" promise of the
	heavenly rest (Hebrews 4:1-16).
	Therefore, there immediately follows the clause, "the powers of
	the world to come." As "enlightening" and "tasting
	of the heavenly gift," Christ, the Bread of Life, answers to
	FAITH: so "made
	partakers of the Holy Ghost," to CHARITY,
	which is the first-fruit of the Spirit: and "tasted the good
	word of God, and the powers of the world to come," to
	HOPE. Thus the triad of
	privileges answers to the Trinity, the Father, Son, and Spirit, in
	their respective works toward us. "The world to come," is
	the Christian dispensation, viewed especially in its future
	glories, though already begun in grace here. The world to come
	thus stands in contrast to course of this world, altogether
	disorganized because God is not its spring of action and end. By
	faith, Christians make the world to come a present reality, though
	but a foretaste of the perfect future. The powers of this new
	spiritual world, partly exhibited in outward miracles at that time,
	and then, as now, especially consisting in the Spirit's inward
	quickening influences are the earnest of the coming inheritance
	above, and lead the believer who gives himself up to the Spirit to
	seek to live as the angels, to sit with Christ in heavenly places, to
	set the affections on things above, and not on things on earth, and
	to look for Christ's coming and the full manifestation of the world
	to come. This "world to come," in its future aspect, thus
	corresponds to "resurrection of the dead and eternal life"
	(Hebrews 6:2), the first
	Christian principles which the Hebrew believers had been taught, by
	the Christian light being thrown back on their Old Testament for
	their instruction (see on Hebrews 6:2- :). "The world to come," which, as to its "powers,"
	exists already in the redeemed, will pass into a fully realized fact
	at Christ's coming (Colossians 3:4).