6. If—Greek, "And
	(yet) have fallen away"; compare a less extreme falling
	or declension, Galatians 5:4, "Ye
	are fallen from grace." Here an entire and wilful apostasy is
	meant; the Hebrews had not yet so fallen away; but he warns them that
	such would be the final result of retrogression, if, instead of
	"going on to perfection," they should need to learn again
	the first principles of Christianity (Galatians 5:4- :). 
	to renew them again—They
	have been "once" (Hebrews 6:4)
	already renewed, or made anew, and now they need to be
	"renewed" over "again." 
	crucify to themselves the Son
	of God—"are crucifiying to themselves" Christ,
	instead of, like Paul, crucifying the world unto them by the cross
	of Christ (Galatians 6:14). So in
	Hebrews 10:29, "trodden under
	foot the Son of God, and counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith
	. . . sanctified, an unholy thing." "The Son of God,"
	marking His dignity, shows the greatness of their offense. 
	put him to an open
	shame—literally, "make a public example of" Him, as
	if He were a malefactor suspended on a tree. What the carnal Israel
	did outwardly, those who fall away from light do inwardly, they
	virtually crucify again the Son of God; "they tear him out of
	the recesses of their hearts where He had fixed His abode and exhibit
	Him to the open scoffs of the world as something powerless and
	common" [BLEEK in
	ALFORD]. The Montanists
	and Novatians used this passage to justify the lasting exclusion from
	the Church of those who had once lapsed. The Catholic Church always
	opposed this view, and readmitted the lapsed on their repentance, but
	did not rebaptize them. This passage implies that persons may be in
	some sense "renewed," and yet fall away finally; for the
	words, "renew again," imply that they have been, in
	some sense, not the full sense, ONCE
	RENEWED by the Holy Ghost; but certainly not that they are
	"the elect," for these can never fall away, being chosen
	unto everlasting life (John 10:28).
	The elect abide in Christ, hear and continuously obey His voice, and
	do not fall away. He who abides not in Christ, is cast forth as a
	withered branch; but he who abides in Him becomes more and more free
	from sin; the wicked one cannot touch him; and he by faith overcomes
	the world. A temporary faith is possible, without one thereby
	being constituted one of the elect (Mark 4:16;
	Mark 4:17). At the same time it
	does not limit God's grace, as if it were "impossible" for
	God to reclaim even such a hardened rebel so as yet to look on
	Him whom he has pierced. The impossibility rests in their having
	known in themselves once the power of Christ's sacrifice, and yet now
	rejecting it; there cannot possibly be any new means devised
	for their renewal afresh, and the means provided by God's love they
	now, after experience of them, deliberately and continuously reject;
	their conscience being served, and they "twice dead" (Mark 4:17- :), are now past hope, except by a miracle of God's grace. "It
	is the curse of evil eternally to propagate evil" [THOLUCK].
	"He who is led into the whole (?) compass of Christian
	experiences, may yet cease to abide in them; he who abides not in
	them, was, at the very time when he had those objective experiences,
	not subjectively true to them; otherwise there would have been
	fulfilled in him, "Whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he
	shall have more abundance" (Mark 4:17- :), so that he would have abided in them and not have fallen
	away" [THOLUCK]. Such
	a one was never truly a Spirit-led disciple of Christ (Mark 4:17- :). The sin against the Holy Ghost, though somewhat
	similar, is not identical with this sin; for that sin may be
	committed by those outside the Church (as in Matthew 12:24;
	Matthew 12:31; Matthew 12:32);
	this, only by those inside.