Matthew 28:20.  Teaching them. This teaching is a continued process, which partly precedes and partly follows baptism. As the eleven Apostles and their companions could not do all this, we find here the institution of a continuous baptizing and teaching. That this involved an office, arises not only from the necessity of the case, but from the fact that the Apostles are addressed primarily, though not exclusively.
	 All things whatsoever I commanded you. The doctrines and precepts of Christ, nothing less and nothing more, are the proper subjects of Christian faith and practice. In these, however, are included the Old Testament which He repeatedly confirms, and the further revelations He made to those personally ‘commanded’ by Him, including the Apostle Paul.
	 And, lo. To encourage them.
	 I am with you. A proof of Christ’s Divinity. By His Providence, His Spirit, His life; for the idea of vital union with Him had already been declared (John 14:20; John 15:5; John 16:22). The simple language of the passage, as well as the facts of Christian history, forbid our limiting this promise to one set of men, claiming to be successors of the Apostles. There is, of course, involved a special promise to those engaged in the fulfilling of the previous command. The Apostles, the organizers of the Church, arranged about the appointment of those who should perform this service. But in their peculiar office they could have no successors, and in the organization of the Church they were governed not so much by formal rules as by the exigencies of the case. The promise of Christ’s abiding presence is to His people as individuals constituting a whole, those in responsible stations receiving special grace only as they have special needs which they present on the plea of this promise.
	 Alway. Literally: ‘all the days.’ Never absent a single day, however dark, until the last when He shall come again.
	 Unto the end of the world. This does not set a term to Christ’s presence, but to His invisible and temporal presence, which will be exchanged for His visible and eternal presence at His coming. Now Christ is with us; then, when He shall appear in glory, we shall be with Him where He is (1 John 3:2). The fact of the Ascension is clearly implied here, as well as in other passages of this Gospel, as chap. Matthew 22:44; Matthew 24:30; Matthew 25:14; Matthew 25:31; Matthew 26:64. The word ‘Amen’ was added afterwards. The Gospel does not end abruptly, but appropriately; simply and yet majestically. Evidently this interview is recorded by the Evangelist, as implying the institution of the Christian Church, distinct from Judaism, an important point for readers of Jewish origin. If men now seek for the Apostolic Church, let them remember Christ’s words as recorded by an Apostle: and they will find it where Christ is. This glorious fact of the unbroken succession of Christ’s life through all ages of Christendom is the true doctrine of the Apostolic succession, and is not only an irresistible evidence of Christianity, but an unfailing source of strength and encouragement to the believer.
	