 14, 15 .]  Nevertheless I have against thee a few things (not “a little matter,” as Luth., Hengstb.; nor does ὀλίγα imply that more than one matter is blamed, as Beng.: nor is it used by  litotes , to mean “graviter de te conqueror,” as Heinr. and Ebrard; nor is any reference to be thought of to the sins of Christ’s people having been removed by His atonement, and thus spoken of lightly by Him, as Aretius: but is used as a word of comparison with the far greater number of approved things which remained, and is plural, inasmuch as ὀλίγον would refer, not to the objective fewness, but to the subjective unimportance, of the grounds of complaint; which latter was not so. This use of the plural comes under the case treated by Winer (§ 27. 2), where only one thing is really meant, but the writer speaks of that one generically; e. g. τεθνήκασιν οἱ ζητοῦντες τὴν ψυχ . τοῦ παιδίου , Matthew 2:20 , where Herod only is meant. And so De Wette and Düsterd.):  thou hast there (in Pergamum: the locality is specified probably on account of the description which has been just given of it as the place where a faithful martyr had suffered unto death)  men holding (cf.  κρατεῖς τὸ ὄν . μου above)  the teaching of Balaam (  διδαχήν : not simply as De W., “doctrine corresponding to the character of the advice of Balaam,” but used in strict correspondence with ὃς  ἐδίδασκεν following: that which a man teaches being his doctrine. And κρατεῖν this διδαχήν , is to follow the teaching),  who taught Balak (the dat. seems to be a Hebraism, לִמֵּד לִ , Job 21:22 ; so Ewald, De W., Ebrard, Düsterd.: not a dat. commodi, “for Balak” to serve his purpose, understanding “  men ” as an object after ἐδίδασκεν , as Hengstb. Certainly it is not expressly asserted in Num 31:16 that it was  Balak whom Balaam advised to use this agency against Israel: but the narrative almost implies it: Balak was in power, and was the most likely person to authorize and put in force the scheme. And so Josephus, Antt. iv. 6. 6, makes Balaam on departing call to him τόν τε Βάλακον καὶ τοὺς ἄρχοντας τῶν Μαδιανιτῶν , and give them the advice)  to put a stumbling-block (properly σκανδάληθρον : see reff., and a minute investigation of the word by Trench in loc.: an occasion of sin)  before (in the way, or before the face of)  the sons of Israel, to eat (i. e. inducing them to eat. See var. readd.)  things offered to idols (from Numbers 25:1-2 , it was not only participation in things offered to idols, but the actual offering sacrifices to them, of which the children of Israel were guilty. But seeing that the  participation was that which was common to both, our Lord takes that as the point to be brought forward: “satis hic habuit Christus id dicere, quod illi Israelitæ cum Nicolaitis habebant commune.” Grot.)  and to commit fornication .