 22 .]  Behold (arrests attention, and prepares the way for something unexpected and terrible),  I cast her (evidently against her will: but there is not necessarily violence in the word: it is the ordinary verb for being “cast” on a bed of sickness: see reff. and Matthew 8:6 ; Mat 8:14 )  into a bed ( ἀντὶ τοῦ , εἰς ἀῤῥωστίαν , Areth [38] : will change her bed of whoredom into a bed of anguish: see Psalms 41:3 . So most Commentators. Perhaps the threat has reference to a future pestilence. Bed [39] , Lyra, al., understand the bed to be “infernalis pœna,” the latter referring to Isaiah 14:11 . Ansbert, curiously enough, “severitatis vel audaciæ lectum,” into which God casts his enemies before their destruction),  and those who commit adultery (not now πορνεύοντας , but a more general term, embracing in its wide meaning both the πορνεῦσαι and εἰδωλόθυτα φαγεῖν , and well known as the word used of rebellious and idolatrous Israel, cf. Jeremiah 3:8 ; Jeremiah 5:7 ; Eze 16:32 al.)  together with her μετ ʼ αὐτῆς is not = αὐτήν , so that she should be the ‘conjux adulterii,’ but implies merely participation those who share with her in her adulteries. These μοιχεύοντες μετ ʼ αὐτῆς , as interpreted by the tone with which the rebuke began, will mean, those who by suffering and encouraging her, make themselves partakers of her sin. And this rather favours the idea that not one individual, but a dominant party, is intended. See below)  into great tribulation (this clause forms a kind of parallelism with the former, so that εἰς θλίψιν μεγ . is parallel with εἰς κλίνην . But it is not to be regarded as interpreting κλίνη . Her punishment and that of her children (see below) is one thing; that of the partakers in her adulteries, those in the church who tolerated and encouraged her, another, viz. great tribulation. This is forcibly shewn by the ἔργων αὐτῆς following),  if they do not (aor.: speedily and effectually, shall not have done so by the time which I have in my thoughts)  repent of her (not  their : they are Christ’s servants who are tampering with her temptations and allowing themselves in her works, which are alien from their own spiritual life)  works. And her children (emphatically put forward as distinguished from the last mentioned: q. d., “And as to her children, &c.” These are her proper adherents: not those who suffer her, but those who are begotten of her, and go to constitute her. Some Commentators have vainly dreamt of the slaughter of Ahab’s 70 sons, 2 Kings 10:0 ; but they were not  Jezebel’s children. The historical figure is obviously dropped here)  I will slay with (in, but perhaps merely instrumental: see above, on Rev 2:16 )  death (the expression is probably a rendering of the Heb. מוֹת־יוּמַת , as in Leviticus 20:10 , which the LXX render by θανάτῳ θανατούσθωσαν , and which there occurs in reference to adultery. But we need not, as Hengst., suppose a direct reference to that passage: for there is nothing of adultery here: we have done with τοὺς μοιχεύοντας μετ ʼ αὐτῆς , and are come to the judgment on τὰ τέκνα αὐτῆς ):  and all the churches (this remarkable expression, meaning not, all the Asiatic churches, but all the churches in the world till the end of time, lifts the whole of this threatening and its accompanying encouragements out of proconsular Asia, and gives us a glimpse into the œcumenical character of these messages)  shall know (the fanciful Hengst. imagines a reference in γνώσονται to the false γνῶσις : but in so common and solemn a formula of the O. T., this must surely be out of the question)  that I am he that searcheth the reins and the hearts (which, see reff. is the attribute of God: and therefore of the Son of God. Cf. Rev 2:18 above, and note. Grotius says, “Per  renes intelliguntur desideria, ut et Psalms 139:13 , Jeremiah 12:2 , Proverbs 23:16 ; per  cor , cogitata, 1 Samuel 16:7 ; 1Sa 16:1 Reg. 8:39 al.” But it seems doubtful whether so minute a distinctionis in the words; whether they are not rather a general designation for the whole inward parts of a man):  and I will give to you (‘will render, in My doom of judgment.’ The strain of the Lord’s message is Suddenly changed into a direct address to those threatened)  to each according to your works (  ἔργα , not the mere outward products of the visible life, but the real acts and verities of the inward man, discerned by the piercing eye of the Son of God).
	 [38] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [39] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.