 24 .]  But (contrast to those addressed before)  to you I say, the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as have not (not only do not  hold , but are free from any contact with)  this teaching, such as ( οἵτινες , as usual, classifies)  have not known the depths (deep places, in the resolved form)  of Satan, as they call them (it was the characteristic of the falsely named γνῶσις , to boast of its βάθεα , or depths, of divine things. Iren. ii. 22. 1, p. 146, speaks of those “qui profunda bythi adinvenisse se dicunt:” and ib. 3, p. 147, “profunda Dei adinvenisse se dicentes.” And Tert [40] adv. Valent. 1, vol. ii. p. 538 ff., should by all means be read, as admirably illustrating this expression. He there says, “Elcusinia Valentiniana fecerunt lenocinia, sancta silentio magno, sola taciturnitate cœlestia. Si bona fide quæris, concrete vultu, suspenso supercilio  Altum est , aiunt.” We may safely therefore refer the expression οὐκ ἔγνωσαν τὰ βάθεα to the heretics spoken of. But it is not so clear to whom as their subject the words ὡς λέγουσιν are to be appropriated, and again  whose word τοῦ σατανᾶ is, whether that 1) of our Lord, 2) of the heretics, or 3) of the Christians addressed. If ὡς λέγουσιν belong to the  Christians , then the sense will be, that they, the Christians, called the βάθεα of the heretics, the βάθεα τοῦ σατανᾶ , and were content to profess their ignorance of them. So Andr [41] , Areth [42] , Heinr., Züllig, Ebrard: and so far would be true enough; but the sentence would thus be left very flat and pointless, and altogether inconsistent in its tone with the solemn and pregnant words of the rest of the message. If ὡς λέγουσιν belong to the  heretics , we have our choice between two views of τοῦ σατανᾶ : either 1) that the heretics themselves called their own mysteries τὰ β . τοῦ σατανᾶ . But this, though held by Hengst., and even by Neander, Pfl. u. L. edn. 4, p. 619 note, as a possible alternative, and recently by Trench, can hardly be so, seeing that the words surely would not bear the sense thus assigned to them, viz. that they could go deeper than and outwit Satan in his own kingdom: and seeing moreover, that no such formula, or any resembling it, is found as used by the ancient Gnostic heretics: or 2) that the ὡς λέγουσιν applies only to the word βάθεα , and that, when, according to  their way of speaking, τοῦ θεοῦ should have followed (cf. ref. 1 Cor.), the Lord in indignation substitutes τοῦ σατανᾶ . This has been the sense taken by most Commentators, e. g., Corn.-a-lap., Ribera, Grot., Calov., Wetst., Vitr., Bengel, Wolf, Eichhorn, Ewald, De W., Stern, Düsterd. And it appears to me that this alone comes in any measure up to the requirements of the passage, in intensity of meaning and solemnity, as well as in verisimilitude.
	 [40]  Tertullian , 200
	 [41] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [42] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	I need hardly remark that the rendering which I am sorry to see in Tre-gelles’s very useful little English version of the purer text of the Apoc., “how they speak,” is quite untenable. In the E.V., “as they speak,” is meant to = “as they say:” but for “how they speak” (absol.), λαλοῦσιν would be required),  I cast not upon yon any other burden (it is better, seeing that no τοῦτο or τό follows after πλήν below, not to carry on the sentence as if ἄλλο , πλήν … were closely joined, but to break it off at βάρος : leaving however the πλήν to take it up (see below) by and by. And this being so, to what do the words refer? There can, I imagine, be little doubt as to the answer, if we remember some of the expressions used in the apostolic decree in which these very matters here in question, fornication and abstaining from unholy meats, were the only things forbidden to the Gentile converts. For our Lord here takes up and refers to those very words. In Acts 15:28 , we read ἔδοξεν γὰρ τῷ ἁγίῳ πνεύματι κ . ἡμῖν  μηδὲν πλέον ἐπιτίθεσθαι ὑμῖν βάρος πλὴν τῶν ἐπάναγκες , ἀπέχεσθαι εἰδωλοθύτων κ . αἵματος κ . πνικτῶν κ . πορνείας . This act of simple obedience, and no deep matters beyond their reach, was what the Lord required of them. And this βάρος resolved itself into keeping the faith once delivered to the saints, as enjoined in the next sentence. This view is taken by Bed [43] (2) (in substance: “non ego vobis novam mitto doctrinam: sed quam accepistis, servate in finem;” but he does not mention the allusion), Primas [44] , Lyra, Corn.-a-lap., Stern, Hengst., Düsterd.
	 [43] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [44] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	Grot. al. give a more general meaning, true in part: “jactant illi se rerum multarum cognitione; eam a vobis non exigo.” Bengel understands by βάρος the trouble given them by Jezebel and her followers: Ewald, the punishments about to befall the heretics, which were not to be feared by the Christians: Ebrard similarly, they had had enough trouble already in enduring Jezebel, &c, and should not have any share in her punishment: De Wette, the burden of previous suffering implied in ὑπομονή ; and so Bed [45] (1), “non patiar vos tentari supra quod potestis,” and Beza, understanding βάρος in the sense of “burden,” so often occurring in the prophets when they denounce the divine threatenings. But to my mind the allusion to the apostolic decree is too clear and prominent to allow of any other meaning coming into question: at least any other which sets that entirely aside. Others may be deduced and flow from that one, which have meaning for the church now that those former subjects of controversy have passed away): but (though not (see above) directly and in the same sentence connected with ἄλλο ,  πλήν distinctly looks back to it and takes it up. It is, “  only :” q. d., forget not that the licence just accorded involves this sacred obligation)  that which ye have (cf. ch. Revelation 3:11 ; not to be restricted in its sense to their steadfastness in resisting Jezebel and hers, but representing the sum total of Christian doctrine and hope and privilege; the ἅπαξ παραδοθεῖσα τοῖς ἁγίοις πίστις of Jud 1:3 ),  hold fast (the aor. is more vivid and imperative than would be the present; it sets forth not so much the continuing habit, as the renewed and determined grasp of every intervening moment of the space prescribed)  until the time when I shall come (the  ἄν gives an uncertainty when the time shall be, which we cannot convey in our language).
	 [45] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.