 8 11 .]THE EPISTLE TO THE CHURCH AT SMYRNA. See Prolegg., § iii. 8.  And to the angel of the church in Smyrna (in accordance with the idea of the angel representing the bishop, many of the ancient Commentators have inferred that Polycarp must have been here addressed. Whether this were chronologically possible, must depend on the date which we assign to the writing of the Apocalypse. He was martyred in A.D. 168, 86 years after his conversion, Eus [26] H. E. iv. 15)  write: These things saith the first and the last, who was (became)  dead and revived (see ch. Revelation 1:17-18 , and for this sense of ζῇν , reff. The words here seem to point on to the promise in Rev 2:10-11 ):  I know thy tribulation and thy poverty (in outward wealth, arising probably from the θλῖψις , by the despoiling of the goods of the Christians);  nevertheless thou art rich (spiritually; see reff. To suppose an allusion to the name πολύκαρπος (Hengst.), is in the highest degree fanciful and improbable):  and (I know)  thy calumny from (arising from)  those who profess themselves to be Jews, and they are not, but (  are )  Satan’s synagogue (these slanderers were in all probability actually Jews by birth, but not (see Romans 2:28 ; Matthew 3:9 ; John 8:33 ; 2 Corinthians 11:22 ; Philippians 3:4 ff.) in spiritual reality; the same who ever where, in St. Paul’s time and afterwards, were the most active enemies of the Christians. When Polycarp was martyred, we read ἅπαν τὸ πλῆθος ἐθνῶν τε καὶ Ἰουδαίων τῶν τὴν Σμύρναν κατοικούντων ἀκατασχέτῳ θυμῷ καὶ μεγάλῃ φωνῇ ἐπεβόα : and afterwards when faggots were collecting for the pile, μάλιστα Ἰουδαίων προθύμως , ὡς ἔθος αὐτοῖς , εἰς τοῦτο ὑπουργούντων , Mart. Polyc. c. 12, 13, pp. 1032, 1042. This view is strengthened by the context. Had they been, as some have supposed, e. g. Vitringa, Christians, called Ἰουδαῖοι in a mystical sense, they would hardly have been spoken of as the principal source of calumny against the Church, nor would the collective epithet of  Satan’s synagogue be given to them. Respecting the latter appellation, see some interesting remarks by Trench, N. T. Synonyms, § i. He brings out there, how ἐκκλησία , the nobler word, was chosen by our Lord and His Apostles for the assembly of the called in Christ, while συναγωγή , which is only once found ( Jam 2:2 ) of a Christian assembly (and there, as Düsterd. notes, not with τοῦ θεοῦ , but with ὑμῶν ), was gradually abandoned entirely to the Jews, so that in this, the last book of the canon, such an expression as this can be used. See also his Comm. on the Epistles to the Seven Churches, p. 95. See the opposite in Numbers 16:3 ; Numbers 20:4 ; Numbers 31:16 , συναγωγὴ κυρίου ).
	 [26] Eusebius, Bp. of Cæsarea, 315 320