 26 .]  And (the announcement of reward to the conqueror  now first precedes the proclamation to hear what the Spirit saith to the churches: and is joined,  here alone , by  καί (to the preceding portion of the Epistle; being indeed more closely connected with it in this case than in any of the others; see below)  he that conquereth and he that (by the second  ὁ , this  καί is precluded from being taken as introducing a clause merely epexegetical of νικῶν , as Düsterd., al. Rather must we say, that by it ὁ τηρῶν κ . τ . λ . is included in the class pointed out by ὁ νικῶν )  keepeth to the end (it is remarkable that immediately after the words, so pointedly alluded to above, in the apostolic decree, Acts 15:28 , was added, ἐξ ὧν  διατηροῦντες ἑαυτοὺς εὖ πράξετε )  my works (contrast to τὰ ἔργα  αὐτῆς , Revelation 2:22 ; but extending beyond that contrast to a general and blessed truth.  μου , gen. possess, which belong to Me, are the attributes of Myself and of mine),  I will give to him authority over the nations (compare the ἴσθι ἐξουσίαν ἔχων ἐπάνω δέκα πόλεων in Luke 19:17 , which is the reward of him who obeyed the command πραγματεύσασθε ἐν ᾧ ἔρχομαι . The authority here spoken of is that which shall be conferred on the saints when they shall inherit the earth, and reign with Christ in His Kingdom. It has been gradually realized, as the stone cut out without hands has broken in pieces other kingdoms; but shall only then find its entire fulfilment. Various insufficient meanings have been given: of which one of the most curious is that of Grot., “Evolvam ilium in gradum presbyteri, ut judicet de iis qui non christiane sed ἐθνικῶς vivunt;” who also understands Rev 2:27 below of excommunication, “per gladium hic intelligitur verbum Dei, cujus pars est et excommunicato”),  and he shall govern (lit. “  shepherd .” It is the LXX rendering of the Heb. תְּרֹעֵם ,  break in pieces , which they have taken as תִּרְעֵם ,  shepherd , in ref. Ps. The saying, as rendered by them, is sanctioned by being thrice quoted in this book, see reff.)  them with (see 1Co 4:21 )  a rod of iron (a sceptre of severity: “inflexibili justitia,” as Lyra),  as the vessels of pottery are broken up (  συντρίβεται , are crushed, or shivered, or broken up: the  συν gives the idea of the multitudinous fragments collapsing into an heap: the “broken to shivers” of the E.V. is very good),  as I also have received from my Father (viz. in Psalms 2:9 , in which Psalm it is said υἱός μου εἶ σύ , Revelation 2:7 . The power there conferred on Me, I will delegate to my victorious servant; see Luk 22:29 ).  And I will give to him the star of the morning (it is not easy to say what, in strict exactness, these words import. The interpretations given, even in the Catena, are very various and inconsistent. Andr [46] and Areth [47] understand it of the Lucifer of Isaiah 14:12 , i. e. the devil, whom our Lord saw as lightning fall from heaven, or, as there imported, the King of Babylon, the most powerful monarch on earth; so Züllig. Another meaning in the Catena is τὸν ὑπὸ τοῦ Πέτρου λεχθέντα φώσφορον ἐν ταῖς καρδίαις τῶν πιστῶν ἀνατέλλοντα , 2 Peter 1:19 . Victorinus says, “Primam resurrectionem scilicet promittit.” Primas [48] , Bed [49] , Alcas., Corn.-a-lap., Calov., Vitr., Wolf, Beng., Stern, Ebrard, understand Christ Himself, who, ch. Revelation 22:16 , declares Himself to be ὁ ἀστὴρ ὁ λαμπρός , ὁ πρωϊνός : and doubtless, as has been before remarked on the fruit of the tree of life, Revelation 2:7 , and on the hidden manna, Revelation 2:17 , in the mystical sense, Christ Himself is the sum and inclusion of all Christ’s gifts: this truth serves to connect the symbolism of all these passages, but does not justify us in disturbing that of one by introducing that of another. Here the morning star clearly is not Christ Himself, the very terms of the sentence separating the two. Then again, we have Lyra, “id est, corpus gloriosum dote claritatis refulgens,” nearly the same words in which he before explained the white stone, Revelation 2:17 , only that there it was “  charitatis :” Grot., “dabo et fulgorem, non qualis cuique stellæ, sed Luciferi, qui cæteras stellas multum vincit.” And this interpretation is probably near the mark. In Dan 12:3 we read that the righteous shall shine ὡς οἱ ἀστέρες , and in Mat 13:43 that they ἐκλάμψουσιν ὡς ὁ ἥλιος ἐν τῇ βασιλείᾳ τοῦ πατρὸς αὐτῶν . And in Pro 4:18 we read that “the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.” Still, this interpretation does not quite satisfy the words  δώσω αὐτῷ : unless indeed the poetic imagery be, that he is imagined as clad in the glory of that star, putting it on as a jewel, or as a glittering robe. De Wette supposes it is to be given to him as its ruler: but such an interpretation would lead into a wide field of speculation which does not seem to have been opened by Scripture, and is hardly required by the passage itself).
	 [46] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [47] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [48] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [49] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.