 12 17 .] THE EPISTLE TO THE CHURCH AT PERGAMUM (see Prolegg. § iii. 9; Trench, p. 106).  And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write :  These things saith He that hath the sharp two-edged sword (this is the logical order in English of the epithet-predicates, τὴν δίστομον τὴν ὀξεῖαν . ἡ ῥ . ἡ δίστομος is the sword with two edges: and to the whole of this is added ἡ ὀξεῖα .
	The designation of our Lord is made with reference to Rev 2:16 below):  I know where thou dwellest ; (viz.)  where is the throne of Satan (it is not easy to say, what these words import. Andr [30] and Areth [31] say in the Catena, θρόνον τοῦ σ . τὸν Περγ . καλεῖ , ὡς κατείδωλον οὖσαν ὑπὲρ τὴν Ἀσίαν πᾶσαν . And so Vitringa and Bengel. But Vitr. himself asks, “an Satanas in illa superstitione (Æsculapii cultu) se magis prodidit Pergami, quam in Dianæ cultu Ephesi?” Grot. Wetst. al. fancy that σατανᾶς was the serpent form under which the god Æsculapius was worshipped at Pergamum. But even the fact itself is doubtful; and the interpretation halts, in that the text is not ὁ θρόνος  τοῦ δράκοντος , instead of τ . σατανᾶ . Zornius, mentioned in Wolf, h. l., explains it of the famous Pergamene library, and the writings of the Sophists therein contained. A more likely direction in which to find the solution is that taken by Lyra, “id est, ejus potestas, infideles inclinando ad persecutionem ecclesiæ:” for above, Revelation 2:10 , the act of persecution is ascribed to the devil: and here we learn by what follows, that he had carried it at Pergamum to the extent of putting Antipas to death; which seems not to have been reached elsewhere at this time. Whether this may have been owing to the fact of the residence of the supreme magistracy at Pergamum, or to some fanatical zeal of the inhabitants for the worship of Æsculapius, or to some particular person or persons dwelling there especially hostile to the followers of Christ (Hengst., Ewald), must remain uncertain. The above view, with unimportant modifications, is adopted by De Wette, Ebrard, Stern (who combines the others with it), Gräber, Düsterd., al. I may remark, that it is plainly out of the question to attempt, as has been done by some, to connect such an expression as this with the prophecies of the latter portion of the book, and to anticipate for the insignificant Pergamum a leading place in their fulfilment. The expression is relevant, as the context shews, merely to the then existing state of the city ( ὅπου  κατοικεῖ below), and not to any future part which it should take in the fulfilment of prophecy),  and thou holdest last (reff.)  my name (the profession of thy faith in Me)  and didst not deny the faith of me in the days of Antipas (or, taking the other form of the text, ‘  in which Antipas:’ see var. readd. As the shorter text runs, and probably also if we read the ταῖς of the Codex Sinaiticus, Ἀντίπας is regarded as indeclinable, which circumstance has apparently led to all the perplexing varieties of reading)  my witness, my faithful one (or, if we omit the second μου ,  my faithful witness : the appositional nominative, see above, ch. Revelation 1:5 . A motive for its use here may have been the nominatival form of the gen. Ἀντίπας . This consideration of itself would obviate the untenable objection which Düsterd. brings against the above account of the construction, viz. that there is no reason to suppose it to have been used except in the case of the Sacred Name, as in ch. Revelation 1:5 ; but see Düsterd.’s own text in Revelation 2:20 ; and reff. there),  who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth (of Antipas = Antipater (Jos. Antt. xiv. 1. 3), after the analogy of Hermas for Hermodorus, Lucas and Silas for Lucanus and Silvanus, nothing is known to us with certainty, except from this passage. Andreas says that he had read the account of his martyrdom: Ἀντίπας δέ τις τοὔνομα μάρτυς ἐν Περγάμῳ γέγονεν ἀνδρειότατος , οὗπερ ἀνέγνων τὸ μαρτύριον : and Areth [32] in Cat. says, οὗ καὶ τὸ μαρτύριον εἰς ἔτι σώζεται . Ribera gives the following account from Simeon Metaphrastes: “Pergami episcopum hunc fuisse tradunt, et ejus martyrium Metaphrastes Simeon scripsit, qui ad extremam eum senectutem pervenisse dicit, et cum res Christianorum propter Domitiani persecutionem magno in discrimine versarentur, nullo timore captum sæpius in publicum prodiisse et inter crudelissimorum tortorum minas intrepide sinceram fidei doctrinam ac Christi laudes prædicasse. Ita Christianis præsidio, dæmonibus terrori erat, qui ab ipso se fugari et sacrificiis suis privari fatebantur. Quare a præfecto urbis captus et in Christi confessione generose persistens ad Dianæ templum tractus et in bovem æneum, quem multo ante igne inflammayerant, conjectus, vitam in gratiarum actione precibusque finivit. Et tanta (inquit Simeon) præstitit virtute, ut locus hic ubi martyrium pertulit, in hodiernum usque diem miraculis excellat, et magnæ in eo fiant curationes.” The Greek and Roman menologies contain similar accounts at his day, April 11th. It is hardly possible to withhold indignation at the many childish symbolic meanings which have been imagined for the name, in defiance of philology and of sobriety alike. First is that of Aretius, ἀντὶ - πᾶς , the enemy of all, i. e. the child of God and enemy of the world; which has been taken up by Hengstenherg, who ought to have known better, and Antipas identified with the historic Timotheus. Such folly would hardly be credited, were it not before our eyes: “  Ist man big hieher gefolgt, so wird man es nicht zu kühn finden, wenn wir die Beramtlung ausstellen, das durch Antipas Timotheus bezeichnet werde. Die beiden namen ‘Furchtegott’ und ‘Gegenall’ stehen in inniger Correspondenz mit einander ,” &c., Hengst. p. 190. This Commentator also finds remarkable meaning in the way in which the name is written in [33] , Ἀντείπας . Then that of E. Schmidt and others, who hold Ἀντεὶπας to be = Ἀντὶπαπα : that of Cocceius, who makes Antipas represent the Athanasians, seeing that ἀντίπατρος = ἰσόπατρος = ὁμοούσιος . I mention such interpretations, to shew how far men may go wrong when once they surrender their judgment to their fancy in search of a mystic sense for plain history, On ὅπου ὁ σατ . κατοικ ., see above).
	 [30] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [31] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [32] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [33] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .