 7 .]  Solemn conclusion of the Epistle .  He that hath an ear (no fanciful distinction must be imagined between the singular, and the plural which is found in the Gospels (reff.): nor must we imagine with Hengst. that οὖς denotes the spiritual hearing or apprehension. We have precisely the same use of the sing. in Matthew 10:27 , ὃ εἰς τὸ οὖς ἀκούετε κηρύξατε ἐπὶ τῶν δωμάτων : where the distinction will hardly be maintained),  let him hear what the Spirit (  τὸ πνεῦμα , speaking in its fulness, through Him to whom it is given without measure, to John who was ἐν πνεύματι , in a state of spiritual ecstasy and receptivity: cf. Joh 16:13 )  saith to the churches (Ebrard well notices that not a colon, but a full stop must be put here, as indeed might be shewn from the way in which the proclamation is repeated in Rev 2:29 and in ch. Revelation 3:6 ; Revelation 3:13 ; Revelation 3:22 . It directs attention, not to that which follows only, but to the whole contents of the seven Epistles).  To him that conquereth (the verb is absolute, without any object expressed as in reff. John and 1 John. So of Christ Himself in ch. Rev 3:21 ),  I will give to him (the personal pronoun is repeated both idiomatically and for emphasis) to eat (i. e. I will permit him to eat: not in the ordinary sense of  giving to eat : see ch. Revelation 3:21 , δώσω αὐτῷ .… καθίσαι  of (the fruit of) the tree (see ref. Gen., from which the words come: and to suit which apparently the words μέσῳ τοῦ have been substituted for τῷ )  of life, which is in the paradise of (my) God (the way to which tree was closed up after man’s sin, Genesis 3:24 . The promise, and its expression, are in the closest connexion with our Lord’s discourse in John 6:0 , as will be seen by comparing Genesis 3:22 , μή ποτε ἐκτείνῃ τὴν χεῖρα αὐτοῦ , καὶ λάβῃ ἀπὸ τοῦ ξύλου τῆς ζωῆς , καὶ φάγῃ , καὶ ζήσεται εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα , with John 6:51 , ἐάν τις φάγῃ ἐκ τούτου τοῦ ἄρτου , ζήσεται εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα . But we need not therefore say (as Ebrard: so also Calov.) that Christ  is the tree of life here, nor confuse the figure by introducing one which in its character is distinct from it. Still less, as Grot., is the tree to be interpreted as being the Holy Spirit. See, for the imagery, ch. Revelation 22:2 ; Revelation 22:14 ; Revelation 22:19 .
	There is meaning in  τοῦ θεοῦ  (  μου  ) . The two former words as following παραδείσῳ , come from Ezekiel 28:13 , and set forth the holiness and glory of that paradise as consisting in God’s dwelling and delighting in it: and the adjunct μου ( Joh 20:17 ), if read, connects this holiness and glory with Him who is ours, and who has every right to make the promise in virtue of his own peculiar part in God.
	On the whole image and expression, see Schöttgen, h. 1., who adduces many parallels from the rabbinical writings).