 6 .]  Notwithstanding, this thou hast (this one thing: there is no need to supply ἀγαθόν or the like: of what sort the τοῦτο is, is explained by what follows. We may notice the tender compassion of our blessed Lord, who, in his blame of a falling church, yet selects for praise one particular in which His mind is yet retained. This is for our comfort: but let us not forget that it is for our imitation also. μεταξὺ τῶν λυπηρῶν τίθησι καὶ τὰ πρὸς εὐθυμίαν ἄγοντα , ἵνα μὴ τῇ περισσοτέρᾳ λύπῃ καταποθῇ τὰ τῆς ἐκκλησίας . Areth [18] in Cat.)  that thou hatest the works (“non dixit Nicolaitas, sed facta: quia personæ sunt ex charitate diligendæ, sed eorum vitia odio sunt habenda.” Lyra. It would have been well with the church, had this always been remembered.  τὰ ἔργα , see below, must be referred to the moral delinquencies of this sect)  of the Nicolaitans (there has been much dispute who these were. The prevailing opinion among the fathers was, that they were a sect founded by Nicolaus the proselyte of Antioch, one of the seven deacons. So Irenæus (Hær. i. 26. 3(27), p. 105, “Nicolaitæ autem magistrum quidem habent Nicolaum, unum ex vii., qui primi ad diaconium ab apostolis ordinati sunt: qui indiscrete vivunt”), Tertullian (Præscr. Hær. 46, vol. ii. p. 63, “alter hæreticus Nicolaus emersit. Hic de septem diaconis qui in Actis App. allecti sunt, fuit.” He then describes his execrable impurities), Clem.-Alex [19] (in two passages, which are worth citing, as I shall presently have to comment on them: 1) Strom, ii.20 (118), p. 490 P., τοιοῦτοι δὲ καὶ οἱ φάσκοντες ἐαυτοὺς Νικολάῳ ἓπεσθαι ἀπομνημόνευμά τι τἀνδρὸς φέροντες ἐκ παρατροπῆς τὸ δεῖν παραχρήσασθαι τῇ σαρκί . ἀλλ ʼ ὁ μὲν γενναῖος κολούειν δεῖν ἐδήλου τάς τε ἡδονὰς τάς τε ἐπιθυμίας , καὶ τῇ ἀσκήσει ταύτῃ καταμαραίνειν τὰς τῆς σαρκὸς ὁρμάς τε καὶ ἐπιθέσεις . οἱ δὲ εἰς ἡδονὴν τράγων δίκην ἐκχυθέντες οἷον ἐφυβρίζοντες τῷ σώματι καθηδυπαθοῦσιν : 2) ib. iii. 4 (25), p. 522 P.: περὶ τῆς Νικολάου ῥήσεως διαλεχθέντες ἐκεῖνο παρελείπομεν · ὡραίαν , φησί , γυναῖκα ἔχων οὗτος μετὰ τὴν ἀνάληψιν τὴν τοῦ σωτῆρος πρὸς τῶν ἀποστόλων ὀνειδισθεὶς ζηλοτυπίαν εἰς μέσον ἀγαγὼν τὴν γυναῖκα γῆμαι τῷ βουλομένῳ ἐπέτρεψεν · ἀκόλουθον γὰρ εἶναί φασι τὴν πρᾶξιν ταύτην ἐκείνῃ τῇ φωνῇ τῇ ὅτι παραχρήσασθαι τῇ σαρκὶ δεῖ ), Euseb. (H. E. iii. 29, citing Clem.-Alex [20] , as above), Epiphanius (Hær. xxv. pp. 76 ff., where he gives a long account of Nicolaus and his depravation and his followers): so also Jerome (dial. adv. Lucif. 23, vol. ii. p. 197) and Aug [21] (de hæres. 5, vol. viii. p. 26), and many other fathers, citations from whom may be seen in Stern’s notes, h. 1.: also Areth [22] in Catena, referring to Epiph.
	 [18] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [19] -Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [20]-Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [21]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [22] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	We have already seen, in Clem.-Alex [23] , symptoms of a desire to vindicate Nicolaus the deacon from the opprobrium of having been the founder of such a sect; and we find accordingly in the apostolical constitutions, οἱ νῦν ψευδώνυμοι Νικολαΐται are spoken of: and Victorinus of Pettau, in our earliest extant commentary on the Apocalypse, says, “Nicolaitæ autem erant illo tempore ficti homines et pestiferi, qui sub nomine Nicolai ministri fecerunt sibi hæresin,” &c. Thence we advance a step farther, and find another Nicolaus substituted for the deacon of that name. So in Dorotheus (cited in Stern) we find him described as a bishop of Samaria ( ὃς ἐπίσκοπος Σαμαρείας γενόμενος ἑτεροδόξησεν ἅμα τῷ Σίμωνι ). And an apocryphal Acts of the Apostles in Fabricius, Cod. Apocr. N. T. i. p. 498 (Stern), speaks of a Corinthian of this name, infamous for licentious practices. We come now to the second principal view with regard to this sect, which supposes their name to be symbolic, and Nicolaus to be the Greek rendering of Balaam, בָּלַע עָם , or, Chald., בְּלַע עָם , ‘perdidit vel absorpsit populum.’ Consequently the name Nicolaitans = Balaamites, as is also inferred from Revelation 2:14 . This view seems first to have been broached by Chr. A. Heumann in the Acta Eruditorum for 1712, and since then has been the prevailing one. (There is a trace in ancient times of a mystical interpretation, e. g. in Haym [24] , gloss. ord., who says, “Nicolaus,  stultus populus , id est, Gentiles Deum ignorantes:” and Ambrose Ansbert, “si a proprietate ad figuram, ut solet, sermo recurrit, omnes hæretici Nicolaitæ esse probantur: Nicolaus enim interpretatur  stultus populus .” What this means, I am as unable to say as was Vitringa: it perhaps arises from thus understanding בַּל עָם , ‘non-populus:’ cf. Deuteronomy 32:21 .) But this is very forced, and is properly repudiated by some of the best modern Commentators: e. g. by De Wette, Ebrard, and Stern. (See also Winer, Realw. sub voce: Neander, Kirchengesch. i. 2. 774 ff.: Gieseler, Kirchengesch. i. 1. 113 note.) In the first place, the names are by no means parallel, even were we to make Balaam, as some have done, into בַּעַל עָם , lord of the people ( Ἀρχέλαος ): and next, the view derives no support from Revelation 2:14 f., where the followers of Balaam are distinct from the Nicolaitans: see note there. And besides, there is no sort of reason for interpreting the name otherwise than historically. It occurs in a passage indicating simple matters of historical fact, just as the name Antipas does in Revelation 2:13 . If we do not gain trustworthy accounts of the sect from elsewhere, why not allow for the gulf which separates the history of the apostolic from that of the post-apostolic period, and be content with what we know of them from these two passages? There is nothing repugnant to verisimilitude in what Clem.-Alex [25] relates of the error of Nicolaus; nor need all of those, who were chosen to aid the Apostles in distributing alms, have been, even to the end of their lives, spotless and infallible. At least it may be enough for us to believe that possible of one of them, which the post-apostolic Fathers did not hesitate to receive),  which I also hate (this strong expression in the mouth of our Lord unquestionably points at deeds of abomination and impurity: cf. Isaiah 59:8 ; Jeremiah 44:4 ; Amos 5:21 ; Zec 8:17 ).
	 [23]-Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [24] Haymo,  Bp. of Halberstadt , 841 853
	 [25]-Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194