 10 .]  Fear not the things which thou art about to suffer (in the ways mentioned below.  ἅ indicates manifold tribulation, as there):  behold [  for certain (  δή gives the tone of present certainty and actuality: see reff. It is in fact originally no more than a shortened form of  ἤδη : see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 245 ff.) ], the devil (Hengstb. after Züllig, would lay stress here on the import of the name of the great adversary, as connected with the βλασφημία above. But this again would be forced and unnatural, especially after the recent mention of σατανᾶ . Of course it is understood from the context, that the devil would act through the hostility of human agents, and among them eminently these Jewish enemies. Trench, in loc., remarks on the reference to the devil, as the primary author of all assaults on the Church, found in the Acts of the ancient martyrs: e. g. the Ep. from the Churches of Lyons and Vienne: the Martyrdom of Polycarp, 3, 17, pp. 1032, 1041: Martyr. Ignat.)  is about to oast (some) of you into prison (literally: the constant accompaniment of persecution, Acts 12:4 ; Acts 16:23 ; not, as Heinr., put for all kinds of misery),  that ye may be tried (by temptations to fall away: not, that ye may be  proved , “ut fidem suam inter maxima pericula probare eoque consummatam virtutem consummare possint,” as Ewald. This might be the end which Christ had in view in permitting the persecution: but ἵνα here rather gives the purpose of the agent in the previous clause, ὁ διάβολος ):  and ye shall have tribulation ten days (the expression is probably used to signify a short and limited time: so in Genesis 24:55 ; Numbers 11:19 ; Daniel 1:12 ; see also Numbers 14:22 ; 1 Samuel 1:8 ; Job 19:3 ; Acts 25:6 . Wetst. quotes Ter. Adelph. v. 1. 36, “decem dierum vix mihi est familia.” So Arethas in Catena, εἰς ὀλίγον χρόνον τούτων ἡ θλῖψις , καὶ οὐδ ʼ ὅσον δέκα ἡμέραις παραμετρεῖσθαι ἀξία . And so, recently, Trench. All kinds of fanciful interpretations have been given: so in Gloss. ord., “Deus suos ad bella mittens Decalogo armat” (another variety of which is, “tribulatio ecclesiæ durabit quamdiu observatio præceptorum Decalogi, quod est usque ad finem mundi:” so Lyra, altern.): “x. diebus, i. e. toto hoc tempore in quo per  septem dies contra  tria principalia vitia pugnatur, avaritiam, cupiditatem, vanam gloriam.” Similarly Ansbert. And again, “significatur totum tempus usque ad finem sæculi, eo quod omnes numeri sequentes denarium sunt replicationes ipsius et partium suarum.” Lyra introduces “the year-day principle:” “posset etiam aliter salvo meliori judicio exponi, ut per decern dies intelligantur decem anni, secundum illud, Ezech. Revelation 4:6 , ‘  Diem pro anno dedi ;’ forte tantum duravit persecutio Smyrnensis ecclesiæ.” This has been taken up by Cluver. in Calov., Brightmann, al. Bed [27] , Haym [28] , and Joachim understand it of the ten persecutions from Nero to Diocletian: Perer., Ribera, and Corn.-a-lap., “decem, id est, multis, diebus:” Ambr [29] , “quia, licet ista tribulatio pluribus diebus et mensibus duret, decem tamen diebus erit atrocissima:” and recently Ebrard understands the ten days of ten divisions, or periods, in the persecution).  Be (  γίνου , not ἴσθι , see reff.: new circumstances of trial requiring new kinds and degrees of fidelity; which does not remain as it is, but takes accession)  thou (it is quite futile to attempt to distinguish in these Epistles between what is said to the Angel in the singular, and what is said to the Church in the plural. This is shewn by the former part of this verse, ἃ μέλλεις πάσχειν .… followed by ἐξ ὑμῶν . Only where there is occasion to discriminate, is the plural used: cf. Revelation 2:24 f.: but wherever the whole church is spoken of it is in the singular, under the person of its representative angel)  faithful unto (reff. not, “  until :” but “  even unto ,” i. e. up to the point or measure of: Let not thy faithfulness stop short of enduring death itself. Cf. Php 2:8 )  death, and (reff.)  I will give thee the crown (  τὸν στ ., as being the well-known prize promised to the faithful: as in reff. Trench, in loc., has an interesting note on the question whether this is a  diadem of royalty, or a  garland of victory: and decides for the former, seeing that the στέφανοι of ch. 5 can only be royal crowns, that the word is employed by all the Evangelists of the “Crown of thorns,” and that the imagery of this book is not any where drawn from Gentile antiquity, but is Jewish throughout)  of life (gen. of apposition: the life itself being the crown: see note, and distinction, on 2Ti 4:8 ).
	 [27] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [28] Haymo,  Bp. of Halberstadt , 841 853
	 [29]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397