 20 .]  Notwithstanding I have against thee that thou sufferest ( ἀφεῖς from ἀφέω , see ref. Ex. and Winer, edn. 6, § 14. 3)  thy wife (or,  the woman )  Jezebel (on the whole, the evidence for  σου being inserted in the text seems to me to preponderate. It could not well have been  inserted : and was sure to have been erased, from its difficulty, and possibly from other reasons, considering what was the common interpretation of the ἄγγελος . It does not create any real difficulty: finding its meaning not in the matter of fact at Thyatira, but in the history from which the appellation Ἰεζαβέλ is taken. In 3 Kings 20:25 ( 1Ki 21:25 ) we read Ἀχαάβ , ὃς ἐπράθη ποιῆσαι τὸ πονηρὸν ἐνώπιον κυρίου , ὡς μετέθηκεν αὐτὸν  Ἰεζαβὲλ ἡ γυνὴ αὐτοῦ : from which text the phrase is transferred entire, importing that this Jezebel was to the church at Thyatira what that other was to Ahab. It is not so easy to determine who is, or who are, imported by the term. The very fact of the name Jezebel being chosen (for it is impossible, even were this the actual name of a woman, that it should be used here with any other than the symbolic meaning), coupled with τὴν γυναῖκά σου above explained, takes us out of the realms of simple fact into those of symbolism. The figure of “Jezebel thy wife” being once recognized in its historical import, it would not be needful that an individual woman should be found to answer to it: the conscience of the Thyatiran church could not fail to apply the severe reproof to whatever influence was being exerted in the direction here indicated. So that I should rate at very little the speculations of many Commentators on the supposed woman here pointed out. Düsterd., recently, remarks that ἡ λέγουσα has something individual about it. So it has: but may not this individuality belong just as well to the figure, as to the thing signified by it? The sect or individuals being once concentrated as Jezebel, ἡ λέγουσα would follow of course, in the propriety of the figure. On the whole, however, I should feel it more probable that some individual  teacher , high in repute and influence at the time, is pointed at. The denunciation of such a teacher under such a title would be at once startling and decisive. Nor would probability be violated by the other supposition, that a favoured and influential party In the Thyatiran church is designated. The church herself is represented by a woman: why may not a party (compare the Jews, who are the συναγωγὴ τοῦ σατανᾶ of Rev 2:9 ) within the church be similarly symbolized? However this may be, the real solution must lie hidden until all that is hidden shall be known. See more below),  who calleth herself a prophetess (the appositional nom. again: see reff.: and again with an indeclinable proper name, as in Revelation 2:13 . This clause perhaps points at an individual: but there is on the other hand no reason why a sect claiming prophetic gifts should not be indicated: the feminine belonging as before to the historical symbol),  and she teacheth and deceiveth my servants, to commit fornication and eat things sacrificed to idols (hence the propriety of the name Jezebel: for both these were the abominations of the historic Jezebel: 2Ki 9:22 ; 2 Kings 9:30 (cf. Jeremiah 4:30 ; Nah 3:4 ): the latter indeed in its more aggravated form of actual idolatry, 1 Kings 18:19 . This specification of the mischief done shews us that this influence at Thyatira was in the same direction as the evil works of the Nicolaitans at Pergamum, Revelation 2:14 . The fact that this was the prevalent direction of the false teaching of the day, is important in a chronological point of view: see Prolegg., § iii. par. 6).  And I gave her time (not, “in my pre-ordination of what is to be,” as the aor. in Mark 13:20 , but denoting historically that which the Lord had actually done, in vain. Notice that the ἀφεῖναι , on which depended the time given her for repentance, is yet blamed in the church of Thyatira as a sin)  that she should repent, and she willeth not to repent of (lit. “  out of :” constr. prægn., so as to come out of: or the μεταν . itself is regarded as an escape. The construction (reff.) is confined to this book: we have the verb once with ἀπό , Acts 8:22 ; and the subst. μετάνοια , Heb 6:1 )  her fornication (  πορνεία is here to be taken, as in all these passages, in its literal sense. Otherwise, if taken figuratively, it would be only a repetition of the other particular, idolatry).