 17 .]  Conclusion . For the former clause see on Revelation 2:7 . We may notice that in these three first Epistles, the proclamation precedes the promise to him that conquereth: in the four last, it follows the promise.  To him that conquereth I will give to him (see above on Rev 2:7 )  of the manna which is hidden (on the partitive gen. see ref., and Winer, edn. 6, § 30. 7, b. In this manna, there is unmistakably an allusion to the proper and heavenly food of the children of Israel, as contrasted with the unhallowed idolofferings; but beyond that, there is an allusion again (see above on Rev 2:7 ) to our Lord’s discourse in John 6:0 , where He describes Himself as the true bread from heaven: not that we need here, any more than in Revelation 2:7 (see note there), confuse the present figure by literally pressing the symbolism of that chapter. Christ’s gifts may all be summed up in the gift of Himself: on the other hand, He may describe any of the manifold proprieties of his own Person and office as His gift. This manna is κεκρυμμένον , in allusion partly perhaps to the fact of the pot of manna laid up in the ark in the holy of holies (Exodus 16:33 ; cf. our ch. Revelation 11:19 ; not to the Jewish fable, “Hæc est arca quam … Josias abscondit ante vastationem templi nostri, et hæc area futuro tempore, adveniente Messia nostra … manifestabitur.” Abarbanel on 1 Samuel 4:4 , cited by Düsterd.), but principally to the fact that our spiritual life, with its springs and nourishments, κέκρυπται σὺν τῷ χριστῷ ἐν τῷ θεῷ , Colossians 3:3 . See also Psalms 78:24 ; Psalms 105:40 . The distinction between κεκρυμμένον , reconditum, and κρυπτόν , occultum, pressed here by Trench after Cocceius, does not appear to be warranted, further than that the participle represents more the objective fact, while the verbal adjective sets forth the subjective quality),  and I will give to him a white stone (see, below),  and on the stone (the prep. of motion betokens the act of inscribing)  a new name written, which none knoweth except he that receiveth it (the views concerning this stone have been very various. Bed [37] interprets it “corpus nunc baptismo candidatum, tunc incorruptionis gloria refulgens.” And similarly Lyra, “corpus dote charitatis decoratum, quod dicitur calculus sive lapillus, quia est extractum de terra, sicut et lapis,” adding, “nomen novum, quia tunc quilibet beatus manifeste et corporaliter per dotes corporis gloriosi erit ascriptus civitati cœlestium.” But both these are surely out of the question. Some have connected this with the mention of the manna, and cited (as Wetst., who gives it merely among others and expresses no opinion) the Rabbinical tradition, Joma 8, “cadebant Israelitis una cum manna lapides pretiosi et margaritæ.” Others again think of the precious stones bearing the names of the twelve tribes on the breastplate of the High-priest, the order for which was contemporary with the giving of the manna, Exodus 28:17 ; Exodus 39:10 , and regard this as indicating the priestly dignity of the victorious Christian. So Ewald, Züllig, Ebrard: the last remarks, that as the hidden manna was the reward for abstaining from idol-meat, so this for abstinence from fornication. But, as Düsterd. observes, these are never called ψῆφοι . Again some, as Arethas, Grot., Hamm., Eichhorn, Heinr., have reminded us of the Gentile custom of presenting the victors at the games with a ψῆφος or ticket which entitled them to nourishment at the public expense, and to admission to royal festivals. Titus, they quote from Xiphilinus, Epit. Dion. p. 228, used to cast small pieces of wood ( σφαίρια ξύλινα μικρά ) down into the arena, σύμβολον ἔχοντα , τὰ μὲν ἐδωδίμου τινός , κ . τ . λ ., which whoever got was to bring καὶ λαβεῖν τὸ ἐπιγεγραμμένον . Hence they regard the white stone as the ticket of admission to the heavenly feast. But it may be replied, 1) the feast is mentioned separately under the name of the hidden manna: and 2) the description of the writing on the stone, which follows, will not suit this view. Again, others, regarding the connexion of the white stone with the manna, refer to the use of the lot cast among the priests,  which should offer the sacrifice (so Schöttg., quoting the Rabbis): or to the writing a name, at election by ballot, on a stone or a bean (so Elsner, and perhaps Victorinus, who says, “gemma alba, adoptio in filium Dei”): or to the “mos erat antiquis niveis atrisque lapillis, His damnare reos, illis absolvere culpa,” Ov. Met. xv. 41. So Erasm., Zeger, a-Lap., Aretius, Calov., Vitr., Wolf, al. Some expositors combine two or more of these expositions: as De Wette, understanding it as typical of justification and election; Bengel; Stern, who also notices the white stone as the mark of felicity, “Hunc, Macrine, diem numera meliore lapillo, Qui tibi labentes apponit candidus annos,” Pers. Sat. ii., and “O diem lætum notandumque mihi candidissimo calculo,” Plin. Ep. vi. 11. 3. But, as Düsterd. well observes, it is against all these interpretations, that no one of them fits the conditions of this description. Each one halts in the explanation either of the stone itself, or of that which is written on it. Least of all, perhaps, does the last apply: the verdict of  acquittal would be a strange reward indeed to one who has fought and overcome in the strength of an acquittal long ago obtained, ὁ κύριος ἐχαρίσατο ὑμῖν Colossians 3:13 . The most probable view is that which Bengel gives a hint of (“scribebant veteres multa in lapillis”), and which Hengst. (“  Das hier in Betrachtkommende Moment ist allein das, dass man im Alterthume manches auf kleine Steine schrieb ”) and Düsterd. hold, that the figure is derived from the practice of using small stones, inscribed with writing, for various purposes, and that, further than this, the imagery belongs to the occasion itself only. Taking it thus, the colour is that of victory, see ch. Revelation 3:4 ; Revelation 6:2 ; Revelation 4:4 ; Revelation 19:14 . The  name inscribed yet remains for consideration. It is in this, as it would be in every case, the inscription which gives the stone its real value, being, as it is, a token of reward and approval from the Son of God. But  what name is this? not what name  in each case , for an answer to this question is precluded by the very terms, ὃ οὐδεὶς οἶδεν , κ . τ . λ .: but  of what kind? Is it the name of Christ Himself, or of God in Christ? This supposition is precluded also by the game terms: for any mysterious name of God or of Christ would either be hidden from all (so ch. Revelation 19:12 , ἔχων … ὄνομα γεγραμμένον ὃ οὐδεὶς οἶδεν εἰ μὴ αὐτός ), or known to all who were similarly victorious through grace. These very terms seem to require that it should be the recipient’s  own name , a  new name however; a revelation of his everlasting title, as a son of God, to glory in Christ, but consisting of, and revealed in, those personal marks and signs of God’s peculiar adoption of  himself , which he and none else is acquainted with. “If the heart knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger intermeddleth not with its joy” ( Pro 14:10 ), then the deep secret dealings of God with each of us during those times, by which our sonship is assured and our spiritual strife carried onward to victory, can, when revealed to us in the other blessed state, be known thoroughly to ourselves only. Bengel beautifully says, “  Mochtest Du wissen, was Du fur einen neuen Namen bekommen wirst? Uberwinde! Borher fragst Du vergeblich: und hernach wirst Du ihn bald auf dem weissen Stein geschrieben lesen .” Trench, in loc., after Züllig, suggests that the white, or glistering stone, may be the Urim, in which the most precious stone of all was covered by the twelve on which the names of the tribes were engraved; the writing on which no one knew. The suggestion is one well worth consideration).
	 [37] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.