 14 7:1 .]  Separate yourselves from unbelief and impurity . On the nature of the connexion, Stanley has some good remarks. He now applies to circumstances which had arisen among the Corinthians the exhortation which in 2Co 6:1 he described himself as giving in pursuance of his ministry of reconciliation. The following exhortations are  general , and hardly to be pressed as applying only to  partaking of meats offered to idols , as Calv., al., or to  marriage with unbelievers , as Estius, but regard all possible connexion and participation, all leanings towards a return to heathenism which might be bred by too great familiarity with heathens.  Become not (‘ne  fiatis , molliter pro: ne  sitis ,’ Bengel: rather, perhaps, as expressing, ‘do not enter into those relations in which you must become’)  incongruous yokefellows (the word and idea from ref. Levit. Hesych [9] : ἑτερόζυγοι · οἱ μὴ συζυγοῦντες . Grot. explains it, ‘  alteram partem jugi trahere ,’ but this does not give the force of  ἑτερο  - : Theophyl., μὴ ἀδικεῖτε τὸ δίκαιον ἐπικλινόμενοι κ . προσκλινόμενοι οἷς οὐ θέμις : so making the simile that of an unequal balance: but this could hardly be without more precise notification)  with unbelievers (Winer explains the construction, edn. 6, § 31. 10, Remark 4, thus, μὴ γίν . ἑτεροζυγοῦντες , καὶ οὕτως ὁμοζυγοῦντες ἀπίστοις : better, as De W., μὴ γίν . ὁμοζ . ἀπίστοις κ . οὕτως ἑτεροζυγοῦντες ).
	 [9] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	 μετοχή ] ‘  share in the same thing ,’  community. .
	 δικαιοσ . is the state of the Christian, being justified by faith: he is therefore excluded from  ἀνομία , the  proper fruit of faith being  obedience .
	 φωτί , of which we are the children, 1 Thessalonians 5:5 , and not of darkness.
	Meyer remarks, that the fivefold variation of the term to express partnership, μετοχή , κοινωνία , συμφώνησις , μερίς , συγκατάθεσις , shews the Apostle’s command of the Greek language. The construction of κοινωνία with a dat. and πρός , is illustrated by Wetst. from Stobæus, S. 28, εἰ δέ τις ἔστι κοινωνία πρὸς θεοὺς ἡμῖν , and Philo, leg. ad Caium, § 14, vol. ii. p. 561, τίς οὖν κοινωνία πρὸς Ἀπόλλωνα , τῷ μηδὲν οἰκεῖον ἢ συγγενὲς ἐπιτετηδευκότι ;