 7.  ἐν λόγ  .   ἀληθ .] is taken by De W., Meyer, al., as subjective, ‘in speaking, or teaching truth’ ‘  in discourse, the contents whereof were truth :’ but their objection against the sense  in the word of truth , = ἐν τῷ λόγῳ τῆς ἀληθείας , as it is expressed Colossians 1:5 , is not valid, on account (1) of the government by a preposition, which would make the insertion of the article optional, (2) of the whole catalogue being anarthrous, which would cause the article to be omitted for uniformity’s sake.
	 ἐν δυν  .   θεοῦ ] viz. the Power spoken of ch. 2 Corinthians 4:7 , the power manifested in every part of our apostolic working, not merely in miracles.
	 διὰ τ. ὅπλ. τ. δικ .]  By means of ( ἐν is changed for διὰ , first apparently  on account of τὰ ὅπλα , marking them more distinctly as  instruments , and then continued)  the weapons of righteousness (  belonging to , or as Meyer,  furnished by, the righteousness which is of faith . That panoply,  part of which only in the more particular specification of Ephesians 6:13-17 , viz. the θῶραξ , is allotted to δικαιοσύνη , is here  all assigned to it.
	Some of the ancient Commentators, Chrys., Œcum., al., and Grot., Estius, al., understand by ὅπλα , ‘  instruments ,’ as in Romans 6:13 , and interpret these instruments to be,  situations and opportunities of life , whether prosperous, δεξιά , or adverse, ἀριστερά : but the other interpretation is in better accordance with the Apostle’s habit of comparison, see ch. 2 Corinthians 10:4 ; Ephesians 6:13 ff.; 1Th 5:8 ).
	 τῶν δεξ  .   κ  .   ἀριστ .]  which are on the right and left : i.e. encompassing and guarding the whole person. Grot., Bengel, and most recent Commentators, even De W. and Meyer, explain it, both  righthanded , i.e. of  attack , the sword and spear, and  left-handed , i.e. of  defence , the shield: but it seems to me that this would require: τῶν δεξιῶν καὶ τῶν ἀριστερῶν : whereas now, no article being inserted before ἀριστ ., it is implied that  the panoply ( τὰ ὅπλα ) is  on both sides ( δεξιὰ κ . ἀριστερά ) of the person. On the interpretation  prosperity and  adversity , see above.