 8. ] Perhaps the  instrumental signification of διὰ need not be strictly retained. The preposition, once adopted, is kept for the sake of parallelism, though with various shades of meaning. I would understand it in διὰ δοξ ., &c., as in διὰ πολλῶν δακρύων , as pointing out the  medium through which . Thus understood, these two pairs in 2Co 6:8 will form an easy transition from instrumental, through medial, to the passive characteristics which follow.
	 ὡς πλάνοι ] From speaking of  repute , he passes to the  character of the repute. In all these capacities and under all these representations or misrepresentations, we, as ministers of God, recommend ourselves. But in these following clauses a new point is perhaps brought out, viz. the difference of our  real state from our  reputed one . That this is the case with ὡς ἀποθν . κ . ἰδοὺ ζῶμεν with and all following, is of course clear. But is it so with the two clauses preceding that one? Do they mean, ‘  as deceivers, and yet true, as unknown, and yet well known ,’ or, ’  as deceivers, and as true men, as unknown, and as well known ?’ I own I am not clear on this point. The words καὶ ἰδοὺ ζῶμεν  may be an indication how the Apostle would have the previous two clauses understood; but they also  may be a transition , altering the previous reference of the second member of the clause, now that the subject is no longer matter of rumour, as πλάνοι and ἀγνοούμενοι , but matter of fact, as ἀποθνήσκοντες , and the following. If the latter alternative be taken, the two clauses will serve as a transition to the subsequent ones, thus: having said, διὰ δυσφημίας κ . εὐφημίας , he proceeds ὡς πλάνοι (answering to δυσφ .) καὶ ἀληθεῖς (answering to εὐφ .), ὡς ἀγνοούμενοι (still having δυσφ . in view, as ‘  unknown ,’ of obscure reputation), καὶ ἐπιγινωσκόμενοι (still looking back at εὐφ ., seeing that the ἐπίγνωσις would lead to good repute): then, having by the  participles of the latter clause expressed more a matter of fact than did the adjectives of the former one, he passes to ὡς ἀποθνήσκοντες , which has no longer its main reference to the  repute of others , but to the  fact , see ch. 2 Corinthians 4:7 ff., as exhibited in himself. I confess that on the whole this rendering recommends itself to my mind.