 11. ]  Our (my)  mouth is open (not  past : the use of ἀνέῳγα for ἀνέῳγμαι is common in later Greek: see Palm and Rost’s Lex., and ref. 1 Cor. Rückert takes it as past, and renders, ‘I have begun to speak with you, I have not concealed my apostolic sentiments I cannot shut my mouth, but must go on speaking to you yet further.’ The word seems to refer to the free and open spirit shewn in the whole previous passage on the ministry, in which he had so liberally imparted his inner feelings to them)  towards you, Corinthians ( καὶ ἡ προσθήκη δὲ τοῦ ὀνόματος φιλίας πολλῆς , καὶ διαθέσεως καὶ θερμότητος · καὶ γὰρ εἰώθαμεν τῶν ἀγαπωμένων συνεχῶς γυμνὰ τὰ ὀνόματα περιστρέφειν , Chrys. Hom. xiii. p. 530 f. See Philippians 4:15 ; Galatians 3:1 , which last is written under a very different feeling),  our (my)  heart has become enlarged . These last words are very variously explained. Chrys., Theodoret, Œc [8] , al., understand them of the  expansive effect of love on the heart: Luther, Estius, al., of  dilatio gaudii , which does not however agree with πλατύνθητε καὶ ὑμεῖς below: nor with the general context, either of what precedes or of what follows: for to refer it to ch. 2 Corinthians 7:4 , as Estius, is evidently far-fetched, the intermediate matter being of such a different character. alii aliter. Meyer holds with Chrys., and refers it to the preceding passage, during which his heart became expanded in love to them. De Wette takes it, ‘  I have poured out, enlarged and diffused, my heart to you ,’ viz. by speaking thus open-hearted to you. I believe the precise sense will only be found by taking into account the πλατύνθ . κ . ὑμεῖς below, and the occurrence of the expression in the Psalm (reff.: cf. ἐν πλατυσμῷ , ib., v. 45). Some light is also thrown upon it by χωρήσατε ἡμᾶς , ch. 2 Corinthians 7:2 . The  heart is considered as a  space , wherein its thoughts and feelings are contained. We have seen the same figure in our expression ‘narrow-minded.’ In order to  take in a new object of love, or of desire, or of ambition, the heart must be  enlarged : ὁδὸν ἐντολῶν σου ἔδραμον , ὅταν ἐπλάτυνας τὴν καρδίαν μου . The Apostle has had his heart  enlarged towards the Corinthians:  he could and did take them in , with their infirmities, their interests, their Christian graces, their defects and sins: but  they did not and could not take him in ( χωρῆσαι αὐτόν ): he was misunderstood by them, and his relation to them disregarded. This he here asserts, and deprecates. He assures them of  their place in  his heart, which is  wide enough for , and  does contain them ; and refers back to this verse in ch. 2 Corinthians 7:3 , thus, προείρηκα ὅτι  ἐν ταῖς καρδίαις ἡμῶν ἐστε .… He tells them, 2 Corinthians 6:12  . ] that they are not straitened in  him , i.e. that any constraint which they may feel towards him, any want of confidence in him and persuasion of his real appreciation of their state and interests, arose, not from  his being  really unable to appreciate  them , and love them, and advise them, but from  their own confined view of  him , of his love, his knowledge of and feeling for them.
	 [8] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?