 14. ]  ἐν τῇ δ  .   τ  .   πν  ., in the power of that full anointing  of the Spirit for His holy office, which He had received at His baptism: and also implying that this power was used by Him in doing mighty works.
	Here the chronological order of Luke’s history begins to be confused, and the first evident marks occur of indefiniteness in arrangement, which I believe characterizes this Gospel. And in observing this, I would once for all premise, (1) that I have no bias for finding such chronological inaccuracy, and have only done so where no fair and honest means will solve the difficulty; (2) that where internal evidence appears to me to decide this to be the case, I have taken the only way open to a Commentator who would act uprightly by the Scriptures, and fairly acknowledged and met the difficulty; (3) that so far from considering the testimony of the Evangelists to be weakened by such inaccuracies, I am convinced that it becomes only so much the stronger (see Prolegomena to the Gospels).
	These remarks have been occasioned by the relation of this account, Luke 4:14-30 , to the Gospels of Matthew and John. Our Luk 4:14-15 embrace the narrative of Matthew in ch. Luke 4:12-25 . But after that comes an event which belongs to a later period of our Lord’s ministry. A fair comparison of our Luk 4:16-24 with Mat 13:53-58 and Mark 6:1-6 , entered on without bias, and conducted solely from the narratives themselves, surely can hardly fail to convince us of their identity. (1) That  two such visits should have happened , is of itself  not impossible; though (with the sole exception of Jerusalem for obvious reasons) our Lord did not ordinarily revisit the places where He had been rejected as in our Luke 4:28-29 . (2) That He should have been thus treated at His first visit, and then  marvelled at their unbelief on His second, is  utterly impossible . (Stier, in the 2nd ed. of his Reden Jesu, says, with reference to the above position of mine, “To this we give a very simple answer: It was at their persistence in unbelief, after their first emotion and confusion, after His continued teaching and working of miracles, that He wondered.” But it may fairly be rejoined, is there any sign of this in the narratives of Matt. and Mark? Is it not a forcing of their spirit to suit a preconceived notion?) (3) That the same question should have been asked on both occasions, and answered by our Lord with the same proverbial expression, is in the highest degree improbable. (4) Besides, this narrative itself bears  internal marks of belonging to a later period. The  ὅσα ἠκούσ  .   γεν  .   εἰς τὴν Καφαρν  . must refer to  more than one miracle done there: indeed the whole form of the sentence points to the plain fact, that our Lord had been residing long in Capernaum. Compare too its introduction here without any notification, with its description as  πόλιν τῆς Γαλ  . in Luke 4:31 , and the separateness of the two pieces will be apparent: see further remarks in the notes below.
	Here however is omitted an important cycle of our Lord’s sayings and doings, both in Galilee and Jerusalem; viz. that contained in Joh 1:29 to Joh 4:54 included. This will be shewn by comparing Matthew 4:12 , where it is stated that our Lord’s return to Galilee was  after the casting of John into prison , with John 3:24 , where, on occasion of the Lord and the disciples baptizing in Judæa, it is said,  John was not yet cast into prison: see note on Matthew 4:12 .
	 φήμη ] The report, namely, of His miracles in Capernaum, wrought  ἐν τῇ δυν  .   τ  .   πν  ., and possibly of what He had done and taught at Jerusalem at the feast.