 3. ] From Mark we learn, that it was  Peter and James and John and Andrew who asked this question. With regard to the question itself, we must, I think, be careful not to press the clauses of it too much, so as to make them bear separate meanings corresponding to the arrangements of our Lord’s discourse. As expressed in the other Evangelists, the question was concerning the time, and the sign, of  these things happening, viz. the overthrow of the temple and desolation of Judæa, with which, in the then idea of the Apostles, our Lord’s coming and the end of the world were connected. Against this mistake He warns them, Matthew 24:6 ; Matthew 24:14 , Luke 21:24 , and also in the two first parables in our ch. 25.
	For the understanding of this necessarily difficult prophetic discourse, it must be borne in mind that the whole is spoken in the pregnant language of prophecy, in which various fulfilments are involved. (1) The view of the Jewish Church and its fortunes as  representing the Christian Church and its history , is one key to the interpretation of this chapter.
	 Two parallel interpretations run through the former part as far as Matthew 24:28 ; the destruction of Jerusalem and the final judgment being both enwrapped in the words, but the former, in this part of the chapter, predominating. Even in this part, however, we cannot tell how applicable the warnings given may be to the events of the last times, in which apparently Jerusalem is again to play so distinguished a part.  From Matthew 24:28 , the lesser subject begins to be swallowed up by the greater, and our Lord’s  second coming to be the predominant theme, with however certain hints thrown back as it were at the event which was immediately in question: till, in the latter part of the chapter and the whole of the next, the  second advent , and, at last, the  final judgment ensuing on it, are the subjects. (2) Another weighty matter for the understanding of this prophecy is, that (see Mar 13:32 ) any obscurity or concealment concerning the  time of the Lord’s second coming, must be attributed to the right cause, which we know from His own mouth to be, that the divine Speaker Himself, in His humiliation,  did not know the day nor the hour . All that He had heard of the Father, He made known unto His disciples ( Joh 15:15 ): but that which the Father kept in His own power ( Act 1:7 ), He did not in His abased humanity know. He told them the  attendant circumstances of His coming; He gave them enough to guard them from error in supposing the day to be close at hand, and from carelessness in not expecting it as near. (Regarding Scripture prophecy as I do as a  whole , and the same great process of events to be denoted by it all, it will be but waste labour to be continually at issue, in the notes of this and the succeeding chapter, with Meyer and others, who hold that the  Gospel prophecies are inconsistent in their eschatology with  those after the Ascension , and those again with the  chiliastic ones of the Apocalypse . How untenable this view is, I hope the following notes will shew; but to be continually meeting it, is the office of polemic, not of exegetic theology.)