 15. ]  βδέλυγ  .   τ  .   ἐρημ  . ] The LXX rendering and that of Theod. ( [165] omits τῆς ) of שִׁקּוּץ שֹׁמֵם , Daniel 12:11 . The similar expression in ch. Daniel 11:31 , is rendered in the same manner by the LXX, but by Theod. βδέλ . ἠφανισμένον , and in ch. Matthew 9:27 , LXX and Theod. τὸ βδέλ . τῶν ἐρημώσεων . To what  exactly the words in Daniel apply, is not clear. Like other prophecies, it is probable that they are pregnant with several interpretations, and are not yet entirely fulfilled. They were interpreted of  Antiochus Epiphanes by the Alexandrine Jews; thus 1Ma 1:54 we read ᾠκοδόμησαν βδέλυγμα ἐρημώσεως ἐπὶ τὸ θυσιαστήριον . Josephus refers the prophecy to the  desolation by the Romans : Antt. x. 11. 7, Δανιῆλος καὶ περὶ τῆς τῶν Ῥωμαίων ἡγεμονίας ἀνέγραψε , καὶ ὅτι ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν ἐρημωθήσεται . The principal Commentators have supposed, that the  eagles of the Roman legions are meant, which were βδέλυγμα , inasmuch as they were  idols worshipped by the soldiers . These, they say, stood in  the holy place , or  a holy place, when the Roman armies encamped round Jerusalem under Cestius Gallus first, A.D. 66, then under Vespasian, A.D. 68, then lastly under Titus, A.D. 70. Of these the  first is generally taken as the sign meant. Josephus relates, B. J. ii. 20. 1, that after Cestius was defeated, πολλοὶ τῶν ἐπιφανῶν Ἰουδαίων , ὥσπερ βαπτιζομένης νέως , ἀνενήχοντο τῆς πόλεως . But, without denying that this  time was that of the sign being given, I believe that all such interpretations of its meaning are wholly inapplicable. The error has mainly arisen from supposing that the parallel warning of Luke (Luke 21:20 , ὅταν δὲ ἴδητε  κυκλουμένην ὑπὸ στρατοπέδων Ἱερ . τότε γνῶτε ὅτι ἤγγικεν ἡ ἐρήμωσις αὐτῆς ) is identical in meaning with our text and that of Mark. The two first Evangelists, writing for Jews, or  as Jews, give the  inner or  domestic sign of the approaching calamity: which was to be seen  in the temple , and was to be the  abomination (always used of something caused by the Jews themselves, see 2 Kings 21:2-15 ; Ezekiel 5:11 ; Ezekiel 7:8-9 ; Eze 8:6-16 ) which should  cause the desolation , the last drop in the cup of iniquity. Luke, writing for Gentiles, gives the  outward state of things corresponding to this inward sign. That the  Roman eagles cannot be meant , is apparent: for the sign would thus be  no sign , the Roman eagles having been seen on holy ground  for many years past , and at the very moment when these words were uttered. Also τόπος ἃγιος must mean  the temple : see reff.
	 [165] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	Now in searching for some event which may have given such alarm to the Christians, Josephus’s unconscious admission (B. J. iv. 6. 3) is important: ἦν γὰρ δή τις παλαιὸς λόγος ἀνδρῶν , ἕνθα τότε τὴν πόλιν ἁλώσεσθαι , καὶ καταφλεγήσεσθαι τὰ ἅγια νόμῳ πολέμου , στάσις ἐὰν κατασκήψῃ , καὶ χεῖρες οἰκεῖαι προμιάνωσι τὸ τοῦ θεοῦ τέμενος · οἷς οὐκ ἀπιστήσαντες οἱ ζηλωταὶ διακόνους ἑαυτοὺς ἐπέδοσαν . The party of the Zelots, as we learn from ib. ch. 3. 6, 7, had taken possession of the temple, τὸν νεὼν τοῦ θ .  φρούριον αὐτοῖς ποιοῦνται , καὶ καταφυγὴ καὶ τυραννεῖον αὐτοῖς ἦν  τὸ ἅγιον . In the next section (8) he tells us that they chose one Phannius as their high-priest, an ignorant and profane fellow, brought out of the field, ὥσπερ ἐπὶ σκηνῆς ἀλλοτρίῳ κατεκόσμουν προσωπείῳ , τήν τε ἐσθῆτα περιτιθέντες ἱεράν , καὶ τὸ τί δεῖ ποιεῖν ἐπὶ καιροῦ διδάσκοντες , χλεύν δ ʼ ἦν ἐκείνοις καὶ παιδιὰ τὸ τηλικοῦτον ἀσέβημα , τοῖς δὲ ἄλλοις ἱερεῦσιν ἐπιθεωμένοις πόῤῥωθεν παιζόμενον τὸν νόμον δακρύειν ἐπῄει , καὶ κατέστενον τὴν τῶν ἱερῶν τιμῶν κατάλυσιν . I own that the above-cited passages strongly incline me to think that if not this very impiety, some similar one, about or a little before this time, was the sign spoken of by the Lord. In its place in Josephus, this very event  seems to stand a little too late for our purpose (A.D. 67, a year after the investment by Cestius): but the narrative occurs in a description of the atrocities of the Zelots, and  without any fixed date , and they had been in possession of the temple from the very first. So that this or some similar abomination may have about this time filled up the cup of iniquity and given the sign to the Christians to depart. Whatever it was, it was a  definite, well-marked event , for the flight was to be immediate,  on one day ( μηδὲ σαββάτῳ ), and universal from all parts of Judæa. Putting then St. Luke’s expression and the text together, I think that some  internal desecration of the holy place by the Zelots coincided with the approach of Cestius, and thus, both from without and within, the Christians were warned to escape. See Luke 21:20 ; also Bp. Wordsw.’s note here, which however introduces much mystical and irrelevant matter, though coming to what I regard as the right conclusion.
	 ὁ ἀναγ  .   νοείτω ] This I believe to have been an ecclesiastical note, which, like the doxology in ch. Matthew 6:13 , has found its way into the text. If the two first Gospels were published before the destruction of Jerusalem, such an admonition would be very intelligible. The words  may be part of our Lord’s discourse directing attention to the prophecy of Daniel (see 2 Timothy 2:7 ; Dan 12:10 ); but this is not likely, especially as  the reference to Daniel does not occur in Mark, where these words are also found. They  cannot well be the words of the  Evangelist , inserted to bespeak attention, as this in the three first Gospels is wholly without example.