 6 8. ]  πόλεμοι and  ἀκοαὶ πολέμων there certainly  were during this period; but the prophecy must be interpreted rather of those of which the  Hebrew Christians would be most likely to hear as a cause of terror. Such undoubtedly were the  three threats of war against the Jews by Caligula, Claudius, and Nero; of the first of which Josephus says, Antt. xix. 1. 2, ἔθνει τε τῷ ἡμετέρῳ οὐδὲ εἰς ὀλίγον ἐξεγεγόνει μὴ οὐκ ἀπολωλέναι , μὴ ταχείας αὐτῷ ( Γαίῳ ) τελευτῆς παραγενομένης . Luke couples with πολ ., ἀκαταστασίας , and to this  ἔθνος ἐπὶ ἔθνος seems also to point. There were serious disturbances, (1) at Alexandria, which gave rise to the complaint against and deposition of Flaccus, and Philo’s work against him (A.D. 38), in which the Jews as a nation were the especial objects of persecution; (2) at Seleucia about the same time (Jos. Antt. xviii. 9. 8, 9), in which more than 50,000 Jews were killed; (3) at Jamnia, a city on the coast of Judæa near Joppa (Philo, legat. ad Caium, § 30, vol. ii. p. 575 f.). Many other such national tumults are recorded by Josephus. See especially B. J. ii. 17. 10; 18. 1 8, in the former of which places, he calls the sedition προοίμιον ἁλώσεως , and says that ἕκαστος τῶν μετρίων ἐτετάρακτο : and adds, δεινὴ δὲ ὅλην τὴν Συρίαν ἐπέσχε ταραχή , καὶ πᾶσα πόλις εἰς δύο διῄρητο στρατόπεδα .
	 λιμός , and λοιμός , which is coupled to it in [164] Luke, are usual companions: a proverb says, μετὰ λιμὸυ λοιμός . With regard to the  first , Greswell (Parr. vol. v. p. 261 note) shews that the famine prophesied of in the Acts ( Mat 11:28 ) happened in the ninth of Claudius, A.D. 49. It was great at Rome, and therefore probably Egypt and Africa, on which the Romans depended so much for supplies, were themselves much affected by it. Suetonius (Claud. 18) speaks of  assiduæ sterilitates ; and Tacitus (Ann. xii. 43) of ‘frugum egestas, et orta ex eo fames,’ about the same time. There was a famine in Judæa in the reign of Claudius (the true date of which however Mr. Greswell believes (Diss. vol. ii. p. 5) to be the third of Nero), mentioned by Josephus, Antt. iii. 15. 3. And as to λοιμοί , though their occurrence might, as above, be inferred from the other, we have distinct accounts of a pestilence at Rome (A.D. 65) in Suetonius, Nero 39, and Tacitus, Ann. xvi. 13, which in a single autumn carried off 30,000 persons at Rome. But such matters as these are not often related by historians, unless of more than usual severity.
	 [164] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 σεισμοί ] The principal  earthquakes occurring between this prophecy and the destruction of Jerusalem were, (1) a great earthquake in Crete, A.D. 46 or 47 [Philostr. Vita Apollonii iv. 34]; (2) one at Rome on the day when Nero assumed the toga virilis, A.D. 51 [Zonaras xi. 10, p. 565]; (3) one at Apamæa in Phrygia, mentioned by Tacitus (Ann. xii. 58), A.D. 53; (4) one at Laodicea in Phrygia (Tacitus, Ann. xiv. 27), A.D. 60; (5) one in Campania (Tacitus, Ann. xv. 22). Seneca, Ep. 91, § 9, in the year A.D. 58, writes: ‘Quoties Asiæ, quoties Achaiæ urbes uno tremore ceciderunt! quot oppida in Syria, quot in Macedonia devorata sunt! Cyprum quoties vastavit hæc clades! quoties in se Paphus corruit; frequenter nobis nuntiati sunt totarum urbium interitus.’ The prophecy, mentioning κατὰ τόπους (  place for place, i.e. here and there, each in its particular locality; as we say, “up and down”), does not seem to imply that the earthquakes should be in Judæa or Jerusalem. We have an account of one in Jerusalem, in Josephus, B. J. iv. 4. 5, which Mr. Greswell [Parr. ver. 259 note] places about Nov. A.D. 67. On the additions in Luke 21:11 , see notes there; and on this whole passage see the prophecies in 2 Chronicles 15:5-7 , and Jeremiah 51:45-46 .
	 ἀρχὴ ὠδίνων ] in reference to the παλιγγενεσία (ch. Mat 19:28 ), which is to precede the συντέλεια τοῦ αἰῶνος . So Paul in Romans 8:22 , πᾶσα ἡ κτίσις .… συν  ωδίνει ἄχρι τοῦ νῦν . The death-throes of the Jewish state precede the ‘regeneration’ of the universal Christian Church, as the death-throes of this world the new heavens and new earth.