 32, 33, 34. ]  τὴν παρ  ., not as E. V., ‘  a parable ,’ but  the (not,  its : the fig-tree may teach many lessons besides this; cf. reff. Matt. Luke)  parable, the natural phænomenon which may serve as a key to the meaning.
	This coming of the Lord shall be as sure a sign that the Kingdom of Heaven is nigh, as the putting forth of the tender leaves of the fig-tree is a sign that summer is nigh. Observe πάντα ταῦτα , every one of these things, this coming of the Son of Man  included , which will introduce the millennial Kingdom.
	As regards the parable, there is a reference to the  withered fig-tree which the Lord cursed : and as that, in its judicial unfruitfulness, emblematized the Jewish people, so here the putting forth of the fig-tree from its state of winter dryness, symbolizes the  future reviviscence of that race, which the Lord ( Mat 24:34 ) declares shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. That this is the true meaning of that verse, must appear when we recollect that it forms the conclusion of this parable, and is itself joined by παρέλθῃ to the verse following. We cannot, in seeking for its ultimate fulfilment,  go back to the taking of Jerusalem and make the words apply to it.
	As this is one of the points on which the rationalizing interpreters (De Wette, &c.) lay most stress to shew that the prophecy has  failed , it may be well to shew that  γενεά has in Hellenistic Greek the meaning of  a race or family of people . See Jer 8:3 LXX; compare ch. Mat 23:36 with ib. Matthew 23:35 , ἐφονεύσατε … but  this generation did not slay Zacharias so that the  whole people are addressed: see also ch. Matthew 12:45 , in which the meaning absolutely requires this sense (see note there): see also Luke 17:25 ; Matthew 17:17 ; Luke 16:8 (where γενεά is predicated both of the υἱοὶ τοῦ αἰῶνος τούτου and the νἱοὶ τοῦ φωτός ): Acts 2:40 ; Philippians 2:15 . In all these places γενεά is = γένος , or nearly so; having it is true a more pregnant meaning, implying that the character of one generation  stamps itself upon the race , as here in this verse also.
	This meaning of γενεά is fully conceded by Dorner; ‘omnes reor concessuros, vocem γ . si eam vertas  ætas , multas easque plane insuperabiles ciere difficultates, contextum vero et orationis progressum flagitare significationem  gentis , nempe Judæorum.’ (Stier, ii. 502.) The continued use of  παρέρχομαι in Matthew 24:34-35 , should have saved the Commentators from the blunder of imagining that the then living generation was meant, seeing that the prophecy is by the next verse carried on to the end of all things: and that, as matter of fact, the Apostles and ancient Christians  did continue to expect the Lord’s coming, after that generation had part away . But, as Stier well remarks, “there are men foolish enough now to say, heaven and earth will never pass away, but the words of Christ pass away in course of time ; of this, however, we wait the proof.” ii. 505.
	 πάντα ταῦτα ]  all the signs hitherto recounted so that both these words, and  ὑμεῖς  , have their  partial , and their  full meanings.
	 ἐγγύς ἐστιν ] viz. τὸ τέλος . On Mat 24:35 see Psalms 119:89 ; Isaiah 40:8 ; Isaiah 51:6 ; Psalms 102:26 .