 30. ] This  τότε  , so emphatically placed and repeated, is a  definite declaration of time , not a mere sign of sequence or coincidence, as e.g. in Matthew 24:23 : when these things shall have been somewhile filling men’s hearts with fear, THEN shall, &c.
	It is quite uncertain what the σημεῖον shall be: plainly, not  the Son of Man Himself , as Some explain it (even Bengel, generally so valuable in his explanations, says ‘Ipse erit signum sui,’ and quotes Luk 2:12 as confirming this view; but there the swaddling clothes and the manger were the ‘sign,’ not the  child ), nor  any outward marks on his body , as his wounds; for both these would confuse what the prophecy keeps distinct the seeing of the  sign of the Son of Man, and all tribes of the earth mourning, and afterwards seeing  the Son of Man Himself . This is manifestly  some sign in the Heavens , by which all shall know that the Son of Man is at hand The  Star of the Wise Men naturally occurs to our thoughts but a  star would not be a sign which all might read.
	On the whole I think no sign completely answers the conditions but that of  the Cross : and accordingly we find the Fathers mostly thus explaining the passage. But as our Lord Himself does not answer the question,  τί τὸ σημεῖον τῆς σῆς παρουσίας ; we may safely leave the matter. I mention, just to shew how sensible expositors can be misled by a false interpretation of the whole, Wetstein’s strange paraphrase of τὸ σημεῖον τ . υ . τ . ἀνθ ., ‘fumus Hierosolymorum incensorum, qui interdiu solem, nocte vero lunam et Stellas obscurat.’
	 πᾶσαι αἱ φ  .   τ  .   γ  . ] see Zechariah 12:10-14 , where the mourning is confined to the families of Israel: here, it is universal: see reff. Rev.; also Matthew 6:15-17 . This coming of the Son of Man is not that spoken of ch. Matthew 25:31 , but that in 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 , and Revelation 19:11 ff., His coming  at the commencement of the millennial reign to establish His Kingdom : see Daniel 7:13-14 .
	 δύναμις is the  power of this Kingdom , not, the host of heaven.