 7. ] The  reason of his being sent to Siloam is uncertain. It may have been as  part of the cure , or merely to wash off the clay. The former is most probable, especially as the  εἰς must be taken with νίψαι , not with ὕπαγε , and thus would imply immersion in the pool. So Athen [145] x. p. 438 F (in Meyer), λούεσθαι εἰς λουτρῶνας .
	 [145] Athenagoras of Athens, 177
	A beggar blind from his birth would know the localities sufficiently to be able to find his way; so that there is no necessity to suppose a partial restoration of sight before his going.
	The situation of the fountain and pool of Siloam is very doubtful. Robinson makes both at the mouth of the ancient Tyropœon, S.E. of the city. He himself explored a subterranean passage from this spot to the Fountain of the Virgin higher up on the banks of the Kedron. Josephus, B. J. ver. 4. 1, says, ἡ δὲ τῶν τυροποιῶν προσαγορευομένη φάραγξ … καθήκει μέχρι Σιλωάμ · οὕτω γὰρ τὴν πηγήν , γλυκεῖάν τε καὶ πολλὴν οὖσαν , ἐκαλοῦμεν . Jerome sets it “ad radices montis Zion” (on Isa 8:6 ), and mentions its intermittent character: but he also says (on Mat 10:28 ), “ad radices montis Moria,  in quibus Siloo fluit:” so that his testimony exactly agrees with Josephus and Robinson (see Robins. i. 493 ff., and The Land and the Book, pp. 659 ff.). It is mentioned Nehemiah 3:15 ; Isaiah 8:6 . On the subject of a recent suggestion respecting the identity of Siloam and Bethesda, see supplementary note at the end of this volume.
	 ὃ ἑρμ  .   ἀπεστ  . ] The reason of this derivation ( Σιλωάμ = שִׁלֹחַ ) being stated has been much doubted. Some (e.g. Lücke) consider the words to have been inserted as an early gloss of some allegorical interpreter. But there is no external authority for this; every MS. and version containing them, except the Syr [146] . and Pers. Euthym [147] says, οἶμαι διὰ τὸν ἀπεσταλμένον ἐκεῖ τότε τυφλόν . So also Nonnus: ὕδωρ στελλομένοιο προώνυμον ἐκ σέο πομπῆς : and Meyer takes this view. But it would be a violent transfer, of the name of the fountain, to the man who was sent thither. I should rather regard the healing virtue imparted to the water to be denoted, as symbolical of  Him who was sent , and whose mission it was to give the healing water of life. Aug [148] , Chrys., Thl., Erasm., Beza, Calvin, &c., and Ebrard and Luthardt, similarly refer ἀπεσταλ . to the Lord Jesus: Stier, to the Holy Spirit, but as one with, and proceeding from Christ.
	 [146] The Peschito (or simple) Syriac version. Supposed to have been made as early as the  second century . The text as edited is in a most unsatisfactory state.
	 [147] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [148]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 ἦλθεν  , came back; apparently to his own house, by the next verse.