23. scripture was fulfilled—
	Genesis 15:6, quoted by Paul, as
	realized in Abraham's justification by faith; but by James, as
	realized subsequently in Abraham's work of offering Isaac,
	which, he says, justified him. Plainly, then, James must mean
	by works the same thing as Paul means by faith, only
	that he speaks of faith at its manifested development, whereas Paul
	speaks of it in its germ. Abraham's offering of Isaac was not a mere
	act of obedience, but an act of faith. Isaac was the subject of the
	promises of God, that in him Abraham's seed should be called. The
	same God calls on Abraham to slay the subject of His own promise,
	when as yet there was no seed in whom those predictions could be
	realized. Hence James' saying that Abraham was justified by such
	a work, is equivalent to saying, as Paul does, that he was justified
	by faith itself; for it was in fact faith expressed in action,
	as in other cases saving faith is expressed in words. So Paul states
	as the mean of salvation faith expressed. The "Scripture"
	would not be "fulfilled," as James says it was, but
	contradicted by any interpretation which makes man's works
	justify him before God: for that Scripture makes no mention of works
	at all, but says that Abraham's belief was counted to him for
	righteousness. God, in the first instance, "justifies the
	ungodly" through faith; subsequently the believer is
	justified before the world as righteous through faith
	manifested in words and works (compare Genesis 15:6- :, "the righteous," Genesis 15:6- :). The best authorities read, "But Abraham believed,"
	c. 
	and he was called the Friend
	of God—He was not so called in his lifetime, though he
	was so even then from the time of his justification but he was
	called so, being recognized as such by all on the ground of
	his works of faith. "He was the friend (in an active
	sense), the lover of God, in reference to his works; and (in a
	passive sense) loved by God in reference to his justification
	by works. Both senses are united in John 15:14;
	John 15:15" [BENGEL].