13-16. We have here the
	practical application of the foregoing principles to those disciples
	who sat listening to them, and to their successors in all time. Our
	Lord, though He began by pronouncing certain characters to be
	blessed—without express reference to any of His hearers—does not
	close the beatitudes without intimating that such characters were in
	existence, and that already they were before Him. Accordingly, from
	characters He comes to persons possessing them, saying,
	"Blessed are ye when men shall revile you," c. ( :-). And now, continuing this mode of direct personal address,
	He startles those humble, unknown men by pronouncing them the exalted
	benefactors of their whole species. 
	Ye are the salt of the
	earth—to preserve it from corruption, to season its insipidity,
	to freshen and sweeten it. The value of salt for these purposes is
	abundantly referred to by classical writers as well as in Scripture
	and hence its symbolical significance in the religious offerings as
	well of those without as of those within the pale of revealed
	religion. In Scripture, mankind, under the unrestrained workings of
	their own evil nature, are represented as entirely corrupt. Thus,
	before the flood (Genesis 6:11;
	Genesis 6:12); after the flood (Genesis 6:12- :); in the days of David (Psalms 14:2;
	Psalms 14:3); in the days of Isaiah
	(Isaiah 1:5; Isaiah 1:6);
	and in the days of Paul (Isaiah 1:6- :; see also Job 14:4;
	Job 15:15; Job 15:16;
	John 3:6; compared with Romans 8:8;
	Titus 3:2; Titus 3:3).
	The remedy for this, says our Lord here, is the active presence of
	His disciples among their fellows. The character and principles of
	Christians, brought into close contact with it, are designed to
	arrest the festering corruption of humanity and season its
	insipidity. But how, it may be asked, are Christians to do this
	office for their fellow men, if their righteousness only exasperate
	them, and recoil, in every form of persecution, upon themselves? The
	answer is: That is but the first and partial effect of their
	Christianity upon the world: though the great proportion would
	dislike and reject the truth, a small but noble band would receive
	and hold it fast; and in the struggle that would ensue, one and
	another even of the opposing party would come over to His ranks, and
	at length the Gospel would carry all before it. 
	but if the salt have lost his
	savour—"become unsavory" or "insipid";
	losing its saline or salting property. The meaning is: If that
	Christianity on which the health of the world depends, does in any
	age, region, or individual, exist only in name, or if it
	contain not those saving elements for want of which the world
	languishes, 
	wherewith shall it be
	salted?—How shall the salting qualities be restored to it?
	(Compare Mark 9:50). Whether salt
	ever does lose its saline property—about which there is a
	difference of opinion—is a question of no moment here. The point of
	the case lies in the supposition—that if it should lose it,
	the consequence would be as here described. So with Christians. The
	question is not: Can, or do, the saints ever totally lose that grace
	which makes them a blessing to their fellow men? But, What is to be
	the issue of that Christianity which is found wanting in those
	elements which can alone stay the corruption and season the
	tastelessness of an all-pervading carnality? The restoration or
	non-restoration of grace, or true living Christianity, to
	those who have lost it, has, in our judgment, nothing at all to do
	here. The question is not, If a man lose his grace, how shall that
	grace be restored to him? but, Since living Christianity is the only
	"salt of the earth," if men lose that, what else can
	supply its place? What follows is the appalling answer to this
	question. 
	it is thenceforth good for
	nothing, but to be cast out—a figurative expression of
	indignant exclusion from the kingdom of God (compare Matthew 8:12;
	Matthew 22:13; John 6:37;
	John 9:34). 
	and to be trodden under foot
	of men—expressive of contempt and scorn. It is not the mere
	want of a certain character, but the want of it in those whose
	profession and appearance were fitted to beget
	expectation of finding it.