5. Blessed are the meek: for they
	shall inherit the earth—This promise to the meek is but a
	repetition of Psalms 37:11; only
	the word which our Evangelist renders "the meek," after the
	Septuagint, is the same which we have found so often
	translated "the poor," showing how closely allied these two
	features of character are. It is impossible, indeed, that "the
	poor in spirit" and "the mourners" in Zion should not
	at the same time be "meek"; that is to say, persons of a
	lowly and gentle carriage. How fitting, at least, it is that they
	should be so, may be seen by the following touching appeal: "Put
	them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey
	magistrates, to be ready to every good work, to speak evil of no man,
	to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men:
	FOR WE OURSELVES WERE ONCE
	FOOLISH, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and
	pleasures . . . But after that the kindness and love of God our
	Saviour toward man appeared: . . . according to His mercy He saved
	us," c. (Titus 3:1-7).
	But He who had no such affecting reasons for manifesting this
	beautiful carriage, said, nevertheless, of Himself, "Take My
	yoke upon you, and learn of Me for I am meek and lowly in heart: and
	ye shall find rest unto your souls" (Titus 3:1-56.3.7- :); and the apostle besought one of the churches by "the
	meekness and gentleness of Christ" (Titus 3:1-56.3.7- :). In what esteem this is held by Him who seeth not as man
	seeth, we may learn from 1 Peter 3:4,
	where the true adorning is said to be that of "a meek and quiet
	spirit, which in the sight of God is of great price." Towards
	men this disposition is the opposite of high-mindedness, and a
	quarrelsome and revengeful spirit; it "rather takes wrong, and
	suffers itself to be defrauded" (1 Peter 3:4- :); it "avenges not itself, but rather gives place unto
	wrath" (Romans 12:19); like
	the meek One, "when reviled, it reviles not again; when it
	suffers, it threatens not: but commits itself to Him that judgeth
	righteously" (Romans 12:19- :). "The earth" which the meek are to inherit
	might be rendered "the land"—bringing out the more
	immediate reference to Canaan as the promised land, the secure
	possession of which was to the Old Testament saints the evidence and
	manifestation of God's favor resting on them, and the ideal of all
	true and abiding blessedness. Even in the Psalm from which these
	words are taken the promise to the meek is not held forth as an
	arbitrary reward, but as having a kind of natural fulfilment. When
	they delight themselves in the Lord, He gives them the desires of
	their heart: when they commit their way to Him, He brings it to pass;
	bringing forth their righteousness as the light, and their judgment
	as the noonday: the little that they have, even when despoiled of
	their rights, is better than the riches of many wicked (Romans 12:19- :). All things, in short, are theirs—in the possession of
	that favor which is life, and of those rights which belong to them as
	the children of God—whether the world, or life, or death, or things
	present, or things to come; all are theirs (1 Corinthians 3:21;
	1 Corinthians 3:22); and at length,
	overcoming, they "inherit all things" (1 Corinthians 3:22- :). Thus are the meek the only rightful occupants of a foot of
	ground or a crust of bread here, and heirs of all coming things.