5. white—not a dull white, but
	glittering, dazzling white [GROTIUS].
	Compare Matthew 13:43. The body
	transfigured into the likeness of Christ's body, and emitting beams
	of light reflected from Him, is probably the "white raiment"
	promised here. 
	the same—Greek,
	"THIS man"; he
	and he alone. So one oldest manuscript reads. But two oldest
	manuscripts, and most of the ancient versions, "shall THUS
	be clothed," c. 
	raiment—Greek,
	"garments." "He that overcometh" shall receive
	the same reward as they who "have not defiled their garments"
	(Revelation 3:4) therefore the two are
	identical. 
	I will not—Greek,
	"I will not by any means." 
	blot out . . . name out of .
	. . book of life—of the heavenly city. A register was kept in
	ancient cities of their citizens: the names of the dead were of
	course erased. So those who have a name that they live and are
	dead (Revelation 3:1), are blotted
	out of God's roll of the heavenly citizens and heirs of eternal life;
	not that in God's electing decree they ever were in His book of life.
	But, according to human conceptions, those who had a high name for
	piety would be supposed to be in it, and were, in respect to
	privileges, actually among those in the way of salvation; but these
	privileges, and the fact that they once might have been saved, shall
	be of no avail to them. As to the book of life, compare
	Revelation 13:8; Revelation 17:8;
	Revelation 20:12; Revelation 20:15;
	Revelation 21:27; Exodus 32:32;
	Psalms 69:28; Daniel 12:1.
	In the sense of the "call," many are enrolled among the
	called to salvation, who shall not be found among the
	chosen at last. The pale of salvation is wider than that of
	election. Election is fixed. Salvation is open to all and is pending
	(humanly speaking) in the case of those mentioned here. But Revelation 20:15;
	Revelation 21:27, exhibit the book of
	the elect alone in the narrower sense, after the erasure of the
	others. 
	before . . . before—Greek,
	"in the presence of." Compare the same promise of Christ's
	confessing before His Father those who confessed Him, Matthew 10:32;
	Matthew 10:33; Luke 12:8;
	Luke 12:9. He omits "in
	heaven" after "My Father," because there is, now that
	He is in heaven, no contrast between the Father in heaven and
	the Son on earth. He now sets His seal from heaven upon many
	of His words uttered on earth [TRENCH].
	An undesigned coincidence, proving that these epistles are, as they
	profess, in their words, as well as substance, Christ's own
	addresses; not even tinged with the color of John's style, such as it
	appears in his Gospel and Epistles. The coincidence is mainly with
	the three other Gospels, and not with John's, which makes the
	coincidence more markedly undesigned. So also the clause, "He
	that hath an ear, let him hear," is not repeated from John's
	Gospel, but from the Lord's own words in the three synoptic Gospels
	(Matthew 11:15; Matthew 13:9;
	Mark 4:9; Mark 4:23;
	Mark 7:16; Luke 8:8;
	Luke 14:35).