7. Philadelphia—in Lydia,
	twenty-eight miles southeast of Sardis, built by Attalus
	Philadelphus, king of Pergamos, who died A.D.
	138. It was nearly destroyed by an earthquake in the reign of
	Tiberius [TACITUS, Annals,
	2.47]. The connection of this Church with Jews there causes the
	address to it to have an Old Testament coloring in the images
	employed. It and Smyrna alone of the seven receive unmixed praise. 
	he that is holy—as in
	the Old Testament, "the Holy One of Israel." Thus
	Jesus and the God of the Old Testament are one. None but God is
	absolutely holy (Greek, "hagios," separate
	from evil and perfectly hating it). In contrast to "the
	synagogue of Satan" (Revelation 3:9).
	true—Greek,
	"alethinos": "VERY
	God," as distinguished from the false gods and from all those
	who say that they are what they are not (Revelation 3:9- :): real, genuine. Furthermore, He perfectly realizes
	all that is involved in the names, GOD,
	Light (John 1:9; 1 John 2:8),
	Bread (John 6:32), the
	Vine (John 15:1); as
	distinguished from all typical, partial, and imperfect realizations
	of the idea. His nature answers to His name (John 17:3;
	1 Thessalonians 1:9). The Greek,
	"alethes," on the other hand, is "truth-speaking,"
	"truth-loving" (John 3:33;
	Titus 1:2). 
	he that hath the key of
	David—the antitype of Eliakim, to whom the "key," the
	emblem of authority "over the house of David," was
	transferred from Shebna, who was removed from the office of
	chamberlain or treasurer, as unworthy of it. Christ, the Heir of the
	throne of David, shall supplant all the less worthy stewards who have
	abused their trust in God's spiritual house, and "shall reign
	over the house of Jacob," literal and spiritual (Luke 1:32;
	Luke 1:33), "for ever,"
	"as a Son over His own house" (Luke 1:33- :). It rests with Christ to open or shut the heavenly palace,
	deciding who is, and who is not, to be admitted: as He also opens, or
	shuts, the prison, having the keys of hell (the grave)
	and death (Revelation 1:18). The
	power of the keys was given to Peter and the other apostles, only
	when, and in so far as, Christ made him and them infallible. Whatever
	degrees of this power may have been committed to ministers, the
	supreme power belongs to Christ alone. Thus Peter rightly opened the
	Gospel door to the Gentiles (Acts 10:1-48;
	Acts 11:17; Acts 11:18;
	especially Acts 14:27, end). But
	he wrongly tried to shut the door in part again (Acts 14:27- :). Eliakim had "the key of the house of David laid
	upon his shoulder": Christ, as the antitypical David, Himself
	has the key of the supreme "government upon His shoulder."
	His attribute here, as in the former addresses, accords with His
	promise. Though "the synagogue of Satan," false "Jews"
	(Revelation 3:9) try to "shut"
	the "door" which I "set open before thee"; "no
	man can shut it" (Revelation 3:8). 
	shutteth—So Vulgate
	and Syriac Versions read. But the four oldest manuscripts
	read, "shall shut"; so Coptic Version and ORIGEN.
	and no man openeth—Two
	oldest manuscripts, B, Aleph, Coptic Version, and
	ORIGEN read, "shall
	open." Two oldest manuscripts, A, C, and Vulgate Version
	support English Version reading.