3. how thou hast received—
	(Colossians 2:6; 1 Thessalonians 4:1;
	1 Timothy 6:20). What Sardis is to
	"remember" is, not how joyfully she had received
	originally the Gospel message, but how the precious deposit was
	committed to her originally, so that she could not say, she had not
	"received and heard" it. The Greek is not aorist (as
	in Revelation 2:4, as to Ephesus, "Thou
	didst leave thy first love"), but "thou hast
	received" (perfect), and still hast the permanent deposit of
	doctrine committed to thee. The word "keep" (so the Greek
	is for English Version, "hold fast") which follows,
	accords with this sense. "Keep" or observe the commandment
	which thou hast received and didst hear. 
	heard—Greek
	aorist, "didst hear," namely, when the Gospel doctrine was
	committed to thee. TRENCH
	explains "how," with what demonstration of the Spirit
	and power from Christ's ambassadors the truth came to you, and
	how heartily and zealously you at first received it. Similarly
	BENGEL, "Regard to
	her former character (how it once stood) ought to guard
	Sardis against the future hour, whatsoever it shall be,
	proving fatal to her." But it is not likely that the Spirit
	repeats the same exhortation virtually to Sardis as to Ephesus. 
	If therefore—seeing
	thou art so warned, if, nevertheless, c. 
	come on thee as a thief—in
	special judgment on thee as a Church, with the same stealthiness and
	as unexpectedly as shall be My visible second coming. As the thief
	gives no notice of his approach. Christ applies the language which in
	its fullest sense describes His second coming, to describe His coming
	in special judgments on churches and states (as Jerusalem, Revelation 2:4- :) these special judgments being anticipatory earnests of
	that great last coming. "The last day is hidden from us, that
	every day may be observed by us" [AUGUSTINE].
	Twice Christ in the days of His flesh spake the same words (Matthew 24:42
Matthew 24:43; Luke 12:39;
	Luke 12:40); and so deeply had His
	words been engraven on the minds of the apostles that they are often
	repeated in their writings (Revelation 16:15;
	1 Thessalonians 5:2; 1 Thessalonians 5:4;
	1 Thessalonians 5:6; 2 Peter 3:10).
	The Greek proverb was that "the feet of the avenging deities are
	shod with wool," expressing the noiseless approach of the divine
	judgments, and their possible nearness at the moment when they were
	supposed the farthest off [TRENCH].