20. stand—waiting in wonderful
	condescension and long-suffering. 
	knock— ( :-). This is a further manifestation of His loving desire for
	the sinner's salvation. He who is Himself "the Door," and
	who bids us "knock" that it may be "opened unto"
	us, is first Himself to knock at the door of our hearts. If He did
	not knock first, we should never come to knock at His door. Compare
	Song of Solomon 5:4-6, which is
	plainly alluded to here; the Spirit thus in Revelation sealing the
	canonicity of that mystical book. The spiritual state of the bride
	there, between waking and sleeping, slow to open the
	door to her divine lover, answers to that of the lukewarm
	Laodicea here. "Love in regard to men emptied (humbled) God; for
	He does not remain in His place and call to Himself the servant whom
	He loved, but He comes down Himself to seek him, and He who is
	all-rich arrives at the lodging of the pauper, and with His own voice
	intimates His yearning love, and seeks a similar return, and
	withdraws not when disowned, and is not impatient at insult, and when
	persecuted still waits at the doors" [NICOLAUS
	CABASILAS in TRENCH].
	my voice—He appeals to
	the sinner not only with His hand (His providences) knocking,
	but with His voice (His word read or heard; or rather, His
	Spirit inwardly applying to man's spirit the lessons to be drawn from
	His providence and His word). If we refuse to answer to His knocking
	at our door now, He will refuse to hear our knocking at His door
	hereafter. In respect to His second coming also, He is even now at
	the door, and we know not how soon He may knock: therefore
	we should always be ready to open to Him immediately.
if any man hear—for man
	is not compelled by irresistible force: Christ knocks, but
	does not break open the door, though the violent take heaven by the
	force of prayer (Matthew 11:12):
	whosoever does hear, does so not of himself, but by the drawings
	of God's grace (John 6:44):
	repentance is Christ's gift (John 6:44- :). He draws, not drags. The Sun of righteousness, like
	the natural sun, the moment that the door is opened, pours in
	His light, which could not previously find an entrance. Compare
	HILARY on Psalm 118:19. 
	I will come in to him—as
	I did to Zaccheus. 
	sup with him, and he with
	me—Delightful reciprocity! Compare "dwelleth in me, and I
	in Him," John 6:56.
	Whereas, ordinarily, the admitted guest sups with the admitter, here
	the divine guest becomes Himself the host, for He is the bread of
	life, and the Giver of the marriage feast. Here again He alludes to
	the imagery of Song of Solomon 4:16, where
	the Bride invites Him to eat pleasant fruits, even as He had
	first prepared a feast for her, "His fruit was sweet to my
	taste." Compare the same interchange, Song of Solomon 4:16- :, the feast being made up of the viands that Jesus
	brought, and those which the disciples brought. The consummation of
	this blessed intercommunion shall be at the Marriage Supper of the
	Lamb, of which the Lord's Supper is the earnest and foretaste.