12. pillar in the temple—In
	one sense there shall be "no temple" in the heavenly city
	because there shall be no distinction of things into sacred and
	secular, for all things and persons shall be holy to the Lord. The
	city shall be all one great temple, in which the saints shall be not
	merely stones, as m the spiritual temple now on earth, but all
	eminent as pillars: immovably firm (unlike Philadelphia, the
	city which was so often shaken by earthquakes, STRABO
	[12 and 13]), like the colossal pillars before Solomon's temple, Boaz
	(that is, "In it is strength") and Jachin ("It shall
	be established"): only that those pillars were outside, these
	shall be within the temple. 
	my God—(See on  :-). 
	go no more out—The
	Greek is stronger, never more at all. As the elect
	angels are beyond the possibility of falling, being now under (as the
	Schoolmen say) "the blessed necessity of goodness," so
	shall the saints be. The door shall be once for all shut, as well to
	shut safely in for ever the elect, as to shut out the lost (Matthew 25:10;
	John 8:35; compare John 8:35- :, the type, Eliakim). They shall be priests for ever unto
	God (Revelation 1:6). "Who would
	not yearn for that city out of which no friend departs, and into
	which no enemy enters?" [AUGUSTINE
	in TRENCH]. 
	write upon him the name of my
	God—as belonging to God in a peculiar sense (Revelation 7:3;
	Revelation 9:4; Revelation 14:1;
	and especially Revelation 22:4),
	therefore secure. As the name of Jehovah ("Holiness to the
	Lord") was on the golden plate on the high priest's forehead (Revelation 22:4- :); so the saints in their heavenly royal priesthood shall
	bear His name openly, as consecrated to Him. Compare the caricature
	of this in the brand on the forehead of the beast's followers
	(Revelation 13:16; Revelation 13:17),
	and on the harlot (Revelation 17:5;
	compare Revelation 20:4). 
	name of the city of my God—as
	one of its citizens (Revelation 21:2;
	Revelation 21:3; Revelation 21:10,
	which is briefly alluded to by anticipation here). The full
	description of the city forms the appropriate close of the book. The
	saint's citizenship is now hidden, but then it shall be manifested:
	he shall have the right to enter in through the gates into the
	city (Revelation 22:14). This was
	the city which Abraham looked for.
new—Greek,
	"kaine." Not the old Jerusalem, once called "the
	holy city," but having forfeited the name. Greek, "nea,"
	would express that it had recently come into existence; but
	Greek, "kaine," that which is new and
	different, superseding the worn-out old Jerusalem and its polity.
	"John, in the Gospel, applies to the old city the Greek
	name Hierosolyma. But in the Apocalypse, always, to the
	heavenly city the Hebrew name, Hierousalem. The Hebrew
	name is the original and holier one: the Greek, the recent and
	more secular and political one" [BENGEL].
	my new name—at present
	incommunicable and only known to God: to be hereafter revealed and
	made the believer's own in union with God in Christ. Christ's name
	written on him denotes he shall be wholly Christ's. New also
	relates to Christ, who shall assume a new character (answering
	to His "new name") entering with His saints on a
	kingdom—not that which He had with the Father before the worlds,
	but that earned by His humiliation as Son of man. GIBBON,
	the infidel [Decline and Fall, ch. 64], gives an unwilling
	testimony to the fulfilment of the prophecy as to Philadelphia from a
	temporal point of view, Among the Greek colonies and churches of
	Asia, Philadelphia is still erect,—a column in a scene of
	ruins—a pleasing example that the paths of honor and safety may
	sometimes be the same."