23. And—rather, "But"
	he that doubteth is damned—On
	the word "damnation," see on  :-. 
	if he eat, because he eateth
	not of faith—On the meaning of "faith" here, see on
	Romans 14:1. 
	for whatsoever is not of
	faith is sin—a maxim of unspeakable importance in the Christian
	life. 
	Note, (1) Some points in
	Christianity are unessential to Christian fellowship; so that though
	one may be in error upon them, he is not on that account to be
	excluded either from the communion of the Church or from the full
	confidence of those who have more light. This distinction between
	essential and non-essential truths is denied by some who affect more
	than ordinary zeal for the honor and truth of God. But they must
	settle the question with our apostle. (2) Acceptance with God is the
	only proper criterion of right to Christian fellowship. Whom God
	receives, men cannot lawfully reject (Romans 14:3;
	Romans 14:4). (3) As there is much
	self-pleasing in setting up narrow standards of Christian fellowship,
	so one of the best preservatives against the temptation to do this
	will be found in the continual remembrance that CHRIST
	is the one Object for whom all Christians live, and to whom all
	Christians die; this will be such a living and exalted bond of union
	between the strong and the weak as will overshadow all their lesser
	differences and gradually absorb them (Romans 14:4- :). (4) The consideration of the common judgment-seat at
	which the strong and the weak shall stand together will be found
	another preservative against the unlovely disposition to sit in
	judgment one on another (Romans 14:4- :). (5) How brightly does the supreme Divinity of Christ
	shine out in this chapter! The exposition itself supersedes further
	illustration here. (6) Though forbearance be a great Christian duty,
	indifference to the distinction between truth and error is not
	thereby encouraged. The former is, by the tax, made an excuse for the
	latter. But our apostle, while teaching "the strong" to
	bear with "the weak," repeatedly intimates in this chapter
	where the truth really lay on the points in question, and takes care
	to call those who took the wrong side "the weak" (Romans 14:1;
	Romans 14:2; Romans 14:14).
	(7) With what holy jealousy ought the purity of the conscience to be
	guarded, since every deliberate violation of it is incipient
	perdition (Romans 14:15; Romans 14:20)!
	Some, who seem to be more jealous for the honor of certain doctrines
	than for the souls of men, enervate this terrific truth by asking how
	it bears upon the "perseverance of the saints"; the
	advocates of that doctrine thinking it necessary to explain away what
	is meant by "destroying the work of God" (Romans 14:20- :), and "destroying him for whom Christ died" (Romans 14:20- :), for fear of the doctrinal consequences of taking it
	nakedly; while the opponents of that doctrine are ready to ask, How
	could the apostle have used such language if he had believed that
	such a catastrophe was impossible? The true answer to both lies in
	dismissing the question as impertinent. The apostle is enunciating a
	great and eternal principle in Christian Ethics—that the wilful
	violation of conscience contains within itself a seed of destruction;
	or, to express it otherwise, that the total destruction of the work
	of God in the renewed soul, and, consequently, the loss of that soul
	for eternity, needs only the carrying out to its full effect of such
	violation of the conscience. Whether such effects do take
	place, in point of fact, the apostle gives not the most distant hint
	here; and therefore that point must be settled elsewhere. But, beyond
	all doubt, as the position we have laid down is emphatically
	expressed by the apostle, so the interests of all who call themselves
	Christians require to be proclaimed and pressed on every suitable
	occasion. (8) Zeal for comparatively small points of truth is a poor
	substitute for the substantial and catholic and abiding realities of
	the Christian life (Romans 14:17;
	Romans 14:18). (9) "Peace"
	among the followers of Christ is a blessing too precious to
	themselves, and, as a testimony to them that are without, too
	important, to be ruptured for trifles, even though some lesser truths
	be involved in these (Romans 14:19;
	Romans 14:20). Nor are those truths
	themselves disparaged or endangered thereby, but the reverse. (10)
	Many things which are lawful are not expedient. In the use of any
	liberty, therefore, our question should be, not simply, Is this
	lawful? but even if so, Can it be used with safety to a brother's
	conscience?—How will it affect my brother's soul (Romans 14:20- :)? It is permitted to no Christian to say with Cain, "Am
	I my brother's keeper?" (Romans 14:20- :). (11) Whenever we are in doubt as to a point of duty—where
	abstinence is manifestly sinless, but compliance not clearly
	lawful—the safe course is ever to be preferred, for to do otherwise
	is itself sinful. (12) How exalted and beautiful is the Ethics of
	Christianity—by a few great principles teaching us how to steer our
	course amidst practical difficulties, with equal regard to Christian
	liberty, love, and confidence!