Verse 3 John 1:14. Peace be to thee. — Mayest thou possess every requisite good, both of a spiritual and temporal kind.Our friends salute thee. — Desire to be affectionately remembered to thee. Greet the friends by name - remember me to all those with whom I am acquainted, as if I had specified them by name. This is a proof to me that this epistle was not sent to Corinth, where it is not likely John ever was; and where it is not likely he had any particular acquaintances, unless we could suppose he had seen some of them when he was an exile in Patmos, an island in the AEgean Sea.For other particulars concerning John, the reader is requested to refer to the preface to his gospel.Instead of φιλοι and φιλους, friends, the Codex Alexandrinus and several others read αδελφοι and αδελφους, brethren. The former (friends) is a very singular appellation, and nowhere else found in Scripture; the latter is of frequent occurrence.Subscriptions in the VERSIONS: - In the ancient SYRIAC. - Nothing.The Third Epistle of John the apostle is ended. - SYRIAC Philoxenian.AETHIOPIC. - Nothing.VULGATE. - Nothing.The end of the epistles of the pure Apostle and Evangelist John. - ARABIC.The Third Epistle of St. John the apostle is ended. - Latin text of the COMPLUTENSIAN.The end of the Third catholic Epistle of St John. - DITTO, Greek text.Subscriptions in the Manuscripts: - The third of John. - CODD. ALEX. and VATICAN.The Third catholic Epistle of John the evangelist and divine.The third of John to Caius concerning Demetrius, of whom he witnesses the most excellent things.I have already shown in the preface to those epistles termed catholic, that the word καθολικος is not to be taken here, and elsewhere in these epistles, as signifying universal, but canonical; for it would be absurd to call an epistle universal that was written to a private individual.We seldom hear this epistle quoted but in the reproof of lordly tyrants, or prating troublesome fellows in the Church. And yet the epistle contains many excellent sentiments, which, if judiciously handled, might be very useful to the Church of God. But it has been the lot both of the minor prophets and the minor epistles to be generally neglected; for with many readers bulk is every thing; and, no magnitude no goodness.This and the preceding epistle both read over in reference to a new edition, Jan. 3rd, 1832. - A. C.