 Other sheep  (αλλα προβατα). Sheep, not goats, but "not of this fold" (εκ της αυλης ταυτης). See verse John 10:1 for αυλη. Clearly "his flock is not confined to those enclosed in the Jewish fold, whether in Palestine or elsewhere" (Westcott). Christ's horizon takes in all men of all races and times (John 11:52; John 12:32). The world mission of Christ for all nations is no new idea with him (Matthew 8:11; Luke 13:28). God loved the world and gave his Son for the race (Jον 3:16),Them also I must bring  (κακεινα δε με αγαγειν). Second aorist active infinitive of αγω with δε expressing the moral urgency of Christ's passion for God's people in all lands and ages. Missions in Christ's mind takes in the whole world. This is according to prophecy (Isaiah 42:6; Isaiah 49:6; Isaiah 56:8) for the Messiah is to be a Light also to the Gentiles. It was typified by the brazen serpent (John 3:14). Christ died for every man. The Pharisees doubtless listened in amazement and even the disciples with slow comprehension.And they shall hear my voice  (κα της φωνης μου ακουσοντα). Future middle indicative of ακουω with the genitive φωνης. These words read like a transcript from the Acts and the Epistles of Paul (John 10:9-11 in particular). See especially Paul's words in Acts 28:28. Present-day Christianity is here foretold. Only do we really listen to the voice of the Shepherd as we should? Jesus means that the Gentiles will hearken if the Jews turn away from him.And they shall become one flock, one shepherd  (κα γενησοντα μια ποιμνη, εις ποιμην). Future middle indicative of γινομα, plural, not singular γενησετα as some MSS. have it. All (Jews and Gentiles) will form one flock under one Shepherd. Note the distinction here by Jesus between ποιμνη (old word, contraction of ποιμενη from ποιμην, shepherd), as in Matthew 26:31, and αυλη (fold) just before. There may be many folds of the one flock. Jerome in his Vulgate confused this distinction, but he is wrong. His use of ovile for both αυλη and πομνιον has helped Roman Catholic assumptions. Christ's use of "flock" (ποιμνη) here is just another metaphor for kingdom (βασιλεια) in Matthew 8:11 where the children of the kingdom come from all climes and nations. See also the various metaphors in John 10:2 for this same idea. There is only the one Great Shepherd of the sheep (Hebrews 13:20), Jesus Christ our Lord. 