 4 .] (This positive requisite again seems to spring out of the negative ones which have preceded, and especially out of ἀφιλάργυρον . The negatives are again resumed below with μὴ νεόφυτον )  presiding well over his own house (  ἰδίου , as contrasted with the church of God below,  οἴκου , in its wide acceptation, ‘  household ,’ including all its members),  having children (not ‘  keeping (or  having )  his children ’ ( ἔχοντα τὰ τέκνα ), as E. V. and Conyb. The emphatic position of τέκνα , besides its anarthrousness, should have prevented this mistake: cf. also Titus 1:6 , μιᾶς γυναικὸς ἀνήρ , τέκνα ἔχων πιστά , κ . τ . λ .)  in subjection (i.e. who are in subjection)  with all gravity (‘  reverent modesty ,’ see ch. 1 Timothy 2:2 . These words are best applied to the  children , not to the head of the house, which acceptance of them rather belongs to the rendering impugned above. It is the σεμνότης of the children, the result of his προστῆναι , which is to prove that he  knows how to preside over his own house, not his own σεμνότης in governing them: the matter of fact, that he has children who are in subjection to him in all gravity, not his own keeping or endeavouring to keep them so. Want of  success in ruling at home, not want of will to rule, would disqualify him for ruling the church. So that the distinction is an important one):  but (contrast, as in ch. 1 Timothy 2:12 , to the suppressed but imagined opposite case)  if any man knows not (the use of  εἰ οὐ here is perfectly regular: see Ellicott’s note)  how to preside over his own house (shews, by his children being insubordinate, that he has no skill in domestic government),  how shall he (this future includes ‘  how can he ,’ but goes beyond it appealing, not to the man’s power, which conditions his success, but to the resulting matter of fact, which will be sure to substantiate his failure)  take charge of (so Plato, Gorg. p. 520 a: οἱ φάσκοντες προεστάναι τῆς πόλεως καὶ ἐπιμελεῖσθαι )  the church of God ( ὁ τὰ σμικρὰ οἰκονομεῖν οὐκ εἰδώς , πῶς δύναται τῶν κρειττόνων καὶ θείων πιστευθῆναι τὴν ἐπιμέλειαν ; Thdrt. See the idea followed out popularly in Chrys.)  ?