 8 .] The construction continues from the preceding the δεῖ εἶναι being in the Apostle’s mind as governing the accusatives.
	 In like manner (the ὡσαύτως seems introduced by the similarity of character, not merely to mark an additional particular)  the deacons (mentioned as a class, besides here, only Philippians 1:1 , where, as here, they follow the ἐπίσκοποι . Phœbe, Romans 16:1 , is a διάκονος of the church at Cenchrea. The term or its cognates occur in a vaguer sense, but still indicating a special office, in Romans 12:7 ; 1 Peter 4:11 . The connexion of the ecclesiastical deacons with the seven appointed in Acts 6:0 . is very doubtful: see Chrysostom’s and Œe.’s testimony, distinguishing them, in note there. But that the ecclesiastical order sprung out of similar necessities, and had for its field of work similar objects, can hardly be doubted. See Suicer, διάκονος : Winer, Realw.: Neander, Pfl. u. Leit. i. p. 54 note) (  must be )  grave, not of double speech (= δίγλωσσος , Proverbs 11:13 (Ellic. adds διχόμυθος , Eurip. Orest. 890), not quite as Thl. ἄλλα φρονοῦντας κ . ἄλλα λέγοντας , but rather as Thdrt. (and Thl., additional), ἕτερα τούτῳ , ἕτερα δὲ ἐκείνῳ λέγοντας ),  not addicted (applying themselves, reff.)  to much wine (= μὴ οἴνῳ πολλῷ δεδουλωμένας , Tit 2:3 ),  not greedy of gain (hardly, as E. V., to be  doubly rendered , ‘  greedy of filthy lucre,’ so also Thdrt., ὁ ἐκ πραγμάτων αἰσχρῶν κ . λίαν ἀτόπων κέρδη συλλέγειν ἀνεχόμενος . It would appear from Titus 1:11 , διδάσκοντες ἃ μὴ δεῖ αἰσχροῦ κέρδους χάριν , that all κέρδος is αἰσχρόν which is set before a man as a by-end in his work for God: so likewise in 1 Peter 5:2 , ἐπισκοποῦντες μὴ … μηδὲ αἰσχροκερδῶς … ‘nor with a view to gain,’ such gain being necessarily base when thus sought. This particular of the deacons’ character assumes special importance, if we connect it with the collecting and distributing alms. Cyprian, Ep. 54 (12 ad Corn. Pap. § 1, Migne, Patr. Gr. vol. iii. p. 797), stigmatizes the deacon Felicissimus as ‘pecuniæ commissæsibi fraudator’)  holding the mystery of the (or  their )  faith (that great objective truth which man of himself knows not, but which the Spirit of God reveals to the faithful: cf. Romans 16:25 f.: 1 Corinthians 2:7-10 ; and even Him who in fact  is that mystery, the great object of all faith: see note on 1 Timothy 3:16 , τὸ τῆς εὐσεβείας μυστήριον . That expression makes it probable that τῆς πίστεως is here to be taken subjectively:  the , or  their, faith : the apprehension which appropriates to them the contents of God’s revelation of Christ. That revelation of the Person of Christ, their faith’s μυστήριον , they are to hold. See Ellic.’s note)  in pure conscience (see reff. and ch. 1 Timothy 1:19 . From those passages it appears, that we must not give the words a special application to their official life as deacons, but understand them of earnestness and singleness of Christian character: being in heart persuaded of the truth of that divine mystery which they profess to have apprehended by faith).