 1 .]  Faithful is the saying (see on ch. 1 Timothy 1:15 , from the analogy of which it appears that the words are to be referred to what follows, not, as Chrys., Thl., Erasm., al., to what has preceded):  if any man seeks (it does not seem that he uses ὀρέγεται with any reference to an ambitious seeking, as De W. thinks: in Heb 11:16 the word is a ‘vox media,’ and even in ch. 1 Timothy 6:10 , the blame rests, not on ὀρεγόμενοι , but on the thing sought; and in Polyb. ix. 20. 5, the word is used as one merely of passage, in giving directions respecting the office sought: κελεύοντες ἀστρολογεῖν κ . γεωμετρεῖν τοὺς ὀρεγομένους αὐτῆς ( τῆς στρατηγίας ). So that De W.’s inference respecting ambition for the episcopate betraying the late age of the Epistle, falls to the ground)  the overseership (or, bishopric; office of an ἐπίσκοπος ; but the ἐπίσκοποι of the N. T. have officially nothing in common with our  Bishops . See notes on Acts 20:17 ; Acts 20:28 . The identity of the ἐπίσκοπος and πρεσβύτερος in apostolic times is evident from Titus 1:5-7 ; see also note on Philippians 1:1 , the article  Bischof in Herzog’s Real-Encyclopädie, and Ellic.’s note here),  he desires a good work (not ‘a good  thing :’ but a good  employment : see 1 Thessalonians 5:13 ; 2 Timothy 4:5 ; one of the καλὰ ἔργα so often spoken of (reff.)).  It behoves then (  οὖν is best regarded as taking up καλὸν ἔργον , and substantiating that assertion: “bonum negotium bonis committendum,” Bengel)  an ( τόν generic, singular of τοὺς ἐπισκόπους )  overseer to be blameless (Thucyd. v. 17, Πλειστοάναξ δὲ … νομίζων … κἂν αὐτὸς τοῖς ἐχθροῖς ἀνεπίληπτος εἶναι …, where the Schol. has, μὴ ἂν αὐτὸς παρέξων κατηγορίας ἀφορμήν . Thdrt. draws an important distinction: μηδεμίαν πρόφασιν μέμψεως παρέχειν δικαίαν · τὸ γὰρ ἀνεπίληπτον , οὐ τὸ ἀσυκοφάντητον λέγει · ἐπεὶ καὶ αὐτὸς ἀπόστολος παντοδαπὰς συκοφαντίας ὑπέμεινεν ),  husband of one wife (two great varieties of interpretation of these words have prevailed, among those who agree to take them as  restrictive , not  injunctive , which the spirit of the passage and the insertion of μιᾶς surely alike forbid. They have been supposed to prohibit either 1)  simultaneous polygamy , or 2)  successive polygamy . 1) has somewhat to be said for it. The custom of polygamy was then prevalent among the Jews (see Just. Mart. Tryph. 134, p. 226, διδασκάλοις ὑμῶν οἵτινες καὶ μέχρι νῦν καὶ τέσσαρας κ . πέντε ἔχειν ὑμᾶς γυναῖκας ἕκαστον συγχωροῦσι : and Jos. Antt. vii. 2 (so cited in Suicer and Huther, but the reference is wrong), πάτριον ἐν ταύτῳ πλείοσιν ἡμῖν συνοικεῖν ), and might easily find its way into the Christian community. And such, it is argued, was the Apostle’s reference, not to second marriages, which he himself commands ch. 1 Timothy 5:14 , and allows in several other places, e.g. Romans 7:2-3 ; 1 Corinthians 7:39 . But the objection to taking this meaning is, that the Apostle would hardly have specified that as a requisite for the episcopate or presbyterate, which we know to have been fulfilled by all Christians whatever: no instance being adduced of polygamy being practised in the Christian church, and no exhortations to abstain from it. As to St. Paul’s command and permissions, see below. Still, we must not lose sight of the circumstance that the earlier Commentators were unanimous for this view. Chrys. is the only one who proposes an alternative: τὴν ἀμετρίαν κωλύει , ἐπειδὴ ἐπὶ τῶν Ἰουδαίων ἐξῆν καὶ δευτέροις ὁμιλεῖν γάμοις , κ . δύο ἔχειν κατὰ ταὐτὸν γυναῖκας . Thdrt.: τὸ δὲ μιᾶς γυναικὸς ἄνδρα , εὖ μοι δοκοῦσιν εἰρηκέναι τινές . πάλαι γὰρ εἰώθεισαν καὶ Ἕλληνες κ . Ἰουδαῖοι κ . δύο κ . τρισὶ κ . πλείοσι γυναιξὶ νόμῳ γάμου κατὰ ταὐτὸν συνοικεῖν . τινὲς δὲ καὶ νῦν , καίτοι τῶν βασιλικῶν νόμων δύο κατὰ ταὐτὸν ἄγεσθαι κωλυόντων γυναῖκας , καὶ παλλακῖσι μίγνυνται κ . ἑταίραις . ἔφασαν τοίνυν τὸν θεῖον ἀπόστολον εἰρηκέναι , τὸν μιᾷ μόνῃ γυναικὶ συνοικοῦντα σωφρόνως , τῆς ἐπισκοπικῆς ἄξιον εἶναι χειροτονίας . οὐ γὰρ τὸν δεύτερον , φασίν , ἐξέβαλε γάμον , ὅ γε πολλάκις τοῦτο γενέσθαι κελεύσας . And similarly Thl., Œc., and Jeremiah 2:0 ) For the view that  second marriages are prohibited to aspirants after the episcopate, is, the most probable meaning (see there) of ἑνὸς ἀνδρὸς γυνή in ch. 1 Timothy 5:9 , as also the wide prevalence in the early Church of the idea that, although second marriages were not forbidden to Christians, abstinence from them was better than indulgence in them. So Hermas Pastor, ii. 4. 4, p. 921 f., ‘Domine, si vir vel mulier alicujus discesserit, et nupserit aliquis eorum, numquid peccat?’ ‘Qui nubit, non peccat: sed si per se manserit, magnum sibi conquirit honorem apud Dominum:’ and Clem. Alex. Strom. iii. 12 (81), p. 548 P., ὁ ἀπόστολος ( 1Co 7:39-40 ) δι ʼ ἀκρασίαν κ . πύρωσιν κατὰ συγγνώμην δεντέρου μεταδίδωσι γάμου , ἐπεὶ κ . οὗτος οὐχ ἁμαρτάνει μὲν κατὰ διαθήκην , οὐ γὰρ κεκώλυται πρὸς τοῦ νόμου , οὐ πληροῖ δὲ τῆς κατὰ τὸ εὐαγγέλιον πολιτείας τὴν κατ ʼ ἐκίτασιν τελειότητα . And so in Suicer, i. p. 892 f., Chrys., Greg. Naz. ( τὸ πρώτον (συνοικέσιον) νόμος, τὸ δεύτερον συγχώρησις, τὸ τρίτον παρανομία. τὸ δὲ ὑπὲρ τοῦτο, χοιρώδης . Orat. xxxvii. 8, p. 650), Epiphanius ( δευτερόγαμον οὐκ ἔξεστι δέχεσθαι ἐν αὐτῇ (τῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ) εἰς ἱερωσύνην . Doct. compend. de fide, p. 1104), Orig., the Apostolical Canon xvii. ( ὁ δυσὶ γάμοις συμπλακεὶς μετὰ τὸ βάπτισμα , ἢ παλλακὴν κτησάμενος , οὐ δύναται εἶναι ἐπίσκοπος , ἢ πρεσβύτερος , ἢ διάκονος , ἢ ὅλως τοῦ καταλόγου τοῦ ἱερατικοῦ ), &c. Huther cites from Athenagoras the expression εὐπρεπὴς μοιχεία applied to second marriage. With regard to the Apostle’s own command and permissions of this state (see above), they do not come into account here, because they are confessedly (and expressly so in ch. 1Ti 5:14 ) for those whom it was not contemplated to admit into ecclesiastical office. 3) There have been some divergent lines of interpretation, but they have not found many advocates. Some (e.g. Wegscheider) deny altogether the formal reference to 1) or 2), and understand the expression only of a chaste life of fidelity to the marriage vow: “that neither polygamy, nor concubinage, nor any offensive deuterogamy, should be able to be alleged against such a person.” But surely this is very vague, for the precise words μιᾶς γυναικὸς ἀνήρ . Bretschneider maintains that μιᾶς is here the indefinite article, and that the Apostle means, an ἐπίσκοπος should be the husband of a wife. This hardly needs serious refutation. Winer however has treated it, edn. 6, § 18. 9 note, shewing that by no possibility can the indefinite εἷς stand where it would as here cause ambiguity, only where unity is taken for granted. Worse still is the Romanist evasion, which understands the μία γυνή of the Church.
	The view then which must I think be adopted, especially in presence of ch. 1 Timothy 5:9 (where see note) is, that to candidates for the episcopate (presbytery) St. Paul forbids second marriage. He requires of them pre-eminent chastity, and abstinence from a licence which is allowed to other Christians. How far such a prohibition is to be considered binding on us, now that the Christian life has entered into another and totally different phase, is of course an open question for the present Christian church at any time to deal with. It must be as matter of course understood that regulations, in all  lawful things, depend, even when made by an Apostle, on circumstances: and the superstitious observance of the letter in such cases is often pregnant with mischief to the people and cause of Christ)  sober (probably in the more extended sense of the word (‘vigilantem animo,’ Beng.: διεγηγερμένον , καὶ προσκοπεῖν τὸ πρακτέον δυνάμενον , Thdrt. τουτέστι διορατικόν , μυρίους ἔχοντα πάντοθεν ὀφθαλμούς , ὀξὺ βλέποντα , καὶ μὴ ἀμβλύνοντα τὸ τῆς διανοίας ὄμμα , κ . τ . λ . Chrys.), as in 1 Thessalonians 5:6 ; 1 Thessalonians 5:8 ; a pattern of active sobriety and watchfulness: for all these adjectives, as far as διδακτικόν , are descriptive of  positive qualities: μὴ πάροινον giving the negative and more restricted opposite),  self-restrained (or,  discreet ; see above on ch. 1Ti 2:9 ),  orderly (‘quod σώφρων est intus, id κόσμιος est extra,’ Beng.: thus expanded by Theodoret: καὶ φθέγματι καὶ σχήματι καὶ βλέμματι καὶ βαδίσματι · ὥστε καὶ διὰ τοῦ σώματος φαίνεσθαι τὴν τῆς ψυχῆς σωφροσύνην ),  hospitable (loving, and entertaining strangers: see reff. and Hebrews 13:2 . This duty in the early days of the Christian church was one of great importance. Brethren in their travels could not resort to the houses of the heathen, and would be subject to insult in the public deversoria),  apt in teaching ( τὰ θεῖα πεπαιδευμένον , καὶ παραινεῖν δυνάμενον τὰ προσήκοντα , Thdrt.: so we have τοὺς ἱππικοὺς βουλομένους γενέσθαι , Xen. Sympos. ii. 10: not merely  given to teaching, but able and skilled in it. All  might teach , to whom the Spirit imparted the gift: but  skill in teaching was the especial office of the minister, on whom would fall the ordinary duty of instruction of believers and refutation of gainsayers):