 11.] (The) women in like manner (who are these? Are they (1) women who were to serve as deacons, deaconesses? or (2) wives of the deacons? or (3) wives of the deacons and overseers? or (4) women in general? I conceive we may dismiss (4) at once, for Chrys.’s reason: τί γὰρ ἐβούλετο μεταξὺ τῶν εἰρημένων παρεμβαλεῖν τι περὶ γυναικῶν ; (3) upheld by Calv., Est., Calov., and Mack, may for the same reason, seeing that he returns to διάκονοι again in 1 Timothy 3:12 , be characterized as extremely improbable, (2) has found many supporters among modern Commentators: Luth., Beza, Beng. (who strangely adds, ‘pendet ab  habentes 1Ti 3:9 ’), Rosenm., Heinr., Huther, Conyb., al., and E. V. But it has against it (  a ) the omission of all expressed reference to the deacons, such as might be given by αὐτῶν , or by τάς : (  b ) the expression of ὡσαύτως , by which the διάκονοι themselves were introduced, and which seems to mark a new ecclesiastical class: (  c ) the introduction of the injunction respecting the deacons, ἔστωσαν μιᾶς γυναικὸς ἄνδρες , as a new particular, which would hardly be if their wives had been mentioned before: (  d ) the circumstance, connected with the mention of Phœbe as διάκονος of the church at Cenchrea in Romans 16:1 , that unless these are deaconesses, there would be among these injunctions no mention of an important class of persons employed as officers of the church. We come thus to consider (1), that these γυναῖκες are  deaconesses ,  ministræ , as Pliny calls them in his letter to Trajan (see note on Rom 16:1 ). In this view the ancients are, as far as I know, unanimous. Of the moderns, it is held by Grot., Mosh., Mich., De W., Wiesinger, Ellicott. It is alleged against it (a) that thus the return to the διάκονοι , 1 Timothy 3:12 , would be harsh, or, as Conyb. “on that view, the verse is most unnaturally interpolated in the midst of the discussion concerning the deacons.” But the ready answer to this is found in Chrys.’s view of 1 Timothy 3:12 , that under διάκονοι , and their household duties, he comprehends in fact both sexes under one: ταῦτα καὶ περὶ γυναικῶν διακόνων ἁρμόττει εἰρῆσθαι : (b) that the existence of deaconesses as an order in the ministry is after all not so clear. To this it might be answered, that even were they no where else mentioned, the present passage stands on its own grounds; and if it seemed from the context that such persons were indicated here, we should reason from this to the fact of their existence, not from the absence of other mention to their non-indication here. I decide then for (1): that these women are  deaconesses ) (  must be )  grave, not slanderers (corresponds to μὴ διλόγους in the males, being the vice to which the female sex is more addicted. Cf. Eurip. Phœn. 298 ff., φιλόψογον δὲ χρῆμα θηλειῶν ἔφυ , | σμικράς τ ʼ ἀφορμὰς ἢν λάβωσι τῶν λόγων , | πλείους ἐπεισφέρουσιν · ἡδονὴ δέ τις | γυναιξί , μηδὲν ὑγιὲς ἀλλήλαις λέγειν .
	 διάβολος in this sense (reff.) is peculiar in N. T. to these Epistles),  sober (see on 1 Timothy 3:2 , corresponding to μὴ οἴνῳ  πολλῷ προσέχοντας ),  faithful in all things (corresponds to μὴ αἰσχροκερδεῖς : trusty in the distribution of the alms committed to them, and in all other ministrations).