 6 .] (the negative characteristics are resumed)  not a novice ( νεόφυτον τὸν εὐθὺς πεπιστευκότα καλεῖ · ἐγὼ γάρ , φησίν , ἐφύτευσα . οὐ γάρ , οὕς τινες ὑπέλαβον , τὸν νέον τῆς ἡλικίας ἐκβάλλει , Thdrt. So Chr. ( νεοκατήχητος ), Thl. ( νεοβάπτιστος ). An objection has been raised to this precept by Schleierm., that it could hardly find place in the apostolic church, where all were νεόφυτοι . Matthies answers, that in Crete this might be so, and therefore such a precept would be out of place in the Epistle to Titus, but the Ephesian church had been many years established. But De W. rejoins to this, that the precepts are perfectly general, not of particular application. The real reply is to be found, partly by narrowing the range of νεόφυτος , partly in assigning a later date to these Epistles than is commonly held. The case here contemplated is that of one very recently converted. To ordain such a person to the ministry would, for the reason here assigned, be most unadvisable. But we cannot imagine that such period need be extended at the most to more than three or four years, in cases of men of full age who became Christians; and surely such a condition might be fulfilled in any of the Pauline churches, supposing this Epistle to bear any thing like the date which I have assigned to it in the Prolegg. ch. vii. § ii.),  lest being besotted with pride (from  τῦφος , smoke, steam, and hence metaphorically, the pother which a man’s pride raises about him so that he cannot see himself or others as they are. So τὰ τῆς ψυχῆς , ὄνειρος καὶ τῦφος , Marc. Antonin. ii. 17: τὸν τῦφον ὥσπερ τινὰ καπνὸν φιλοσοφίας εἰς τοὺς σοφιστὰς ἀπεσκέδασε , Plut. Mor. (p. 580 c. Palm. Lex.) Hence  τυφοῦσθαι , which is used only in this metaphorical sense, to be thus blinded or bewildered with pride or self-conceit. So τετυφωμένος ταῖς εὐτυχίαις , Strabo xv. p. 686, ἐπὶ πλούτοις τε καὶ ἀρχαῖς , Lucian, Necyom. 12. See numerous other examples in Palm and Rost’s Lex., from whence the above are taken)  he fall into the judgment of the devil (these last words ore ambiguous. Is τοῦ διαβόλου (1) the genitive objective (as Rom 3:8 ), ‘  the judgment into which the devil fell ,’ or (2) the genitive subjective, ‘  the judgment which is wrought by the devil? ’ (1) is held by Chrys. ( εἰς τὴν καταδίκην τὴν αὐτήν , ἣν ἐκεῖνος ἀπὸ τῆς ἀπονοίας ὑπέμεινε ), Thdrt. ( τῇ τοῦ διαβόλου τιμωρίᾳ περιπεσεῖται ), Thl., Œe., Pel., Calv. (‘in eandem cum diabolo condemnationem ruat.’ See below under (2)), Beza, Est., Grot. (‘id est, pœna qualis diabolo evenit, qui de cœlo dejectus est, 2 Peter 2:4 , nempe ob superbiam, Sir 10:13 ’), Beng., Wolf (‘repræsentato diaboli exemplo’), Heinr., Heydenreich, Mack, De W., Wiesinger, al.: and by Ellicott. (2) by Ambr. (apparently: ‘Satanas præcipitat eum’), Heumann, Matthies (“if a Christian church-overseer allowed himself to be involved in a charge of pride, the adversary (  in concreto living men, his instruments) might by it have reason as well for the accusation of the individual as for inculpation of the congregation, cf. ch. 1 Timothy 5:14 , Ephesians 4:27 ,” cited by Huther), Calv. (as an alternative: “activam significationem non rejicio, fore ut diabolo causam sui accusandi præbeat.” He adds, “sed verior Chrysostomi opinio”), Bezn (altern.), Huther.
	It is hardly worth while recounting under this head, the views of those who take  τοῦ διαβόλου for  a slanderer , inasmuch as  ὁ διάβολος never occurs in this sense in the N. T. (on διάβολος , adjective, in this sense, see below, 1Ti 3:11 ). This is done in both 1 Timothy 3:6-7 , by Luther (  Lästerer ), Rosenm., Michaelis, Wegseh., Flatt: in 1Ti 3:6 and not in 1 Timothy 3:7 , by Erasm., Mosheim, al.
	In deciding between the above, one question must first be answered: are we obliged to preserve the same character of the genitive in 1Ti 3:6-7 ? because, if so, we must manifestly take (2): for ( ὀνειδισμὸν κ .) παλίδα τοῦ διαβόλου (see below) cannot bear any other meaning than ‘  the (reproach and)  snare which the devil lays .’ This question must be answered, not by any mere consideration of uniformity, but by careful enquiry into the import of the substantive κρῖμα . I conceive we cannot understand it here otherwise than as a  condemnatory sentence . The word is a  vox media ; οὐκ εὔκρτον τὸ κρῖμα , Æsch. Suppl. 392: but the dread here expressed of  falling into it necessarily confines it to its adverse sense. This being so, Bengel’s remark is noticeable: “diabolus potest  opprobrium inferre,  judicium non potest: non enim judicat, sed judicatur.” To this Huther answers, that we must not consider the κρῖμα of the devil as necessarily parallel with God’s κρῖμα , any more than with man’s on his neighbour. “To understand,” he continues, “the κρῖμα τοῦ διαβόλου , we must compare Ephesians 2:2 , where the devil is called τὸ πνεῦμα τὸ νῦν ἐνεργοῦν ἐν τοῖς υἱυῖς τῆς ἀπειθείας : so that whatever the world does to the reproach (  zur Schmach ) of Christ’s Church, is the doing of the spirit that works in the world, viz. of the devil.” But surely this reply is quite inadequate to justify the use of the decisive κρῖμα : and Huther himself has, by suggesting ‘  reproach ,’ evaded the real question, and taken refuge in the unquestioned meaning of the next verse. He goes on to say, that only by understanding this of a  deed of the Prince of the antichristian world, can we clearly establish a connexion with the following verse, pointed out as it is by δέ . But this is still more objectionable: δὲ καί disjoins the two particulars, and introduces the latter as a separate and additional matter. From the use of the decisive word κρῖμα , I infer that it cannot be an act of the adversary which is here spoken of, but an act in which ὁ ἄρχων τοῦ κόσμου τούτου  κέκριται . Then as to uniformity with 1 Timothy 3:7 , I should not be disposed to make much account of it. For one who so loved similarity of external phrase, even where different meanings were to be conveyed, as St. Paul, to use the genitives in κρῖμα τοῦ διαβόλου and παγὶς τοῦ διαβόλου in these different meanings, is surely nothing which need cause surprise. τοῦ διαβόλ  ου is common to both: the devil’s condemnation, and the devil’s snare, are both alike alien from the Christian, in whom, as in his divine Master, the adversary should find nothing, and with whom he should have nothing in common. The κρῖμα τοῦ διαβόλου is in fact but the consummation of that state into which the παγὶς τοῦ διαβόλου is the introduction. I therefore unhesitatingly adopt (1)  the condemnation into which Satan fell through the same blinding effect of pride ).