 13 .]  The importance of true and faithful service in the diaconate .  For those who served well the office of deacon (the aor. participle, not the perf., because the standing-point of the sentence is at first the great day, when their διακονία has passed by. In fact this aor. participle decides between the interpretations: see below)  are acquiring (the Apostle having begun by placing himself at the great day of retribution, and consequently used the aor. participle, now shifts, so to speak, the scene, and deals with their present conduct: q. d., ‘Those who shall then be found to have served well, &c.…  are now , &c.’ On περιποιέω and περιποίησις , see notes, Eph 1:14 ; 1Th 5:9 )  for themselves (emphatic besides the service they are rendering to the church)  a good standing-place (viz. at the great day: cf. ch. 1 Timothy 6:19 , ἀποθησαυρίζοντας ἑαυτοῖς θεμέλιον καλὸν εἰς τὸ μέλλον , ἵνα ἐπιλάβωνται τῆς ὄντως ζωῆς : and Daniel 12:3 (Heb. and E. V.), where however the metaphor is different.
	The interpretations of  βαθμόν ,  a step , or place to stand on (in LXX, the  threshold , or step, before a door; see reff.), have been very various. (1) Ambr., Jer., Pel., Thl., Erasm., Bull, Beza, Corn.-a-lap., Est., Grot., Lightf., Beng., Wolf, Mosh., Schöttg., Wordsw., al., understand it of a  degree of ecclesiastical preferment , scil. from the office of deacon to that of presbyter, and take καλόν for a comparative. Against this is (a) the forcing of καλόν ; (b) the improbability that such a rise upwards through the ecclesiastical offices was known in the Apostle’s time: (c) the still greater unlikelihood, even if it were known, that he would propose as a motive to a deacon to fulfil his office well, the ambitious desire to rise out of it. (2) Mack, Matth., Olsh., Huther, al., following Calv. and Luther, understand by it a high place of honour in the esteem of the church (see on παῤῥησία below): “qui probe funeti fuerint hoc ministerio, non parvo honore dignos esse.” Calv. Against this is (a) that there is not a more distinct reference made to the estimation of the church; indeed that the emphatic ἑαυτοῖς (see above) is altogether against such reference: (b) that thus again an unworthy motive would be set before tha deacons: (c) that again (see below) παῤῥησία will not on this interpretation, bear any legitimate rendering. (d) the aor. part. διακονήσαντες , as before. (3) Musc., al., take it  spiritually , as meaning  progress in the faith . Chrys. is claimed for this view, but this is somewhat doubtful. His words are, τουτέστι , προκοπὴν καὶ παῤῥησίαν πολλὴν τὴν ἐν πίστει χρ . Ἰησοῦ · ὡσεὶ ἔλεγεν , οἱ ἐν τοῖς κάτω δείξαντες ἑαυτοὺς διεγηγερμένους , ταχέως καὶ πρὸς ἐκεῖνα ἀνελεύσονται : where, notwithstanding that προκοπήν would seem to mean subjective progress, Thl.’s explanation of ἐκεῖνα , τὰ ἀνώτερα , the higher office, seems best to fit the sentence: and thus προκοπή must be objective,  preferment . But (a) the whole (especially βαθμὸν περιποιοῦνται ) is of too objective a character thus to be interpreted of a merely subjective process besides that (b) thus also the  present περιποιοῦνται would require a present participle διακονοῦντες . (4) Thdrt. (below), Croc., Flatt, Heinrichs (modified: see below), De W., Wiesinger, understand it nearly as above of the station or standing-place which the faithful deacon acquires before God, with reference to his own salvation. The opinions of these Commentators are, however, somewhat various as to the exact time to which the standing on this βαθμός is to be referred. Thdrt. says: εἰ καὶ ἐλάττονα , φησί , τιμὴν ἔχουσι κατὺ τόνδε τὸν βίον , ἀλλ ʼ οὖν εἰδέναι προσήκει , ὡς τὴν ἐγχειρισθεῖσαν πεπληρωκότες διακονιαν , τὸν τιμιώτατον βαθμὸν ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι λήψονται βίῳ , καὶ τῆς πρὸς τὸν δεσπότην χριστὸν ἀπολαύσονται παῤῥησίας . Heinrichs, with whom De W. and Wiesinger are disposed to agree, understands that they procure to themselves a good  expectation of salvation : a βαθμός i.e. in  this life, with reference to the future one. I believe, from the form of the sentence, that the truth will be found by combining the two views. The διακονήσαντες , as above stated, is used with reference to their finished course at that day. The περιποιοῦνται transfers the scene to the present time. The βαθμός is that which they are now securing for themselves, and will be found standing on at that day: belonging therefore in part to both periods, and not necessarily involving the idea of different degrees of blessedness, though that idea (cf. 1Co 3:15 ) is familiar to St. Paul, but merely predicating the soundness of the ground on which these διάκονοι will themselves stand)  and much confidence (this also is variously understood, according as βαθμός is interpreted. Those who think of  ecclesiastical preferment , render παῤῥησία ‘freedom of speech as regards the faith (obj.),’ i.e. in teaching (‘  majore fiducia aliis Evangelium prædicabunt ,’ Grot.), or in resisting error, or, ‘libertas ingenue agendi,’ as Est.: or ‘a wide field for spiritual action,’ as Matthies. To these there might be no objection, but for the adjunct to παῤῥησία , ἐν πίστει τῇ ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ . Thus defined, παῤῥησία must necessarily have a subjective reference, i.e. to the confidence towards God possessed by those who have made good advance in faith in Christ, as in reff. And so Thdrt. (above), Ambr., Croc., Cocc., Flatt, Calv., Beza (these two understand it more generally, of the confidence wrought by a good conscience), Bengel, Wies., De W., Ellic., al.)  in (the)  faith (subjective, from what follows)  which is in (see reff.  ἐν denotes more the repose of faith  in ,  εἰς the reliance of faith  on , Christ)  Christ Jesus ,