 14 16 .] CLOSE OF THE ABOVE DIRECTIONS  by a solemn statement of their object and its glorious import .  These things (the foregoing precepts, most naturally: hardly, as Bengel, ‘totam epistolam’)  I write (expressed in the epistolary aorist, Philemon 1:19 ; Philemon 1:21 ; but in the present, 1 Corinthians 14:37 ; 2Co 1:13 ; 2 Corinthians 13:10 ; Galatians 1:20 . ( 1Jn 1:4 ; 1 John 2:1 , &c.))  to thee, hoping (‘though I hope:’ “part. ἐλπίζων per καίπερ seu similem particulam esse resolvendum, nexus orationis docet.” Leo, cited by Huther)  to come to thee sooner (than may seem ) (on the comparative, which must not be broken down into a positive, as it is by almost all the Commentators, see Joh 13:27 note, and Winer, edn. 6, § 35. 4. Also Acts 17:21 ; Acts 25:10 ; Acts 27:13 ; Hebrews 13:19 ; Hebrews 13:23 , which last is exactly parallel with this. Some supply it, before this Epistle come to thee: or, before thou shalt have need to put these precepts into practice: but the above seems simpler, and suits better the usage elsewhere):  but if I should delay (coming ) (from ἐλπίζων to βραδύνω may be regarded as parenthetical, the ἵνα belonging immediately to γράφω ),  that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to conduct thyself (reff. Huther would take πῶς δεῖ ἀναστρέφεσθαι generally, ‘  how men ought to behave themselves ;’ alleging, that in the preceding, there is no direct prescription how Timotheus is himself to act, and that if we supply σε (as D 1 in digest), we confine the reference of οἶκος θεοῦ to the Ephesian church. The latter objection need not detain us long. If the church in general is the house of God, then any portion of it may clearly partake of the title and the dignity. To the former, we may reply, that in fact, the whole of what has preceded does regard Timotheus’s own behaviour. He was to see to all these things to take care that all these precepts were observed)  in the house of God (see reff. also Hebrews 3:2 ; Hebrews 3:5-6 , and notes: 1 Corinthians 3:16 ; 2 Corinthians 6:16 ; Ephesians 2:22 : that congregation among whom God dwells, by His Spirit);  for such (the house of God: the ἥτις brings out into prominence the appository explanation, and specially applies it to the antecedent)  is the congregation ( ἐκκλησίας οὐ τοὺς οἴκους λέγει τοὺς εὐκτηρίους , κατὰ τὴν τῶν πολλῶν συνήθειαν , ἀλλὰ τῶν πιστῶν τὸν σύλλογον . Theod.-mops.)  of the living God (thus designated for solemnity, and to shew his personal and active presence among them),  the pillar (see below)  and basement (= θεμέλιος , 2 Timothy 2:19 ; ‘firmamentum.’ It is a climax, not as Bengel, “instar unius vocubuli solidissimum quiddam exprimentis:” the στύλος is the intermediate, the ἑδραίωμα the final support of the building: as Wahl, “omne id, cui ut primario et præ ceteris insigni innititur aliquid”)  of the truth (these latter words are variously referred: being (1) by Camero, ErSchmid., Limborch, Le Clerc, Schöttg., Beng., Mosh., Rosenm., Heinr., Wegsch., Heydenr., Flatt, al. (see in Wolf. Not Chillingworth, as stated in Bloomf.: see below), joined with the following sentence, putting a period at ζῶντος , and proceeding στύλος καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῆς ἀληθείας καὶ ὁμολογουμένως μέγα ἐστὶν τὸ μυστ . κ . τ . λ . To this I can only say, that if any one imagines St. Paul, or any other person capable of writing this Epistle, able to have indited such a sentence, I fear there is but little chance in arguing with him on the point in question. To say nothing of its abruptness and harshness, beyond all example even in these Epistles, how palpably does it betray the botching of modern conjectural arrangement in the wretched anti-climax στύλος καὶ ἑδραίωμα (rising in solemnity) τῆς ἀληθείας , καὶ (what grander idea, after the basement of the whole building, does the reader suppose about to follow?) ὁμολογουμένως μέγα ! These two last words, which have (see below) their appropriate majesty and grandeur in their literal use at the emphatic opening of such a sentence as the next, are thus robbed of it all, and sink into the very lowest bathos; the metaphor being dropped, and the lofty imagery ending with a vague generality. If a sentence like this occurred in the Epistle, I should feel it a weightier argument against its genuineness than any which its opponents have yet adduced.
	(2) by Gregory of Nyssa (de vita Mosis: vol. i. p. 385, οὐ μόνον πέτρος καὶ Ἰάκωβος καὶ Ἰωάννης στύλοι τῆς ἐκκλησίας εἰσὶ … ὁ θεῖος ἀπόστολος … καὶ τὸν Τιμόθεον στύλον καλὸν ἐτεκτήνατο , ποιήσας αὐτόν , καθὼς φησὶ τῇ ἰδιίᾳ φωνῇ , στύλον καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῆς ἀληθείας ), Chillingworth (Religion of Protestants, &c., ch. iii. 76: but he allows as possible, the reference to the Church: “if you will needs have St. Paul refer this not to Timothy, but to the Church, I will not contend about it any further, than to say, Possibly it may be otherwise”), by others mentioned in Wolf, and in our own days by Conybeare, it is taken as referring to TIMOTHEUS: “  that thou mayest know how to conduct thyself in the house of God, which is &c.…  as a pillar and basement of the truth .” In the very elaborate discussion of this passage by Suicer (s. v. στύλος ), he cites those fathers who seem more or less to have favoured this idea. Of these we must manifestly not claim for it those who have merely used the word στύλος or  columna of an Apostle or teacher, or individual Christian, as that is justified, independently of our passage, by Galatians 2:9 ; Revelation 3:12 : but Greg. Naz. applies the very words to Eusebius of Samosata (Ep. xliv. 1, vol. iii. (Migne) p. 39), and to Basil (Orat. xviii. 1, vol. i. p. 330): and Basil in the Catena says, εἰσὶ καὶ στύλοι τῆς Ἱερουσαλὴμ οἱ ἀπόστολοι , κατὰ τὸ εἰρημένον , στύλος καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῆς ἀληθείας : and in the Epistle of the churches of Lyons and Vienne, Euseb. 1 Timothy 3:1 , it is said of Attalus, στύλον καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῶν ἐνταῦθα ἀεὶ γεγουνότα . Other cognate expressions, such as τὸ στερέωμα τῆς πίστεως (Chrys., of St. Peter, Hom. xxxii. vol. v. p. 199; and Basil, of Eusebius, as above), πίστεως ἔρεισμα (Greg. Naz., of Basil, Or. xviii. as above), τὸ τῆς ἐκκλησίας στήριγμα (Thl. on Luke 22:0 , of St. Peter), θρησκείας στηρίγματα (of Pastors, Nicephorus Hist. vii. 2), are adduced by Suicer. The principal modern reasons for adopting this view have been (a) polemical as against Roman Catholic infallibility of the Church, or (b) for uniformity of symbolism, seeing that in Galatians 2:9 , Revelation 3:12 ,  men are compared to pillars (see this very copiously illustrated in Suicer). On both of these I shall treat expressly below.
	To the  grammatical construction of the sentence thus understood, there is no objection. The nominative στύλος after δεῖ would be not only allowable, but necessary, if it expressed, not a previous predicate of the understood σε , but the character which by the ἀναστρέφεσθαι he was to become or shew forth: cf. Plato and Demost. in Kühner, § 646, 2 anm., who however has not apprehended the right reason of the idiom.
	But to the sentence itself thus arranged and understood, there are weighty, and I conceive fatal objections: to wit, (c) if στύλος κ . τ . λ . had been meant to apply to Timotheus, it would hardly have been possible that σε should be omitted. He would thus be the prominent object in the whole passage, not as now the least prominent, lurking behind ἀναστρέφεσθαι to make way for greater things. (d) I can hardly think, that, in this case, στύλος would have been anarthrous. Though ‘a pillar’ might be the virtual meaning, σε , τὸν στύλον , or σε ἀναστρέφεσθαι , … ὁ στύλος , would certainly be the Greek expression. (e) In this case also, the καὶ ὁμολογουμένως which follows would most naturally refer, not to the great deposit of faith in Christ which is entrusted to the church to keep, but to the very strong and unusual expression which had just been used of a young minister in the church, ‘and confessedly great is the dignity of the least of the ministers of Christ: for,’ &c. (3) The reference to THE CHURCH is upheld by Chrys. ( οὐχ ὡς ἐκεῖνος ὁ ἰουδαικὸς οἶκος θεοῦ . τοῦτο γάρ ἐστι τὸ συνέχον τὴν πίστιν καὶ τὸ κήρυγμα · ἡ γὰρ ἀλήθειά ἐστι τῆς ἐκκλησίας καὶ στύλος καὶ ἑδραίωμα . This inversion of the sentence may have arisen from taking τῆς ἀληθείας as a genitive of apposition), Thdrt. ( οἶκον θεοῦ καὶ ἐκκλησίαν τῶν πεπιστευκότων τὸν σύλλογον προσηγόρευσε . τούτους ἔφη στύλον καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῆς ἀληθείας . ἐπὶ γὰρ τῆς πέτρας ἐρηρεισμένοι καὶ ἀκλόνητοι διαμένουσι , καὶ διὰ τῶν πραγμάτων κηρύττοντες τὴν τῶν δογμάτων ἀλήθειαν ), Theodor.-mops. (as cited above, on ἐκκλησία , as far as σύλλογον , then he proceeds, ὅθεν καὶ στύλον αὐτὴν καὶ ἑδραίωμα τῆς ἀληθείας ἐκάλεσεν , ὡς ἂν ἐν αὐτῇ τῆς ἀληθείας τὴν σύστασιν ἐχούσης ), Thl., Œc., Ambr., Pel., the Roman Commentators, Luth., Calv. (“nonne Ecclesia mater est piorum omnium, quæ ipsos regenerat Dei verbo, quæ educat alitque tota vita, quæ confirmat, quæ ad solidam perfectionem usque perducit? eadem quoque ratione columna veritatis prædicatur: quia doctrinæ administrandæ munus, quod Deus penes eam deposuit, unicum est instrumentum retinendæ veritatis, ne ex hominum memoria pereat”), Beza, Grot. (“veritatem sustentat atque attollit ecclesia, efficit ne labatur ex animis, efficit ut longe lateque conspiciatur”), Calov., Wolf, &c. De Wette, Huther, Wiesinger, al. And this interpretation agrees with 2 Timothy 2:19 ; see note there. But there is brought against it the objection, that there is thus introduced confusion of metaphor. The ἐκκλησία , which was the οἶκος above, now becomes στύλος , a part of the οἶκος . This is not difficult to answer. The house contains in itself both στύλος and ἑδραίωμα the pillar and the basement both belong to the house. Why may not the στύλος be taken collectively? the very word ἐκκλησία , occurring since, has pluralized the idea the building consists of the κλητοί , who are so many στύλοι why should it not in the aggregate be described as the στύλος ? This seems to me far better than, with some in Suicer, to suppose a monumental pillar, or base of an image, to be meant. The way in which the congregation of the faithful is the pillar and basement of the truth is admirably given by Thdrt. and Calvin above: viz. in that it is the element in which and medium by which the truth is conserved and upheld).