Romans 1:18.  For.  Direct proof of Romans 1:17: the righteousness from God is revealed by faith,  for  other revelations are of God’s wrath. (See note above.)
	 God’s wrath.  (The article is wanting here, as in Romans 1:16-17; but the translation ‘a wrath of God,’ is altogether unnecessary.) This phrase is anthropopathic (  i. e,  borrowed from human feelings), but it expresses a reality, namely, the punitive justice and holiness of God over against sin. Yet, this wrath of God, so frequently spoken of, must not be confounded with its result, the punishment of sin; it is rather ‘an affection of the personal God, having a necessary connection with His love. The wrath of God, the reality of which is indisputable as the very presupposition of the work of atonement, is the love of the holy God (who is neither neutral nor one-sided in His affection) for all that is good in its energy as antagonistic to all that is evil’ (Meyer).
	 Is revealed.  The continuous revelation is indicated. It is not necessary to assume that such a revelation is exclusively supernatural, especially here where historical facts exemplify the  made  of the revelation. Hence the revelation is an outward one, not that accomplished through the gospel.
	 From heaven; to be joined with ‘revealed.’ ‘Heaven,’ as the dwelling-place or throne of God, is designated as the place from which this revelation of wrath proceeds.
	 Against all ungodliness and unrighteousness.  God’s wrath is against every form of irreligiousness and immorality; the two words distinguishing sin with respect to God and the law of right He has established. ‘Ungodliness is more the fountain (but at the same time partially the result) of unrighteousness, which unrighteousness is more the result (but at the same time partially the fountain) of ungodliness’ (Alford). Hence the terms are not to be applied respectively to sins against God and against men.
	 Of men.  The reference is not now to all men, but to those ‘who hinder,’ etc. Since the Apostle does not charge the Jews with this in chap. 2, the Gentiles are meant here.
	 Hinder,  restrain, or hold back, rather than hold (see references); those who hinder the truth from producing its proper results.
	 Unrighteousness  is that wherein they hold the truth back, hindering it thereby.
	