Romans 1:13.  But I would not have you ignorant  (comp). chap. Romans 11:25). The phrase lays stress on what is said. The progress of thought is natural. Paul had expressed his prayerful longing to see them (Romans 1:9-12), he now tells them that this longing had not been inactive; it had frequently led to a definite purpose to visit them.
	 Brethren.  This affectionate address agrees well with the fraternal tone of Romans 1:12.
	 Often I purposed.  In his frequent visits to Greece such a purpose would readily be formed (comp. chap. Romans 15:23).
	 And was hindered hitherto.  This is a parenthetical explanation, introduced by ‘and,’ not ‘but’ The word ‘let’ is an instance of entire reversal of meaning in English usage. It meant ‘hinder’ at the time when the E. V. was made. The hindrances are not specified; but we infer from chap. Romans 15:20-24, that he felt it to be his first duty to preach where the gospel had not been yet proclaimed. At the same time, his necessary journeys to Jerusalem, and the task of organizing the Gentile churches, of correcting their errors (comp. Galatians), of allaying dissensions (comp. Corinthians), filled up his time. It is nowhere hinted that he was forbidden to preach there.
	 That I might have some fruit.  The main thought is here resumed. The figure is quite common. The ‘fruit’ is the harvest to be gathered and presented to God. Hence it is not Paul’s reward, or the result of his labor merely, but the good works produced among the Roman Christians, as fruit unto God (comp. Romans 15:11). The conversion of others is not alluded to.
	 Among you also.  Lit., ‘in you also.’ The literal sense would emphasize the internal character of the fruit-bearing; but ‘among,’ which is a frequent sense of the preposition, is, on the whole, to be preferred.
	 Among the rest of the Gentiles.  In Romans 1:5, the word is rendered ‘nations,’ but here the reference to ‘Gentiles’ is more marked, since there is a marked hint of his special mission as Apostle to the Gentiles, carried out in the next verse.
	