Romans 1:9.  For.  This introduces a   solemn proof of his thanksgiving.
	 God is my witness.  Such appeals to God are not uncommon in Paul’s writings. God only could know what his habit in secret prayer was. The fact was important, since he had labored so widely and yet not visited them. This might seem like ignorance or forgetfulness of them.
	 Whom I serve in  my spirit. This adds strength to the solemn asseveration. The word translated ‘serve’ is used in the Septuagint of priestly service, and probably retains some such force here. He renders true service, not in the temple, but in his ‘spirit.’ ‘Spirit’ is the highest part of man’s nature, and in passages like this the reference is to the human spirit, not in contrast with soul or body, but as the sphere of the working of the Holy Spirit. Meyer says: ‘in my moral self-consciousness, which is the living inner sphere of that service.’ But it is a regenerated moral self-consciousness (so Godet).
	 In the gospel of his  Son.  The gospel concerning his Son (comp. Romans 1:3). This is the sphere of the service from another point of view; his service is not the performance of a ritual, but the proclamation of the gospel, the good tidings about the Son of God. Notice here and throughout, that the gospel is spoken of, not as the gospel of Jesus, but as the gospel of God, the gospel of Christ, the gospel of his Son. Paul served God by telling the good tidings of the Son of God, Jesus Christ our Lord (Romans 1:1-5)
	 How unceasingly.  The E. V. is incorrect here. It is the mode, rather than the simple fact, or the degree, which is brought out.
	 I remember you.  Here the E. V. is inaccurate in its punctuation. This phrase should be separated from what follows. The remembrance is not a mere recollection, but an active recalling of them. ‘Make mention’ is more literal, but it suggests the thought of petition, which is first brought out in what follows.
	 Always in my prayers,  or, ‘at my prayers’  i.e., always when engaged in prayer.
	