24. Then—after that: next in
	the succession of "orders" or "ranks." 
	the end—the general
	resurrection, and final judgment and consummation ( :-). 
	delivered up . . . kingdom to
	. . . Father—(Compare  :-). Seeming at variance with  :-, "His dominion is an everlasting dominion which
	shall not pass away." Really, His giving up of the
	mediatorial kingdom to the Father, when the end for which the
	mediatorial economy was established has been accomplished, is
	altogether in harmony with its continuing everlastingly. The change
	which shall then take place, shall be in the manner of
	administration, not in the kingdom itself; God shall then come
	into direct connection with the earth, instead of
	mediatorially, when Christ shall have fully and finally removed
	everything that severs asunder the holy God and a sinful earth ( :-). The glory of God is the final end of Christ's mediatorial
	office (Philippians 2:10; Philippians 2:11).
	His co-equality with the Father is independent of the latter, and
	prior to it, and shall, therefore, continue when its function shall
	have ceased. His manhood, too, shall everlastingly continue, though,
	as now, subordinate to the Father. The throne of the Lamb (but
	no longer mediatorial) as well as of God, shall be in the heavenly
	city (Revelation 22:3; compare Revelation 22:3- :). The unity of the Godhead, and the unity of the Church,
	shall be simultaneously manifested at Christ's second coming. Compare
	Zephaniah 3:9; Zechariah 14:9;
	John 17:21-24. The oldest
	manuscripts for "shall have delivered up," read,
	"delivereth up," which suits the sense better. It is
	"when He shall have put down all rule," that "He
	delivereth up the kingdom to the Father." 
	shall have put down all
	rule—the effect produced during the millennary reign of Himself
	and His saints (Psalms 110:1;
	Psalms 8:6; Psalms 2:6-9),
	to which passages Paul refers, resting his argument on the two words,
	"all" and "until," of the Psalmist: a proof of
	verbal inspiration of Scripture (compare Revelation 2:26;
	Revelation 2:27). Meanwhile, He "rules
	in the midst of His enemies" (Revelation 2:27- :). He is styled "the King" when He takes His great
	power (Matthew 25:34; Revelation 11:15;
	Revelation 11:17). The Greek for
	"put down" is, "done away with," or
	"brought to naught." "All" must be subject to
	Him, whether openly opposed powers, as Satan and his angels, or kings
	and angelic principalities (Revelation 11:17- :).