 2 53: ] STEPHEN’S DEFENCE. In order to understand this wonderful and somewhat difficult speech, it will be well to bear in mind, (1) that the  general character of it is  apologetic , referring to the charge made against him: but (2) that in this apology, forgetting himself in the vast subject which he is vindicating, he every where mixes in the polemic and didactic element. A general synopsis of it may be thus given: (1) He shews (  apologetically ) that, so far from dishonouring Moses or God, he believes and holds in mind God’s dealings with Abraham and Moses, and grounds upon them his preaching; that, so far from  dishonouring the temple, he bears in mind its history and the sayings of the prophets respecting it; and he is proceeding, when (interrupted by their murmurs or inattention? but see note, Act 7:51 ) he bursts forth into a holy vehemence of invective against their rejection of God, which provokes his tumultuary expulsion from the council, and execution. (2) But simultaneously and parallel with this  apologetic procedure, he also proceeds  didactically , shewing them that a future Prophet was pointed out by Moses as the final Lawgiver of God’s people, that the Most High had revealed His spiritual and heavenly nature by the prophets, and did not dwell in temples made with hands. And (3) even more remarkably still does the  polemic element run through the speech. “  It is not I, but YOU,  who from the first times till now have rejected and spoken against God .” And this element, just appearing Acts 7:9 , and again more plainly Acts 7:25-28 , and again more pointedly still in Acts 7:35 , becomes dominant in Acts 7:39-44 , and finally prevails, to the exclusion of the apologetic and didactic, in Acts 7:51-53 .
	That other connected purposes have been discovered in the speech, as e.g. that so ably followed out by Chrys. Hom. xv. xvii. (similarly Grot. and Calv.), of shewing that the covenant and promises were  before the law , and sacrifice and the law  before the temple , is to be attributed to the wonderful depth of words uttered like these under the immediate inspiration of the Holy Spirit, presenting to us, from whichever side they are viewed, new and inimitable hues of heavenly wisdom. Many of these will be brought out as we advance.
	The question,  from what probable source Luke derived his report of this speech , so peculiar in its character and citations as to bear, even to the most prejudiced, decisive evidence of authenticity, can be only conjecturally answered: but in this case the conjecture can hardly be wrong. I have discussed the point in the Prolegg. to this vol. ch. i. § ii. 12 (a). Another question has been, in  what language the speech was delivered. (1) It is a hardly disputable inference from ch. Acts 6:9 , that Stephen was a Hellenist: (2) his citations and quasicitations for the most part agree with the LXX version. Hence it seems most probable that he spoke  in Greek , which was almost universally understood in Jerusalem. If he spoke in Hebrew, (Syro-Chaldaic), then either those passages where the LXX varies from the Hebrew text (see below) must owe their insertion in that shape to some  Greek narrator or to  Luke himself , or Stephen must have, in speaking,  translated them, thus varying , into Hebrew: either supposition being in the highest degree improbable.