 16. ]  μετετέθησαν , viz. αὐτὸς καὶ οἱ πατέρες ἡμῶν , not the latter only, as Kuin., Olsh., and Wordsw., to evade part of the difficulty of the verse.
	The facts, as related in the O. T., were these: Jacob, dying in Egypt, was ( Gen 50:13 ) taken into the land of Canaan, and buried in the cave of Machpelah, before Mamre (on the rest of the verse see below): Joseph, dying also in Egypt, was taken in a coffin ( Gen 50:26 ) at the Exodus ( Exo 13:19 ), and finally buried ( Jos 24:32 ) at Shechem. Of the burial of the other patriarchs the sacred text says nothing, but rather by the specification in Exodus 13:19 , leaves it to be inferred that they were buried in Egypt. Josephus, Antt. ii. 8. 2, relates that they were taken and buried in  Hebron , and adds, B. J. iv. 9. 7, ὧν καὶ τὰ μνημεῖα μέχρι τοῦ νῦν ἐν τῇδε τῇ πολίχνῃ (  Hebron ) δείκνυται , πάνυ καλῆς μαρμάρου καὶ φιλοτίμως εἰργασμένα : the Rabbinical traditions mentioned by Wetst. and Lightf. report them to have been buried in  Sychem : and Jerome (Ep. ad Eustochium: Epitaph. Paulæ, 108 (27) 13, vol. i., p. 703) relating the pilgrimages of Paula to the sacred places, says: “transivit Sichem, … atque inde divertens vidit duodecim Patriarcharum sepulchra.” These traditions probably Stephen followed; and, in haste or inadvertence, classed  Jacob with the rest.
	 ᾧ ὠνήσατο Ἀβραάμ ] The burying-place which Abraham bought was not at  Sychem , but ( Gen 23:3-20 ) at  Hebron , and was bought of  Ephron the Hittite . It was  Jacob who ( Gen 33:19 ) bought a field where he had pitched his tent, near  Sychem , of the  children of Hamor , Shechem’s father: and no mention is made of its being  for a burying-place . The two incidents are certainly here  confused : and no ingenuity of the Commentators has ever devised an escape from the inference. The mention of a few such attempts may suffice. (1) The omission of Ἀβραάμ (Beza, Valck., Kuin., Schött., al.) against all manuscript evidence (not excepting E, the reading of which, variously stated by Meyer and Tischendorf, has been ascertained by inspection), and against the construction also; for after μετετέθησαν , Ἰακώβ could hardly be the subject to ὠνήσατο : (2) rendering, against all grammar, while omitting Ἀβραάμ , ὠνήσατο ‘emptum erat’ (Kuin.): (3) construing Ἀβραάμ ,  Abrahamides , i.e.  Jacob (Surenhus. al.): (4) that of Wordsworth, made up of omitting Jacob from the grammatical construction (see above);  proving, from Jerome and  Bede [45] (without any allusion to the passage of Josephus above cited!), that the other patriarchs were buried at Shechem: a priori reasons why Stephen should have chosen to bring forward Shechem and not Hebron; reasons (see Wordsw.’s note) not very creditable, if they existed: &c. &c.
	 [45]   Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	The fact of the mistake occurring where it does, will be far more instructive to the Christian student than the most ingenious solution of the difficulty could be, if it teaches him fearlessly and honestly to recognize the phænomena presented by the text of Scripture, instead of wresting them to suit a preconceived theory. I entirely agree with Wordsworth, that “there is nothing in these difficulties which invalidates the claims of St. Stephen to Inspiration,” any more than those expressions in Scripture “invalidate its inspiration,” which imply that the sun revolves round the earth. But as Wordsw. lives in days when men are no longer burnt for asserting that the earth moves, he surely might abstain from railing in such unmeasured terms (see his Acts, p. 35, Colossians 1:0 ) at those who in contending for common fairness and honesty find it necessary to carry somewhat further the same canon of reasonable interpretation. Humble searchers after divine truth will not be terrified by being charged with “assumption and conceit,” or being told that their exegesis can produce no result but “degeneracy, degradation, disbelief, and demoralization.” But they will deeply feel it to be their duty, to caution the student against all crooked and disingenuous ways of handling the word of God. “Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis.”