 14.   ἐν ψυχαῖς ἑβδομηκονταπέντε ] In the Hebrew text, Genesis 46:27 ; Exodus 1:5 ; Deuteronomy 10:22 ,  seventy souls are reckoned, viz. sixty-six born of Jacob, Jacob himself, Joseph, and his two sons born in Egypt. So also Josephus, Antt. ii. 7. 4; vi. 5, 6. But the LXX, whom Stephen follows, insert in Gen 46:20 an account of the children and grandchildren of Manasseh and Ephraim, five in number: and in Act 7:27 read υἱοὶ δὲ Ἰωσὴφ οἱ γενόμενοι αὐτῷ ἐν γῇ Αἰγ ., ψυχαὶ ἐννέα . πᾶσαι ψυχαὶ οἴκου Ἰακὼβ αἱ εἰσελθοῦσαι μετὰ Ἰακὼβ (om μετὰ Ἰακώβ , and ψυχαί below, A, but obviously without any effect on the general statement) εἰς Αἴγυπτον ,  ψυχαὶ ἑβδομηκονταπέντε : reckoning, as it appears, curiously enough, among the sons of Joseph, Joseph himself, and his wife Asenath; for these are required to make up the nine, according to their Acts 7:20 . And similarly in Exodus 1:5 , and in Deu 10:22 A. (Wordsw., who is careful to note that A omits μετὰ Ἰακώβ in Genesis 46:27 , omits the fact that it reads πέντε here, by stating “seventy” as the LXX testimony.) With regard to the various attempts to solve the difficulty (66 + 12 wives, minus (Joseph and his wife, and Judah’s wife who died in Canaan) = 75, Seb. Schmid and Wolf: that Stephen spoke of those who were  invited , Moses of those who  went , Krebs and Loesner: that πάντες should be read for πέντε , Beza: &c.), see above on Acts 7:6-7 . The remarks of Jerome are curious: he is arguing, on Gen. l. c., that the number  really was seventy , and adds, ‘Quod si e contrario nobis id opponitur, quomodo in Actibus Apostolorum in concione Stephani dicatur ad populum, septuaginta quinque animas ingressas esse Ægyptum, facilis excusatio est. Non enim debuit sanctus Lucas, qui ipsius (istius?) historiæ scriptor est, in gentes Actuum Apostolorum volumen emittens, contrarium aliquid scribere adversus eam scripturam, quæ jam fuerut gentibus divulgata.’ Philo, de Migr. Abr. § 36, vol. i. pp. 467 f., mentions both numbers (reading 75 in Gen. and 70 in Deut., see above), and gives allegorical reasons for both: and really Wordsworth’s solution, that Stephen includes those born of Jacob’s line in Egypt to shew that they “were equally children of the promise with those born in Canaan,” is hardly better. When we come to understand  μετεκαλέσατο … πᾶσαν τὴν συγγένειαν ἐν ψυχαῖς ἑβδομηκονταπέντε , as represented by  including, for a purpose, those already in Egypt , it seems to me that a stigma is cast on St. Stephen far more serious than that of mere numeral inaccuracy.