 43. ] The answer, by God Himself:  Yea ,  ἀνελάβετε ,  ye [  took up , i.e.]  carried about with you , (not  My tabernacle as your sole or chief holy place, but)  the tabernacle ( סִכּוּת , the portable tent for the image: Diod. Sic. xx. 65, mentions the ἱερὰ σκηνή ] in the Carthaginian camp) of  M [48] , &c.
	 [48]  . Marcion, 130; fragments in Epiph. (Mcion-e) and Tert. (Mcion-t)
	Stephen was  not the sole dishonourer,  if a dishonourer , of the holy place their fathers had done it before.
	 Μολόχ ] So the LXX: the Heb. has מַלְכְּכֶם , ‘  of your king ;’ the LXX probably followed another reading ( מלכם is actually found in 577 Kennicot and 440 1 De Rossi), or perhaps explained the expression by the cognate name of this god. Moloch (Winer, Realw.) was the Phœnician Saturn: his image was of brass with the head of an ox, and outstretched arms of a man, hollow; and human sacrifices (of children) were offered, by laying them in these arms and heating the image by a fire kindled within. The rigid prohibitions of the worship of Moloch (Leviticus 18:21 ; Lev 20:2-5 ) were openly transgressed by Ahaz, 2 Kings 16:3 ; by Manasseh, ib. 2 Kings 21:6 ; see also Acts 23:10 ; Jeremiah 7:31 ; Jeremiah 32:35 . In the kingdom of Israel this abomination had been long practised, see 2 Kings 17:17 ; Ezekiel 23:37 . We find traces of it at Carthage (Diod. Sic. xx. 14), among the Phœnicians (Q. Curt. iv. 3. 23. Euseb. laud. Const [49] xiii. 4. Porpbyr. de Abstin. ii. 56), among the Cretans and Rhodians (Porphyr. ibid.), and the Assyrian colonists at Sepharvaim, 2 Kings 17:31 .
	 [49] Constitutions, Apostolic, Cent y . III.
	 τὸ ἄστρον τοῦ θ  .   Ῥεφάν ] Heb. כִּיּוּן , Chiún; but what the meaning of either this or Ῥαιφάν (LXX) is, we have nothing but conjecture to inform us. The principal opinions have been (1) that of Kircher, who maintains Ῥεφάν ( Ῥηφάν ) to be a Coptic word, signifying  the planet Saturn , and answering to the Arabic ‘Kewan:’ (2) that of Hengstenberg, Authentie des Pentat. 110 ff., who entirely repudiates Kircher’s interpretation, and supposes Ῥηφάν to have arisen from a misreading of ריון for כיון . But Winer (Realw.) prefers the former opinion, and supports it by the authority of eminent modern Coptic and Arabic scholars.
	De Wette and Hengstenberg believe כִּיּוּן to be an appellative noun, and would render it,  Gestell , the  carriage or  frame , on which the star or image was carried: ‘  imaginem idolorum vestrorum ,’ Vulg. Amos. l. c. Wordsw. after Cyr [50] alex. in Catena, supposes ῥεφάν to signify σκότισμα , or blindness, and suggests that the name may have been one given by the Jews in contempt, like Beelzebub, to the god of the Ekronites. See Smith, Bibl. Dict., art. Remphan.
	 [50] Cyril, Bp. of Alexandria, 412 444
	 Βαβυλῶνος ] Δαμασκοῦ , LXX and Heb. The fulfilment of the prophecy would make it very natural to substitute that name which had become inseparably associated with the captivity.