 53. ] The use of  οἵτινες , instead of οἱ , so very frequent in the Acts and Epistles, occurs when the clause introduced by it contains a  further explanation of the position or classification of the person or persons alluded to, and not when the relative serves for simple identification. See Romans 1:25 ; Romans 1:32 .
	 εἰς διαταγὰς ἀγγέλων ] Many explanations have been given. Chrys. διαταχθέντα νόμον λέγει , τὸν ἐγχειρισθέντα αὐτῷ δι ʼ ἄγγελον τὸν ὀφθέντα αὐτῷ ἐν τῷ βάτῳ : and Œc [51] νόμον λαβόντας διατάξεις ἔχοντα , αἵτινες ἰσάγγελον ἐποίουν πολιτείαν ἔχειν τοὺς τελοῦντας αὐτόν . Heinsius and Lightfoot understand by ἀγγέλ .  the prophets : Grot., Calov., and Krebs, ‘  præsentibus angelorum ordinibus ,’ taking διαταγάς = διατάξεις in the sense of divisions of an army ( Jdt 8:36 ), in which it never occurs, not to say that εἰς will not bear this: Beza, Calv., Pisc., Elsn., Hamm., Kuin., &c., ‘  ab angelis promulgatum ,’ which εἰς will not bear ( ἐν ): Winer, Gr., edn. 6, § 32. 4, b, ‘  as commands of angels ’ (but see below), which, however, was not the fact (Mey., who refers to Jos. Antt. xv. 5. 3, ἡμῶν τὰ κάλλιστα τῶν δογμάτων καὶ τὰ ὁσιώτατα τῶν ἐν τοῖς νόμοις  δι  ʼ ἀγγέλων  παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ μαθόντων ): the Syriac version, ‘  per mandatum angelorum :’ Vulg. and Calv., ‘  in dispositione (or -  onibus )  angelorum :’ Schöttg., ‘  per ministerium angelorum .’ These three last are precluded by the foregoing remarks. The key to the right rendering seems to be the similar expression in ref. Gal., ὁ νόμος  διαταγεὶς δι  ʼ   ἀγγέλων . The law was  given by God, but  announced by angels. The people received God’s law then,  εἰς διαταγὰς ἀγγέλων ,  at the injunction (a sense of διατ . amply justified, see Palm and Rost’s lex. διάταξις , and Polyb. iv. 19. 10; 87. 5: and preferred by Winer in his last edn., ut supra)  of angels . So Matthew 12:41 , μετενόησαν  εἰς τὸ κήρυγμα Ἰῶνα , ‘they repented  at the preaching of Jonas.’ The only other legitimate rendering, ‘as the injunctions of angels,’ comes under the objections made to Winer’s former view, above.
	 [51] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?