 58.   ἔξω τ  .   πόλ .] See Leviticus 24:14 . ‘Locus lapidationis erat extra urbem: omnes enim civitates muris cinctæ paritatem habent ad castra Israelis.’ Babyl. Sanhedr. ad loc. (Meyer.) Cf. also Hebrews 13:12-13 .
	 ἐλιθοβόλουν ]  they stoned him : an anticipation of the fact, the details of which follow: not, ‘  they prepared to stone him :’ non ‘jam in itinere ad supplicii locum petulanter eum lapidibus lacessebant’ (Heinr.): nor need we conjecture ἐλιθολόγουν with Markland. Stoning was the punishment of blaspheming, Leviticus 24:16 . The question whether this was a legal proceeding on sentence, or a tumultuary one, is not easy to answer. It would appear from John 18:31 , that the Jews had not legally the power of putting any man to death (see note there). Certainly, from the narrative before us, and from the fact of a bloody persecution having taken place soon after it, it seems that the Jews did, by connivance of, or in the absence of the Procurator, administer summary punishments of this kind. But here no sentence is recorded: and perhaps the very violence and zelotic character of the execution might constitute it, not an encroachment on the power of the Procurator, as it would have been if strictly in form of law, but a mere outbreak, and as such it might be allowed to pass unnoticed. That they observed the forms of  their own law , in the place and manner of the stoning, is no objection to this view.
	 οἱ μάρτυρες ] See ref. [where it is enacted that the hands of the witnesses were to be first on the criminal to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people]. They disencumbered themselves of their loose outer garments, ὥστε εἶναι κοῦφοι καὶ ἀπαραπόδιστοι εἰς τὸ λιθοβολεῖν . Theophyl.
	 ἀπέθεντο ] to keep them.
	Such notices are deeply interesting, when we recollect by  whom they were in all probability carefully inserted. See ch. Acts 22:19-20 , and note on ch. Acts 26:10 : from which it appears that Saul can certainly not have been less than  thirty at this time. He was a member of the Sanhedrim, and soon after was despatched on an important mission with their authority.