 2.   ἄνδρ  .   ἀδ  .   κ  .   πατ  . ] So Paul, ch. Acts 22:1 , before  a mixed assembly of Jews. The  ἄνδρ  .   ἀδ  . would embrace all: the  πατ  . would be a title of respect to the members of the Sanhedrim, in  this case , but hardly in ch. Acts 22:1 .
	 ὁ θεὸς τ  .   δόξης ] Not = θεὸς ἔνδοξος ,  but the God of (i.e. who possesses and manifests Himself by)  Glory , viz. the Shechinah, see Exodus 24:16-17 , and Acts 7:55 .
	The words  τῷ πατρὶ ἡμῶν decide nothing as to Stephen’s genuine Hebrew extraction. Any Jew would thus speak.
	 ὤφθη  …   πρὶν ἢ κατ  .   αὐτ  .   ἐν Χαῤ .] This was the Jewish tradition, though not asserted in Genesis. Thus Philo (de Abrah. § 15 end, vol. ii. p. 12), having paraphrased the divine command, says, διὰ τοῦτο τὴν πρώτην ἀποικίαν ἀπὸ τῆς Χαλδαίων γῆς εἰς τὴν Χαῤῥαίων λέγεται ποιεῖσθαι . But he accurately distinguishes between the λόγιον which he obeyed in leaving Chaldæa, and the θεὸς ὤφθη afterwards, adding a reason after his manner, why God could not be seen nor apprehended by him while he was yet χαλδαΐζων and an astrologer. The fact of his having left Ur by  some divine intimation is plainly stated in Genesis 15:7 , and referred to in Nehemiah 9:7 . It was surely both natural and allowable to express this first command in the well-known words of the second. But we can hardly suppose that Stephen adopted the pluperfect rendering of וַיֹּאמֶר in Genesis 12:1 , as the LXX has εἶπεν . (Josephus, ordinarily cited as relating the same tradition, throws, as he often does, the whole history into confusion, saying, it is true, Antt. i. 7. 1, καταλείπει τ . Χαλδαίαν … τοῦ θεοῦ κελεύσαντος εἰς τὴν Χαναναίαν μετελθεῖν , but omitting entirely the sojourn in Haran, and connecting the migration with an outbreak of the Chaldæans against him for teaching the worship of the true God.)
	 Χαῤῥάν ] So the LXX for חָרָן , Genesis 11:31 , &c. 4 Kings Acts 19:12 ; Ezekiel 27:23 , Κάῤῥαι τῆς Μεσοποταμίας , Herodian iv. 13 (Ptol. v. 18. 12. Strabo, xvi. p. 747), ‘Carras cæde Crassi nobiles,’ Plin. Acts 7:24 , ‘Miserando funere Crassus Assyrias Latio maculavit sanguine Carras,’ Lucan i. 104. It lay on an ancient road, in a large plain surrounded by mountains; it was still a great city in the days of the Arabian caliphs. See Winer, Realw.