 4.   μετὰ τὸ ἀποθανεῖν τὸν πατ  .   αὐτ  . ] In Genesis 11:26 , we read that Terah lived 70 years and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran; in Genesis 11:32 , that Terah lived 205 years, and died in Haran; and in Genesis 12:4 , that Abram was 75 years old when he left Haran. Since then cir. 70 + 75 = cir. 145, Terah must have lived cir. 60 years in Haran after Abram’s departure.
	It seems evident, that the Jewish chronology, which Stephen follows, was at fault here, owing to the circumstance of Terah’s death  being mentioned Genesis 11:32 ,  before the command of Abram to leave Haran; it not having been observed that the mention is  anticipatory . And this is confirmed by Philo having fallen into the same mistake, de Migr. Abrah. § 32, vol. i. p. 464, πρότερον μὲν ἐκ τῆς Χαλδαϊκῆς ἀναστὰς γῆς Ἀβραὰμ ᾤκησεν εἰς Χαῤῥάν ·  τελευτήσαντος δὲ αὐτοῦ τοῦ πατρὸς ἐκεῖθε καὶ ἐκ ταύτης μετανίσταται . It is observable that the Samaritan Pentateuch in Genesis 11:32 , for 205, reads 145, which has most probably been an alteration to remove the apparent inconsistency. The subterfuge of understanding the  spiritual death of Terah, who is, as a further hypothesis, supposed to have  relapsed into idolatry at Haran, appears to have originated with the Rabbis (see Kuinoel ad loc. and Lightf. Hor. Heb.) on discovering that their tradition was at variance with the sacred chronology. They have not been without followers in modern Christendom. It is truly lamentable to see the great Bengel, warped by the unworthy effort of squaring at all hazards, the letter of God’s word in such matters, write thus: ‘Abram, dum Thara vixit in Haran, domum quodammodo paternam habuit in Haran, in terra Canaan duntaxat peregrinum agens; mortuo autem patre, plane in terra Canaan domum unice habere cœpit.’ (This alteration of relation  in the land being expressed by μετῴκισεν αὐτὸν εἰς !) The way in which the difficulty has been met by Wordsworth and others, viz. that we have no right to assume that Abram was born when Terah was 70, but may regard him as the  youngest son , would leave us in this equally unsatisfactory position: Terah,  in the course of nature , begets his son Abram at 130 (205 75): yet this very son Abram regards it as incredible that he himself should beget a son at 99 (Genesis 17:1 ; Gen 17:17 ); and on the fact of the birth of Isaac being  out of the course of nature , most important Scriptural arguments and consequences are founded, cf. Romans 4:17-21 , Hebrews 11:11-12 . We may fairly leave these Commentators with their new difficulty: only remarking for our instruction, how sure those are to plunge into hopeless confusion, who, from motives however good, once begin to handle the word of God deceitfully.  μετ  .   αὐτ  .   εἰς ] In these words Stephen clearly recognizes the  second command , to migrate from Haran to Canaan: and as clearly therefore made no  mistake in Acts 7:2 , but applied the expressed words of the second command to the first injunction, the λόγιον of Philo.