7. In Job 1:6-11;
	Job 2:1-6, Satan appears
	among the sons of God, presenting himself before God in heaven, as
	the accuser of the saints: again in Zechariah 3:1;
	Zechariah 3:2. But at Christ's coming
	as our Redeemer, he fell from heaven, especially when Christ
	suffered, rose again, and ascended to heaven. When Christ appeared
	before God as our Advocate, Satan, the accusing adversary, could no
	longer appear before God against us, but was cast out judicially
	(Romans 8:33; Romans 8:34).
	He and his angels henceforth range through the air and the earth,
	after a time (namely, the interval between the ascension and the
	second advent) about to be cast hence also, and bound in hell. That
	"heaven" here does not mean merely the air, but the abode
	of angels, appears from Revelation 12:9;
	Revelation 12:10; Revelation 12:12;
	1 Kings 22:19-22. 
	there was—Greek,
	"there came to pass," or "arose." 
	war in heaven—What a
	seeming contradiction in terms, yet true! Contrast the blessed result
	of Christ's triumph, Luke 19:38,
	"peace in heaven." Luke 19:38- :, "made peace through the blood of His cross, by Him to
	reconcile all things unto Himself; whether . . . things in
	earth, or things in heaven." 
	Michael and his angels . . .
	the dragon . . . and his angels—It was fittingly ordered that,
	as the rebellion arose from unfaithful angels and their leader, so
	they should be encountered and overcome by faithful angels and their
	archangel, in heaven. On earth they are fittingly encountered, and
	shall be overcome, as represented by the beast and false prophet, by
	the Son of man and His armies of human saints (Luke 19:38- :). The conflict on earth, as in Luke 19:38- :, has its correspondent conflict of angels in heaven.
	Michael is peculiarly the prince, or presiding angel, of the Jewish
	nation. The conflict in heaven, though judicially decided already
	against Satan from the time of Christ's resurrection and ascension,
	receives its actual completion in the execution of judgment by the
	angels who cast out Satan from heaven. From Christ's ascension he has
	no standing-ground judicially against the believing elect. Luke 19:38- :, "I beheld (in the earnest of the future full
	fulfilment given in the subjection of the demons to the disciples)
	Satan as lightning fall from heaven." As Michael fought before
	with Satan about the body of the mediator of the old covenant (Luke 19:38- :), so now the mediator of the new covenant, by offering His
	sinless body in sacrifice, arms Michael with power to renew and
	finish the conflict by a complete victory. That Satan is not yet
	actually and finally cast out of heaven, though the
	judicial sentence to that effect received its ratification at
	Christ's ascension, appears from Luke 19:38- :, "spiritual wickedness in high (Greek,
	'heavenly') places." This is the primary
	Church-historical sense here. But, through Israel's unbelief, Satan
	has had ground against that, the elect nation, appearing before God
	as its accuser. At the eve of its restoration, in the ulterior sense,
	his standing-ground in heaven against Israel, too, shall be taken
	from him, "the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem" rebuking
	him, and casting him out from heaven actually and for ever by
	Michael, the prince, or presiding angel of the Jews. Thus Luke 19:38- : is strictly parallel, Joshua, the high priest, being
	representative of his nation Israel, and Satan standing at God's
	fight hand as adversary to resist Israel's justification. Then, and
	not till then, fully (Revelation 12:10,
	"NOW," &c.)
	shall ALL things be
	reconciled unto Christ IN
	HEAVEN (Colossians 1:20), and
	there shall be peace in heaven (Colossians 1:20- :). 
	against—A, B, and C
	read, "with."