6. woman fled—Mary's flight
	with Jesus into Egypt is a type of this. 
	where she hath—So C
	reads. But A and B add "there." 
	a place—that portion of
	the heathen world which has received Christianity professedly,
	namely, mainly the fourth kingdom, having its seat in the modern
	Babylon, Rome, implying that all the heathen world would not
	be Christianized in the present order of things. 
	prepared of God—literally,
	"from God." Not by human caprice or fear, but by the
	determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, the woman, the
	Church, fled into the wilderness.
they should feed her—Greek,
	"nourish her." Indefinite for, "she should be fed."
	The heathen world, the wilderness, could not nourish the
	Church, but only afford her an outward shelter. Here, as in  :-, and elsewhere, the third person plural refers to the
	heavenly powers who minister from God nourishment to the
	Church. As Israel had its time of first bridal love, on its first
	going out of Egypt into the wilderness, so the Christian Church's
	wilderness-time of first love was the apostolic age,
	when it was separate from the Egypt of this world, having no
	city here, but seeking one to come; having only a place in the
	wilderness prepared of God (Revelation 12:6;
	Revelation 12:14). The harlot takes the
	world city as her own, even as Cain was the first builder of a city,
	whereas the believing patriarchs lived in tents. Then apostate
	Israel was the harlot and the young Christian Church the woman; but
	soon spiritual fornication crept in, and the Church in the
	seventeenth chapter is no longer the woman, but the harlot,
	the great Babylon, which, however, has in it hidden the true
	people of God (Revelation 18:4). The
	deeper the Church penetrated into heathendom, the more she herself
	became heathenish. Instead of overcoming, she was overcome by the
	world [AUBERLEN]. Thus,
	the woman is "the one inseparable Church of the Old and
	New Testament" [HENGSTENBERG],
	the stock of the Christian Church being Israel (Christ and His
	apostles being Jews), on which the Gentile believers have been
	grafted, and into which Israel, on her conversion, shall be
	grafted, as into her own olive tree. During the whole
	Church-historic period, or "times of the Gentiles," wherein
	"Jerusalem is trodden down of the Gentiles," there is no
	believing Jewish Church, and therefore, only the Christian Church can
	be "the woman." At the same time there is meant,
	secondarily, the preservation of the Jews during this Church-historic
	period, in order that Israel, who was once "the woman," and
	of whom the man-child was born, may become so again at the
	close of the Gentile times, and stand at the head of the two
	elections, literal Israel, and spiritual Israel, the Church elected
	from Jews and Gentiles without distinction. Ezekiel 20:35;
	Ezekiel 20:36, "I will bring you
	into the wilderness of the people (Hebrew, 'peoples'),
	and there will I plead with you . . . like as I pleaded with your
	fathers in the wilderness of Egypt" (compare Notes, see
	on Ezekiel 20:36- :): not a wilderness
	literally and locally, but spiritually a state of discipline and
	trial among the Gentile "peoples," during the
	long Gentile times, and one finally consummated in the last time of
	unparalleled trouble under Antichrist, in which the sealed remnant
	(Revelation 7:1-8) who constitute
	"the woman," are nevertheless preserved "from the face
	of the serpent" (Revelation 12:14).
	thousand two hundred and
	threescore days—anticipatory of Revelation 12:14- :, where the persecution which caused her to flee is
	mentioned in its place: Revelation 12:14- : gives the details of the persecution. It is most
	unlikely that the transition should be made from the birth of Christ
	to the last Antichrist, without notice of the long intervening
	Church-historical period. Probably the 1260 days, or periods,
	representing this long interval, are RECAPITULATED
	on a shorter scale analogically during the last Antichrist's short
	reign. They are equivalent to three and a half years, which, as half
	of the divine number seven, symbolize the seeming victory of
	the world over the Church. As they include the whole Gentile times
	of Jerusalem's being trodden of the Gentiles, they must be much
	longer than 1260 years; for, above several centuries more than 1260
	years have elapsed since Jerusalem fell.