14. were given—by God's
	determinate appointment, not by human chances ( :-). 
	two—Greek, "the
	two wings of the great eagle." Alluding to  :-: proving that the Old Testament Church, as well as the New
	Testament Church, is included in "the woman." All believers
	are included (Isaiah 40:30; Isaiah 40:31).
	The great eagle is the world power; in Ezekiel 17:3;
	Ezekiel 17:7, Babylon and
	Egypt: in early Church history, Rome, whose standard
	was the eagle, turned by God's providence from being hostile
	into a protector of the Christian Church. As "wings"
	express remote parts of the earth, the two wings may here mean
	the east and west divisions of the Roman empire. 
	wilderness—the land of
	the heathen, the Gentiles: in contrast to Canaan, the pleasant
	and glorious land. God dwells in the glorious land; demons
	(the rulers of the heathen world, Revelation 9:20;
	1 Corinthians 10:20), in the wilderness.
	Hence Babylon is called the desert of the sea, 1 Corinthians 10:20- : (referred to also in Revelation 14:8;
	Revelation 18:2). Heathendom, in its
	essential nature, being without God, is a desolate wilderness.
	Thus, the woman's flight into the wilderness is the passing of the
	kingdom of God from the Jews to be among the Gentiles (typified by
	Mary's flight with her child from Judea into Egypt). The eagle flight
	is from Egypt into the wilderness. The Egypt meant is
	virtually stated (Revelation 11:8) to
	be Jerusalem, which has become spiritually so by crucifying our
	Lord. Out of her the New Testament Church flees, as the Old
	Testament Church out of the literal Egypt; and as the true Church
	subsequently is called to flee out of Babylon (the woman become an
	harlot, that is, the Church become apostate) [AUBERLEN].
	her place—the chief
	seat of the then world empire, Rome. The Acts of the Apostles
	describe the passing of the Church from Jerusalem to Rome. The Roman
	protection was the eagle wing which often shielded Paul, the great
	instrument of this transmigration, and Christianity, from Jewish
	opponents who stirred up the heathen mobs. By degrees the Church had
	"her place" more and more secure, until, under Constantine,
	the empire became Christian. Still, all this Church-historical period
	is regarded as a wilderness time, wherein the Church is in part
	protected, in part oppressed, by the world power, until just before
	the end the enmity of the world power under Satan shall break out
	against the Church worse than ever. As Israel was in the wilderness
	forty years, and had forty-two stages in her journey, so the Church
	for forty-two months, three and a half years or times
	[literally, seasons, used for years in Hellenistic
	Greek (MOERIS, the
	Atticist), Greek, "kairous," Daniel 7:25;
	Daniel 12:7], or 1260 days (Daniel 12:7- :) between the overthrow of Jerusalem and the coming again of
	Christ, shall be a wilderness sojourner before she reaches her
	millennial rest (answering to Canaan of old). It is possible that,
	besides this Church-historical fulfilment, there may be also an
	ulterior and narrower fulfilment in the restoration of Israel to
	Palestine, Antichrist for seven times (short periods analogical to
	the longer ones) having power there, for the former three and a half
	times keeping covenant with the Jews, then breaking it in the midst
	of the week, and the mass of the nation fleeing by a second Exodus
	into the wilderness, while a remnant remains in the land
	exposed to a fearful persecution (the "144,000 sealed of
	Israel," Revelation 7:1-8;
	Revelation 14:1, standing with the
	Lamb, after the conflict is over, on Mount Zion: "the
	first-fruits" of a large company to be gathered to Him) [DE
	BURGH]. These details
	are very conjectural. In Daniel 7:25;
	Daniel 12:7, the subject, as perhaps
	here, is the time of Israel's calamity. That seven times do not
	necessarily mean seven years, in which each day is a year, that is,
	2520 years, appears from Nebuchadnezzar's seven times (Daniel 12:7- :), answering to Antichrist, the beast's duration.