Romans 3:21.
	 But now.  Either, ‘at this time,’  i.e., in the gospel dispensation, or, ‘in this state of things,’  i.e.,  as further defined. The latter is preferable.
	 Apart from the law.  Though the article is wanting, there can be no question that the Mosaic law is meant. This phrase should come first, as in the Greek, both for emphasis, and to prevent the ungrammatical connection with ‘righteousness of God,’ which some advocate. It qualifies the verb ‘manifested,’ and means not, ‘without the law,’ as if that had no existence and no office to perform, but independently of the law; the manifestation has been without its aid.
	 The righteousness of God,  or, ‘God’s righteousness.’ As in chap. Romans 1:17, the article is wanting. The meaning here is precisely as there, a righteousness which proceeds from God; it is given to the believer for Christ’s sake in the act of justification. It is here characterized by a series of antitheses; independent of the law, yet authenticated by the law   and the prophets (Romans 3:21); freely bestowed on the believer, yet fully paid for by the redemption price of Christ (Romans 3:24); intrinsically holy, yet justifying the sinner (Romans 3:26); thus God is displayed as Himself the righteous Ruler of the universe and the merciful Father who provides free salvation.
	 Hath been made manifest.  This revelation of righteousness is set forth as an accomplished and still continued fact. It was not thus known before, and it is now known independently of the law.
	 Being witnessed.  Continuously witnessed in the whole Old Testament Scriptures. This is not a contradiction to ‘apart from the law.’ The revelation having been made in the gospel, it turns out that the Old Testament attests what its legal requirements did not and could not make known, while the law could not justify (Romans 3:20), there is no contradiction between the parts of God’s revelation. The unity of God, on which Paul bases his argument in Romans 3:29, might be used to enforce the principle here set forth; indeed, chap. 4 forms the proof of this clause.
	