Romans 3:3.  For what if; as is the case, thus introducing the fact as an objection to be answered. Others divide the verse: ‘For what? (  i.e., what is the case). If some,’ etc. This turns the whole into a guarantee that the oracles are still intrusted to them. Both views are grammatical, but the usual one is preferable. Such objections would be addressed to the Apostle continually, as he labored, more or less assailed by Jewish opposition; while the confirmation of the fact of Romans 3:2 seems unnecessary.
	 Some were without faith.  The emendations of this verse are designed to reproduce the verbal correspondence of the original. There are, however, two views of the sense: (1.) That the faithlessness of the Jews to their trust (Romans 3:2) is meant. (2.) That unbelief in the Messiah is referred to. In favor of (1) are: the immediate context, both Romans 3:2, and the thought of God’s ‘faithfulness’ which follows; the fact that the doctrine of faith has not yet become prominent. But in support of (2) may be urged the common sense of the words used; the fact that God’s dealings, as told in the Old Testament make the reference to ‘unfaithfulness’ superfluous; the digressive character of the passage, the causal connection between unbelief and disobedience recognized in the Bible (if they were unfaithful, it was because they were without faith). We prefer (2), and find an objection growing out of the unbelief of the Jews  at that time, which is more fully discussed in chaps. 9-11. The digression is then into a region of thought where the Apostle’s deepest feelings were concerned. A Jew might well raise such an objection, as if to say: ‘But how do you reconcile this advantage with the rejection of the Messiah you preach?’ As Lange remarks, ‘the unbelievers always remain in the minority in real significance, let their number be ever so great.’
	 Shall their want of faith,  etc. The original shows that a negative answer is expected.
	 The faithfulness of God.  The word used is ‘faith,’ but that it has here the sense of faithfulness is plain, from the Old Testament usage, and from the fact that no other sense is appropriately applied to God.
	