9.For, we rejoice. Either the causal particle γὰρ, (for,) must be taken as meaning — therefore; or it is a second reason, why he does not refuse to be regarded as a reprobate — for their sake, and with a view to their advantage. Let the reader select whichever he may choose, for it is of no consequence. (963) When he says, Provided you are strong, I shall willingly submit to be reckoned weak, there is an antithesis in the words — not in the meaning; for weakness means here, as formerly, (2 Corinthians 13:4,) contempt. On the other hand, he means that the Corinthians will be strong, if they are full of the power and grace of God. And this also, He now again repeats, what he had already stated several times, that he was from necessity — not from his own inclination, more severe than they would have wished; and farther, that by this means, too, (964) he spared them, that he might not be constrained to resort to severer measures, when he was present with them. The perfection, of which he speaks, consists in a fit proportion, and sound condition, of all the members. Now (965) he alludes to good physicians, who cure particular diseases in such a way as not in any part to mutilate the body; (966) and, as he is concerned to secure a perfection of this nature, he says, that, for that reason, he provides against the necessity of having recourse to severer measures. (967) For we see, that those, who at first shrink back from the slight pain, or uneasy feeling of a plaster, are at length constrained to endure the torture of burning, or amputating, and that, too, where the issue is extremely doubtful. (968) (963) “Car c’est tout vn;” — “For it is all one.” (964) “Mesme en ce faisant;” — “Even in doing this.” (965) “Or en parlant ainsi;” — “Now in speaking thus.” (966) The same view, in substance, is taken by Beza, of the meaning of the term κατάρτισιν, which he renders — integram concinnationem (complete adjustment.) “Varia enim est et multiplex verbi,καταρτίζειν significatio. Mihi veto proximum versiculum cure isto comparanti videtur Apostolus nilhil aliud hoc nomine significare, quam suum hoc csse consilium ut Corinthiacae Ecolesiae membris, quae luxata fuerant, rursus in locum suum veluti repositis, totum illud corpus mutuo connexis membris instauretur, Galatians 6:0. Itaque licebat etiam reconcinnationem interpretari;” — “For the meaning of the word καταρτίζειν is various and manifold. On comparing, however, this verse with a subsequent one, I am of opinion that Paul by this term simply means, that it was his design, that those members of the Corinthian Church which had been dislocated, as it were, having been restored to their proper place, the entire body should be renovated by the members being mutually connected together, (as in Galatians 6:1.) Hence we might even render the term — readjustment. ” See Calvin on the Corinthians, vol. 1, p. 63, n. 2. — Ed. (967) “Plus facheux et aspres;” — “More irksome and: severe.” (968) “Voire sans asseurance de guarir pour cela;” — “Even where there is no confidence as to effecting a cure by that means.” 