11.Finally, brethren He qualifies whatever there has been of sharpness throughout the whole of the epistle, as he did not wish to leave their minds in an exasperated state, (971) but rather to soothe them. For then only are reproofs beneficial, when they are in a manner seasoned with honey, that the hearer may, if possible, receive them in an agreeable spirit. At the same time, he appears to turn from a few diseased persons (972) to the entire Church. Hence he declares, that he aims at promoting its perfection, and desires its consolation. To be of one mind, and to live in peace, are expressions which mean two different things; for the one takes its rise from the other. The former relates to agreement of sentiment; the latter denotes benevolence, and union of hearts. And the God of peace This he adds, that his exhortation may have more weight with them, but, at the same time, he intimates that God will be with us, if we cultivate peace among ourselves; but that those that are at variance with each other are at a distance from him. (973) For where there are strifes and contentions, there, it is certain, the devil reigns. Now what agreement is there between light and darkness?(2 Corinthians 6:14.) He calls him the God of peace and love, because he has recommended to us peace and love, because he loves them, and is the author of them. Of the kiss here mentioned we have spoken in the two preceding Epistles. (971) “Il ne vouloit point laisser leurs coeurs offenses ou saisis d’amertume;” — “He did not wish to leave their minds exasperated, or under the influence of bitterness.” (972) “Combien qu’il semble que d’vn propos qu’il addressoit a aucuns qui estoyent commc brebis rogneuses en la compagnie il reuient maintenant route l’Eglise;” — “At the same time, it appears as if, from a discourse which he addressed to some who were like diseased sheep in the herd, he now turns to the entire Church.” (973) “Que tous ceux qui ont debars en sont eslongnez, et n’ont point d’accointance auec luy;” — “That all those who have contentions are at a distance from him, and have no acquaintance with him.”  