Matthew 26:14.  Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot. Matthew does not turn aside from his narrative to declare motives or to heap up epithets. The principal motive, as is inferred from the strong expression of John (John 12:6), was  avarice. Other views: that he was undecided whether he would betray his Master, and wished to see if the chief priests would offer a sufficient inducement; that he felt it his duty to deliver Jesus up; that he tried an experiment, to see if our Lord would save Himself by a miracle, or establish a temporal kingdom. None of these theories agree with the strong language used by our Lord in Matthew 26:24, and John 17:12, or with the positive statement of Luke, that before the interview with the chief priests, ‘Satan entered into ‘him. The character of Judas laid him open to this Satanic influence, and nothing could do this more effectually than love of gain. Temporal ambition doubtless had a place in his heart, but even this was a part of his avarice; for, being treasurer of the Twelve, he might hope to be treasurer of the kingdom. His practical talent must have been marked, to secure this position for him, and the scene at Bethany shows that he had influence among his associates. Whatever was known to our Lord, whatever the purpose of God, the motive of Judas at the time when the Twelve were chosen, was probably the same as that of the others. The rest were neither well instructed nor highly spiritual, and in outward appearance Judas was probably equal to any of them. All were more or less self-seeking, but over him the love and spirit of Christ had no such influence as over the others. As the Lord drew near to Jerusalem, ever telling of His death, Judas could not fail to manifest his real spirit. This was done at the supper in Bethany. The reproof then administered had its effect (hence the order of Matthew and Mark). The triumphal entry of the next day may have encouraged is false hopes, but the subsequent occurrences only disappointed him the more. Seeing the enmity of the rulers, hearing the denunciations (chaps, 22 , 23 ) upon the class, who as rich and honored filled the stations to which his desires pointed, convinced from the final prediction (Matthew 26:2) that our Lord would be put to death, the hour had come when his sordid soul was ready to listen to the suggestions of Satan; ‘then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot.’ The same expression is used by John (John 13:27), at the critical moment when Judas left the Passover feast. His remorse is readily explained. See chap. Matthew 27:3-5. Even that was Satanic.
	 Chief priests.  Luke adds: ‘and captains.’ The latter were the guardians of the temple and its treasures. This probably took place while the Sanhedrin was assembled (Matthew 26:3); but Judas may have made the offer to both, in the hope of getting a better reward.
	