 Therefore  (τοιγαρουν). Triple compound inferential participle (τοι, γαρ, ουν) like the German doch denn nun, a conclusion of emphasis, old particle, in N.T. only here and 1 Thessalonians 4:8. There should be no chapter division here, since Hebrews 12:1-3 really is the climax in the whole argument about the better promises (Hebrews 10:19-12) with a passionate appeal for loyalty to Christ.Us also  (κα ημεις). We as well as "these all" of Hebrews 11:39 and all the more because of the "something better" given us in the actual coming of Christ.Compassed about  (εχοντες περικειμενον). Literally, "having (εχοντες, present active participle of εχω) lying around us" (περικειμενον, present middle participle of περικειμα, old verb as in Luke 17:2).Cloud of witnesses  (νεφος μαρτυρων). Old word (Latin nubes), here only in the N.T., for vast mass of clouds. Νεφελη is a single cloud. The metaphor refers to the great amphitheatre with the arena for the runners and the tiers upon tiers of seats rising up like a cloud. The μαρτυρες here are not mere spectators (θεατα), but testifiers (witnesses) who testify from their own experience (Hebrews 11:2; Hebrews 11:4; Hebrews 11:5; Hebrews 11:33; Hebrews 11:39) to God's fulfilling his promises as shown in chapter Hebrews 12:11.Laying aside  (αποθεμενο). Second aorist-middle (indirect, from ourselves) participle of αποτιθημ, old verb as in Colossians 3:8 (laying off old clothes). The runners ran in the stadium nearly naked.Every weight  (ογκον παντα). Old word (kin to ενεγκειν, φερω) like φορτοσ, βαρος. Here every encumbrance that handicaps like doubt, pride, sloth, anything. No trailing garment to hinder or trip one.The sin which doth so easily beset us  (την ευπεριστατον αμαρτιαν). "The easily besetting sin." There are a dozen possible renderings of this double compound verbal from ευ, well, and περιιστημ, to place around or to stand around (intransitive). The Vulgate has circumstans nos peccatum (the sin standing around us). Probably this is the true idea here, "the easily encompassing (or surrounding) sin." In this case apostasy from Christ was that sin. In our cases it may be some other sin. The verbal adjective reminds one of the ring of wild beasts in the jungle that encircle the camp-fire at night each ready to pounce upon a careless victim.Let us run  (τρεχωμεν). Present active volitive subjunctive of τρεχω, "let us keep on running."With patience  (δι' υπομονης). Not with impatience, doubt, or despair.The race that is set before us  (τον προκειμενον ημιν αγωνα). Note the article and the present middle participle of προκειμα, old compound (already in Hebrews 6:18, and also in Hebrews 12:2). Dative case (ημιν) of personal interest. 