20. Teaching them—This is
	teaching in the more usual sense of the term; or instructing the
	converted and baptized disciples. 
	to observe all things
	whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I—The "I"
	here is emphatic. It is enough that I
am with you alway—"all
	the days"; that is, till making converts, baptizing, and
	building them up by Christian instruction, shall be no more. 
	even unto the end of the
	world. Amen—This glorious Commission embraces two primary
	departments, the Missionary and the Pastoral, with two
	sublime and comprehensive Encouragements to undertake and go
	through with them. 
	First, The MISSIONARY
	department (Matthew 28:18): "Go,
	make disciples of all nations." In the corresponding passage of
	Mark (Mark 16:15) it is, "Go
	ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature."
	The only difference is, that in this passage the sphere, in
	its world-wide compass and its universality of objects, is
	more fully and definitely expressed; while in the former the great
	aim and certain result is delightfully expressed in the
	command to "make disciples of all nations." "Go,
	conquer the world for Me; carry the glad tidings into all lands and
	to every ear, and deem not this work at an end till all nations shall
	have embraced the Gospel and enrolled themselves My disciples."
	Now, Was all this meant to be done by the Eleven men nearest to Him
	of the multitude then crowding around the risen Redeemer? Impossible.
	Was it to be done even in their lifetime? Surely not. In that little
	band Jesus virtually addressed Himself to all who, in every age,
	should take up from them the same work. Before the eyes of the
	Church's risen Head were spread out, in those Eleven men, all His
	servants of every age; and one and all of them received His
	commission at that moment. Well, what next? Set the seal of visible
	discipleship upon the converts, by "baptizing them into the
	name," that is, into the whole fulness of the grace "of the
	Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost," as belonging to
	them who believe. (See on Mark 16:15- :).
	This done, the Missionary department of your work, which in its own
	nature is temporary, must merge in another, which is permanent. This
	is 
	Second, The PASTORAL
	department (Matthew 28:20): "Teach
	them"—teach these baptized members of the Church visible—"to
	observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you," My
	apostles, during the three years ye have been with Me. 
	What must have been the feelings
	which such a Commission awakened? "WE
	who have scarce conquered our own misgivings—we, fishermen of
	Galilee, with no letters, no means, no influence over the humblest
	creature, conquer the world for Thee, Lord? Nay, Lord, do not mock
	us." "I mock you not, nor send you a warfare on your own
	charges. For"—Here we are brought to 
	Third, The ENCOURAGEMENTS
	to undertake and go through with this work. These are two; one in the
	van, the other in the rear of the Commission itself. 
	First Encouragement: "All
	power in heaven"—the whole power of Heaven's love and
	wisdom and strength, "and all power in earth"—power
	over all persons, all passions, all principles, all movements—to
	bend them to this one high object, the evangelization of the world:
	All this "is given unto Me." as the risen Lord of
	all, to be by Me placed at your command—"Go ye
	therefore." But there remains a 
	Second Encouragement: "And
	lo! I am with you all the days"—not only to perpetuity, but
	without one day's interruption, "even to the end of the world,"
	The "Amen" is of doubtful genuineness in this place. If,
	however, it belongs to the text, it is the Evangelist's own closing
	word.