 The word of God  (ο λογος του θεου). That just quoted about the promise of rest and God's rest, but true of any real word of God.Living  (ζων). Cf. the Living God (Hebrews 3:12). In Philo and the Book of Wisdom the Logos of God is personified, but still more in John 1:1-18 where Jesus is pictured as the Logos on a par with God. "Our author is using Philonic language rather than Philonic ideas" (Moffatt). See John 6:63: "The words which I have spoken are spirit and are life."Active  (ενεργης). Energetic, powerful (John 1:12; Philippians 3:21; Colossians 1:29).Sharper  (τομωτερος). Comparative of τομος, cutting (from τεμνω, to cut), late adjective, here only in the N.T.Than  (υπερ). Often so after a comparative (Luke 16:8; 2 Corinthians 12:13).Two-edged  (διστομον). "Two-mouthed" (δι-, στομα), double-mouthed like a river (Polybius), branching ways (Sophocles), applied to sword (ξιφος) by Homer and Euripides.Piercing  (διικνουμενος). Present middle participle of διικνεομα, old verb to go through, here only in N.T.Even to the dividing  (αχρ μερισμου). Old word from μεριζω (μερος, part), to partition.Of soul and spirit  (ψυχης κα πνευματος). As in 1 Thessalonians 5:23; 1 Corinthians 15:45, but not an argument for trichotomy. Psychology is constantly changing its terminology.Of both joints and marrow  (αρμων τε κα μυελων). From αρω, to join, comes αρμος, old word, here only in the N.T. Μυελος (from μυω, to shut), old word, here only in N.T. This surgeon goes into and through the joints and marrow, not cleaving between them.Quick to discern  (κριτικος). Verbal adjective in -ικος, from κρινω, skilled in judging, as the surgeon has to be and able to decide on the instant what to do. So God's word like his eye sees the secret lurking doubt and unbelief "of the thoughts and intents of the heart" (ενθυμησεων κα εννοιων καρδιας). The surgeon carries a bright and powerful light for every dark crevice and a sharp knife for the removal of all the pus revealed by the light. It is a powerful picture here drawn. 