Verse 13. I write unto you, fathers — By fathers it is very likely that the apostle means persons who had embraced Christianity on its first promulgation in Judea and in the Lesser Asia, some of them had probably seen Christ in the flesh; for this appears to be what is meant by, Ye have known him from the beginning. These were the elders and eye witnesses, who were of the longest standing in the Church, and well established in the truths of the Gospel, and in Christian experience. But τοναπ αρχης, him who is from the beginning, may mean Jesus Christ in the eternity of his nature, see John 1:1-2; but the sense is the same.I write unto you, young men — These were confirmed disciples of Christ; persons who were well-grounded in the truth, had been thoroughly exercised in the Christian warfare, were no longer agitated by doubts and fears, but had arrived at the abiding testimony of the Spirit of God in their consciences; hence they are said to have overcome the wicked one, 1 John 2:14. They were persons in the prime of life, and in the zenith of their faith and love.I write unto you, little children — παιδια, a very different term from that used in the 12th verse 1 John 2:12, τεκνια, which means beloved children, as we have already seen. This is another class, and their state is differently described: Ye have known the Father. If the apostle does not use these two words indifferently, four states instead of three, are here described:-1. FATHERS, πατερες. those who had been converted at the very commencement of Christianity, and had seen the eternal Word manifested in the flesh.2. YOUNG MEN, νεανισκοι. youths in the prime of their spiritual life, valiant soldiers, fighting under the banner of Christ, who had confounded Satan in his wiles, and overcome him by the blood of the Lamb.3. LITTLE CHILDREN, παιδια. disciples of Christ, not of very long standing in the Church, nor of much experience, but who had known the Father; i.e. persons who had been made sons: God had sent the Spirit of his Son into their hearts, whereby they cried Abba, Father!4. BELOVED CHILDREN, τεκνια. the most recent converts, and particularly those among young men and women who, from their youth, simplicity, openheartedness, and affectionate attachment to God and his cause, were peculiarly dear to this aged apostle of Jesus Christ. These are represented as having their sins forgiven them on account of his name, διατοονομααυτου, that is, for the sake of Jesus, or on account of his merit or worthiness.These four classes constituted the household or family of God; each class, in ascending gradation, seems to have had more light, experience, and holiness than the other. 1. The τεκνια, beloved children, or infants, are those who are just born into the heavenly family. 2. The παιδια, little children, are those who are able to walk and speak; they know their heavenly Father, and can call him by that name. 3. The νεανισκοι, young men, are such as are grown up to man's estate; these perform the most difficult part of the labour, and are called to fight the battles of the Lord. 4. The πατερες, fathers, are those who are at the foundation of the spiritual family, and have known the whole economy of the work of God in themselves and in others. These have the largest stock of spiritual wisdom and religious experience.All these answer to the component members of a perfect human family. 1. There is the beloved infant dandled on the knees of its parents.2. There are the little children that can speak a little, run about, answer to their own names, distinguish and call on their father and mother, and are now put under instruction. 3. There are the youths, those who are grown up to man's estate, are strong to labour, retain the instructions they have received, act upon them, and are occasionally called upon to defend their family, property, and country, against spoilers and oppressors. 4. There are the parents, the father and mother, from whom the family sprang, and who are the governors and directors of the household.To these four classes, in a perfect family, the apostle appears to allude; and we see, considered in this light, with what delicacy and propriety he uses these images.