 11. ]  καὶ τοῦτο  , and this , i.e. ‘  and let us do this ,’ viz., live in no debt but that of love (see reff.), for other reasons, and especially for this following one.
	 ὥρα ἤδη ἐγερθῆναι ] “The Inf. Aor. here, as after verbs of willing, ordering, &c., betokens the  completion of the act in question. See Winer, § 45. 8 (edn. 6, § 44. 7).” De Wette.
	 ὕπνος here = the state of worldly carelessness and indifference to sin, which allows and practises the ἔργα τοῦ σκότους . The imagery seems to be taken originally from our Lord’s discourse concerning His coming: see Matthew 24:42 ; Mark 13:33 , and Luke 21:28-36 , where several points of similarity to our Rom 13:11-14 occur.
	 ἐγγύτ  .   ἡμ  .   ἡ σωτ  .   ἢ ὅτε ἐπιστ .] σωτηρία , as ἀπολύτρωσις Luke 21:28 , and ch. Romans 8:23 , of the  accomplishment of salvation .  ἡμῶν [is best] taken with ἐγγύτερον , ‘  nearer to us ,’ see ch. Romans 10:8 , [though] ἐγγίζει ἡ ἀπολύτρωσις ὑμῶν , Luke 21:28 , seems [at first sight] to favour the usual connexion with σωτηρία .
	 ἐπιστ .]  we first believed ; see reff. Without denying the legitimacy of an individual application of this truth, and the importance of its consideration for all Christians of all ages, a fair exegesis of this passage can hardly fail to recognize the fact, that the Apostle here as well as elsewhere (1 Thessalonians 4:17 ; 1Co 15:51 ), speaks of the coming of the Lord as  rapidly approaching . Prof. Stuart, Comm. p. 521, is shocked at the idea, as being inconsistent with the inspiration of his writings. How this can be, I am at a loss to imagine. “OF THAT DAY AND HOUR KNOWETH NO MAN, NO NOT THE ANGELS IN HEAVEN, NOR [EVEN] THE SON: BUT THE FATHER ONLY.” Mark 13:32 .
	And to reason, as Stuart does, that because Paul corrects in 2 Thessalonians 2:0 the mistake of imagining it to be  immediately at hand (or even  actually come , see note on ἐνέστηκεν there), therefore he did not himself expect it soon, is surely quite beside the purpose. The fact, that the nearness or distance of that day was  unknown to the Apostles , in no way affects the prophetic announcements of God’s Spirit by them, concerning its preceding and accompanying circumstances. The ‘  day and hour ’ formed no part of their inspiration: the  details of the event, did . And this distinction has singularly and providentially turned out to the edification of all subsequent ages. While the prophetic declarations of the events of that time remain to instruct us, the  eager expectation of the time, which  they expressed in their day , has also remained, a token of the true frame of mind in which each succeeding age (and each succeeding age  a fortiori ) should contemplate the ever-approaching coming of the Lord. On the  certainty of the event , our faith is grounded: by the  uncertainty of the time our hope is stimulated, and our watchfulness aroused. See Prolegg. to Vol. III. ch. v. § iv. 5 10.