29.He disputed with the Grecians. Erasmus noteth well in this place that those are here called Grecians, not which came (624) of Grecians, but rather those Jews who were scattered throughout divers parts of the world. Those men were wont to come together (625) to Jerusalem to worship. And it is to be thought that Paul disputed rather with strangers and aliens, (626) than with those who dwelt at Jerusalem, (627) because this latter sort would never have abidden him, neither had it been wisely done to come in their sight. Therefore being excluded from those who knew him before he tried whether there were any hope to do good amongst men whom he knew not, so that he did most stoutly whatsoever concerned the duty of a valiant soldier. They would have slain him. Behold, again, fury instead of zeal; and it cannot otherwise be, but that hypocrisy and superstition will be cruel and fierce. The godly must be incensed with an holy wrath, when they see the pure truth of God corrupted with false and wicked opinions; yet, so that they moderate their zeal, that they set down nothing until they have thoroughly weighed the cause; and, secondly, that they essay to bring those into the way who wander out of the same. Lastly, that if they see their stubbornness to be past hope, they themselves take not the sword in hand, because they must know that they have no authority granted them of the Lord to (punish or) revenge. But hypocrites are always ready to shed blood before they know the matter; so that superstition is bloody, through blind and headlong fury. But Paul, who of late ran up and down to vex the godly, can abide nowhere now. (628) And yet this estate was far better for him, than if he should have reigned in peace and quietness, driving the godly everywhere out of their places. (624) “Qui oriundi essent ex Graecis,” who were of Greek extraction. (625) “Ex suis provinciis,” from their different provinces. (626) “Advenis... hospitibus,” with guests and strangers. (627) “Indigenis,” with natives. (628) “Fidem figere,” rest his foot. 