 Reiterated Exhortation to Stedfastness, Philippians 4:1.
	In a few most affectionate and earnest words the apostle enforces the exhortation with which the Epistle began (Philippians 1:27), that they should continue stedfast in their Christian course.
	Philippians 4:1.  Therefore. Because you are citizens of a heavenly country, whom the trials and temptations of the world should not be able to draw into forgetfulness of your true home; and because you are expecting a Saviour, and therefore should be in readiness for His coming.
	 my brethren, beloved and longed for. Every word testifying more than the last to the intenseness of the affection with which the apostle’s heart was filled. It is in no mere sense of ordinary Christian brotherhood that he uses the name ‘brethren.’ They are his own, and treasured in his heart, the great desire of which is that he may see them once more. He has used the kindred verb of his own longing after them already (Philippians 1:8), and of the desire, the home-sickness, of Epaphroditus (Philippians 2:26).
	 my joy and crown. Yet, though his heart goes forth to the Philippians in great tenderness, that is not his only thought with reference to them. They have given him as a church nothing but delight. He tells them, therefore, of his rejoicing in the memory of them, and of their love, but, looking forward also to the great day of account, he tells them too that in the judgment day their faith will be his joy and crown in the presence of the Lord, into whose service he has been privileged to bring them.
	 so stand fast. Be stedfast in the way in which I have been pointing out, bearing in mind the humility of Christ, and the feebler yet more attainable example of me, His servant. Then your adversaries shall not prevail over you, and you will be ever preparing and prepared for the advent of Christ
	 in the Lord. But it must not be attempted in your own strength. It must be in trust on Christ, and for the love of Christ, or, while thinking you stand, you will be in peril of falling.
	 my beloved.  The verse runs over with affection from a full heart.
	