13. (Philippians 3:20;
	Philippians 3:21). 
	Looking for—with
	constant expectation (so the Greek) and with joy (Philippians 3:21- :). This will prove the antidote to worldly lusts, and the
	stimulus to "live in this present world" conformably to
	this expectation. The Greek is translated, "waiting
	for," in Luke 2:25. 
	that—Greek,
	"the." 
	blessed—bringing
	blessedness (Romans 4:7; Romans 4:8).
	hope—that is, object of
	hope (Romans 8:24; Galatians 5:5;
	Colossians 1:5). 
	the glorious appearing—There
	is but one Greek article to both "hope" and
	"appearing," which marks their close connection (the hope
	being about to be realized only at the appearing of Christ).
	Translate, "The blessed hope and manifestation
	(compare Note, see on Colossians 1:5- :) of the glory." The Greek for
	"manifestation" is translated "brightness" in Colossians 1:5- :. As His "coming" (Greek, "parousia")
	expresses the fact; so "brightness, appearing," or
	"manifestation" (epiphaneia) expresses His personal
	visibility when He shall come. 
	the great God and our Saviour
	Jesus—There is but one Greek article to "God"
	and "Saviour," which shows that both are predicated of one
	and the same Being. "Of Him who is at once the great God and our
	Saviour." Also (2) "appearing" (epiphaneia) is
	never by Paul predicated of God the Father (John 1:18;
	1 Timothy 6:16), or even of "His
	glory" (as ALFORD
	explains it): it is invariably applied to CHRIST'S
	coming, to which (at His first advent, compare 1 Timothy 6:16- :) the kindred verb "appeared" (epephanee),
	Titus 2:11, refers (1 Timothy 6:14;
	2 Timothy 4:1; 2 Timothy 4:8).
	Also (3) in the context (Titus 2:14)
	there is no reference to the Father, but to Christ alone; and here
	there is no occasion for reference to the Father in the
	exigencies of the context. Also (4) the expression "great God,"
	as applied to Christ, is in accordance with the context, which refers
	to the glory of His appearing; just as "the true God"
	is predicated of Christ, 1 John 5:20.
	The phrase occurs nowhere else in the New Testament, but often in the
	Old Testament. Deuteronomy 7:21; Deuteronomy 10:17,
	predicated of Jehovah, who, as their manifested Lord, led the
	Israelites through the wilderness, doubtless the Second Person in the
	Trinity. Believers now look for the manifestation of His glory,
	inasmuch as they shall share in it. Even the Socinian explanation,
	making "the great God" to be the Father, "our
	Saviour," the Son, places God and Christ on an equal
	relation to "the glory" of the future appearing: a fact
	incompatible with the notion that Christ is not divine; indeed it
	would be blasphemy so to couple any mere created being with God.