12. Teaching—Greek,
	"disciplining us." Grace exercises discipline, and
	is imparted in connection with disciplining chastisements (1 Corinthians 11:32;
	Hebrews 12:6; Hebrews 12:7).
	The education which the Christian receives from "the grace"
	of God is a discipline often trying to flesh and blood: just as
	children need disciplining. The discipline which it exercises
	teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts, and to
	live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world
	(Greek, "age," or course of things) where such
	self-discipline is needed, seeing that its spirit is opposed to God
	(Titus 1:12; Titus 1:16;
	1 Corinthians 1:20; 1 Corinthians 3:18;
	1 Corinthians 3:19): in the coming world we
	may gratify every desire without need of self-discipline, because all
	desires there will be conformable to the will of God. 
	that—Greek, "in
	order that"; the end of the "disciplining" is "in
	order that . . . we may live soberly," c. This point is lost
	by the translation, "teaching us." 
	denying . . . lusts—
	(Luke 9:23). The Greek
	aorist expresses "denying once for all." We deny
	"worldly lusts" when we withhold our consent from them,
	when we refuse the delight which they suggest, and the act to which
	they solicit us, nay, tear them up by the roots out of our soul and
	mind [ST. BERNARD, Sermon
	11]. 
	worldly lusts—The Greek
	article expresses, "the lusts of the world," "all
	worldly lusts" [ALFORD],
	(Galatians 5:16 Ephesians 2:3;
	1 John 2:15-17; 1 John 5:19).
	The world (cosmos) will not come to an end when this
	present age (aeon) or course of things shall end. 
	live soberly, righteously,
	and godly—the positive side of the Christian character;
	as "denying . . . lusts" was the negative.
	"Soberly," that is, with self-restraint, in relation
	to one's self: "righteously" or justly, in
	relation to our neighbor; "godly" or piously,
	in relation to God (not merely amiably and justly,
	but something higher, godly, with love and reverence toward
	God). These three comprise our "disciplining" in faith
	and love, from which he passes to hope (1 John 5:19- :).