18. beguile—Translate,
	"Defraud you of your prize," literally, "to adjudge a
	prize out of hostility away from him who deserves it" [TRENCH].
	"To be umpire in a contest to the detriment of one." This
	defrauding of their prize the Colossians would suffer, by
	letting any self-constituted arbitrator or judge (that
	is, false teacher) draw them away from Christ," the righteous
	Judge" and Awarder of the prize (2 Timothy 4:8;
	James 1:12; 1 Peter 5:4),
	to angel-worship. 
	in a voluntary humility—So
	"will-worship" (1 Peter 5:4- :). Literally, "Delighting ([WAHL])
	in humility"; loving (so the Greek is translated,
	Mark 12:38, "love to
	go in long clothing") to indulge himself in a humility of
	his own imposing: a volunteer in humility [DALLÆUS].
	Not as ALFORD, "Let
	no one of purpose defraud you," c. Not as GROTIUS,
	"If he ever so much wish" (to defraud you). For the
	participle "wishing" or "delighting," is one of
	the series, and stands in the same category as "intruding,"
	"puffed up," "not holding" and the self-pleasing
	implied in it stands in happy contrast to the (mock) humility
	with which it seems to me, therefore, to be connected. His
	"humility," so called, is a pleasing of self: thus
	it stands in parallelism to "his fleshly mind" (its real
	name, though he styles it "humility"), as "wishing"
	or "delighting" does to "puffed up." The Greek
	for "humility" is literally, "lowliness of mind,"
	which forms a clearer parallel to "puffed up by his fleshly
	mind." Under pretext of humility, as if they durst not
	come directly to God and Christ (like the modern Church of Rome),
	they invoked angels: as Judaizers, they justified this on the ground
	that the law was given by angels. This error continued long in
	Phrygia (where Colosse and Laodicea were), so that the Council of
	Laodicea (A.D. 360)
	expressly framed its thirty-fifth canon against the "Angelici"
	(as AUGUSTINE [Heresies,
	39], calls them) or "invokers of angels." Even as late as
	THEODORET'S time, there
	were oratories to Michael the archangel. The modern Greeks have a
	legend that Michael opened a chasm to draw off an inundation
	threatening the Colossian Christians. Once men admit the inferior
	powers to share invocation with the Supreme, the former gradually
	engrosses all our serious worship, almost to the exclusion of the
	latter; thus the heathen, beginning with adding the worship of other
	deities to that of the Supreme, ended with ceasing to worship Him at
	all. Nor does it signify much, whether we regard such as directly
	controlling us (the pagan view), or as only influencing the
	Supreme in our behalf (the Church of Rome's view); because he from
	whom I expect happiness or misery, becomes the uppermost object in my
	mind, whether he give, or only procure it [Cautions
	for Times]. Scripture opposes the idea of "patrons" or
	"intercessors" (1 Timothy 2:5;
	1 Timothy 2:6). True Christian humility
	joins consciousness of utter personal demerit, with a sense of
	participation in the divine life through Christ, and in the dignity
	of our adoption by God. Without the latter being realized, a false
	self-humiliation results, which displays itself in ceremonies and
	ascetic self-abasement (Colossians 2:23),
	which after all is but spiritual pride under the mock guise of
	humility. Contrast "glorying in the Lord" (Colossians 2:23- :). 
	intruding into . . . things
	which he hath not seen—So very old manuscripts and Vulgate
	and ORIGEN read. But the
	oldest manuscripts and LUCIFER
	omit "not"; then translate, "haughtily treading on
	('Standing on' [ALFORD])
	the things which he hath seen." TREGELLES
	refers this to fancied visions of angels. But if Paul had
	meant a fancied seeing, he would have used some qualifying
	word, as, "which he seemed to see," not "which
	he hath seen." Plainly the things were actually
	seen by him, whether of demoniacal origination (Colossians 2:23- :), or phenomena resulting from natural causation,
	mistaken by him as if supernatural. Paul, not stopping to discuss the
	nature of the things so seen, fixes on the radical error, the
	tendency of such a one in all this to walk by SENSE
	(namely, what he haughtily prides himself on having SEEN),
	rather than by FAITH in
	the UNSEEN "Head"
	(Colossians 2:19; compare John 20:29;
	2 Corinthians 5:7; Hebrews 11:1).
	Thus is the parallelism, "vainly puffed up" answers to
	"haughtily treading on," or "setting his foot on";
	"his fleshly mind" answers to the things which he hath
	seen," since his fleshliness betrays itself in priding himself
	on what he hath seen, rather than on the unseen objects
	of faith. That the things seen may have been of demoniacal
	origination, appears from 1 Timothy 4:1,
	"Some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to
	seducing spirits and doctrines of devils" (Greek,
	"demons"). A warning to modern spiritualists. 
	puffed up—implying that
	the previous so called "humility" (Greek, "lowliness
	of mind") was really a "puffing up." 
	fleshly mind—Greek,
	"By the mind of his own flesh." The flesh, or sensuous
	principle, is the fountain head whence his mind draws its craving
	after religious objects of sight, instead of, in true humility
	as a member, "holding fast the (unseen) Head."