11. Implying that they did not
	need, as the Judaizers taught, the outward rite of circumcision,
	since they had already the inward spiritual reality of it. 
	are—rather, as the
	Greek, "Ye were (once for all) circumcised
	(spiritually, at your conversion and baptism, Romans 2:28;
	Romans 2:29; Philippians 3:3)
	with a (so the Greek) circumcision made without hands";
	opposed to "the circumcision in the flesh made by hands"
	(Ephesians 2:11). Christ's own body,
	by which the believer is sanctified, is said to be "not made
	with hands" (Mark 14:58;
	Hebrews 9:11; compare Hebrews 9:11- :). 
	in putting off—rather
	as Greek, "in your putting off"; as an old garment
	(Ephesians 4:22); alluding to the
	putting off the foreskin in circumcision. 
	the body of the sins of the
	flesh—The oldest manuscripts read, "the body of the
	flesh," omitting "of the sins," that is, "the
	body," of which the prominent feature is fleshiness
	(compare Romans 8:13, where "flesh"
	and "the body" mutually correspond). This fleshly body, in
	its sinful aspect, is put off in baptism (where baptism answers its
	ideal) as the seal of regeneration where received in repentance and
	faith. In circumcision the foreskin only was put off; in
	Christian regeneration "the body of the flesh" is
	spiritually put off, at least it is so in its ideal conception,
	however imperfectly believers realize that ideal. 
	by—Greek, "in."
	This spiritual circumcision is realized in, or by, union with Christ,
	whose "circumcision," whereby He became responsible for us
	to keep the whole law, is imputed to believers for justification; and
	union with whom, in all His vicarious obedience, including HIS
	CIRCUMCISION, is the source of our sanctification. ALFORD
	makes it explanatory of the previous, "a circumcision made
	without hands," namely, "the circumcision brought about by
	your union with Christ." The former view seems to me better to
	accord with Colossians 2:12; Colossians 3:1;
	Colossians 3:3; Colossians 3:4,
	which similarly makes the believer, by spiritual union with Christ,
	to have personal fellowship in the several states of Christ, namely,
	His death, resurrection, and appearing in glory. Nothing was done or
	suffered by our Mediator as such, but may be acted in our souls and
	represented in our spirits. PEARSON'S
	view, however, is that of ALFORD.
	JOSHUA, the type (not
	Moses in the wilderness), circumcised the Israelites in Canaan (Colossians 3:4- :) the second time: the people that came out of Egypt having
	been circumcised, and afterwards having died in the wilderness; but
	those born after the Exodus not having been so. Jesus, the Antitype,
	is the author of the true circumcision, which is therefore called
	"the circumcision of Christ" (Colossians 3:4- :). As Joshua was "Moses' minister," so Jesus,
	"minister of the circumcision for the truth of God" unto
	the Gentiles (Romans 15:8).