8. Translate, "Beware
	(literally, 'Look' well) lest there shall be (as I fear there
	is: the Greek indicative expresses this) any man (pointing to
	some known emissary of evil, Galatians 1:7)
	leading you away as his spoil (not merely gaining spoil out of
	you, but making yourselves his spoil) through (by means of)
	his philosophy," c. The apostle does not condemn all
	philosophy, but "the philosophy" (so Greek)
	of the Judaic-oriental heretics at Colosse, which afterwards was
	developed into Gnosticism. You, who may have "the riches
	of full assurance" and "the treasures of
	wisdom," should not suffer yourselves to be led away as a spoil
	by empty, deceitful philosophy: "riches" are
	contrasted with spoil "full" with "vain," or
	empty (Colossians 2:2; Colossians 2:3;
	Colossians 2:9). 
	after—"according
	to." 
	tradition of men—opposed
	to, "the fulness of the Godhead." Applied to
	Rabbinical traditions, Colossians 2:9- :. When men could not make revelation even seem to tell
	about deep mysteries which they were curious to pry into, they
	brought in human philosophy and pretended traditions to help it, as
	if one should bring a lamp to the sundial to find the hour [Cauations
	for Times, p. 85]. The false teachers boasted of a higher wisdom
	in theory, transmitted by tradition among the initiated; in practice
	they enjoined asceticism, as though matter and the body were the
	sources of evil. Phrygia (in which was Colosse) had a propensity for
	the mystical and magical, which appeared in their worship of Cybele
	and subsequent Montanism [NEANDER].
	rudiments of the world—(See
	on Colossians 2:9- :). "The rudiments"
	or elementary lessons "of the (outward) world," such as
	legal ordinances; our Judaic childhood's lessons (Colossians 2:11;
	Colossians 2:16; Colossians 2:20;
	Galatians 4:1-3). But NEANDER,
	"the elements of the world," in the sense, what
	is earthly, carnal and outward, not "the rudiments of
	religion," in Judaism and heathenism. 
	not after Christ—"Their"
	boasted higher "philosophy" is but human tradition, and a
	cleaving to the carnal and worldly, and not to Christ. Though
	acknowledging Christ nominally, in spirit they by their doctrine deny
	Him.