23. have—Greek, "are
	having"; implying the permanent characteristic which
	these ordinances are supposed to have. 
	show of wisdom—rather,
	"a reputation of wisdom" [ALFORD].
	will-worship—arbitrarily
	invented worship: would-be worship, devised by man's own
	will, not God's. So jealous is God of human will-worship, that He
	struck Nadab and Abihu dead for burning strange incense ( :-). So Uzziah was stricken with leprosy for usurping the
	office of priest ( :-). Compare the will-worship of Saul ( :-) for which he was doomed to lose his throne. This
	"voluntary worship" is the counterpart to their "voluntary
	humility" (Colossians 2:18): both
	specious in appearance, the former seeming in religion to do even
	more than God requires (as in the dogmas of the Roman and
	Greek churches); but really setting aside God's will for man's own;
	the latter seemingly self-abasing, but really proud of man's
	self-willed "humility" (Greek, "lowliness of
	mind"), while virtually rejecting the dignity of direct
	communion with Christ, the Head; by worshipping of angels. 
	neglecting of the body—Greek,
	"not sparing of the body." This asceticism seems to have
	rested on the Oriental theory that matter is the source of evil. This
	also looked plausible (compare Colossians 2:18- :). 
	not in any honour—of
	the body. As "neglecting of the body" describes asceticism
	positively; so this clause, negatively. Not paying any
	of that "honor" which is due to the body as redeemed by
	such a price as the blood of Christ. We should not degrade, but have
	a just estimation of ourselves, not in ourselves, but in Christ
	(Acts 13:46; 1 Corinthians 3:21;
	1 Corinthians 6:15; 1 Corinthians 7:23;
	1 Corinthians 12:23; 1 Corinthians 12:24;
	1 Thessalonians 4:4). True self-denial
	regards the spirit, and not the forms of ascetical self-mortification
	in "meats which profit not those occupied therein" (1 Thessalonians 4:4- :), and is consistent with Christian self-respect, the "honor"
	which belongs to the believer as dedicated to the Lord. Compare
	"vainly," Colossians 2:18. 
	to the satisfying of the
	flesh—This expresses the real tendency of their human
	ordinances of bodily asceticism, voluntary humility, and will-worship
	of angels. While seeming to deny self and the body, they
	really are pampering the flesh. Thus "satisfying of the
	flesh" answers to "puffed up by his fleshly
	mind" (Colossians 2:18), so that
	"flesh" is used in its ethical sense, "the carnal
	nature" as opposed to the "spiritual"; not in the
	sense, "body." The Greek for "satisfying"
	implies satiating to repletion, or to excess. "A
	surfeit of the carnal sense is human tradition" [HILARY
	THE DEACON, in
	BENGEL]. Tradition puffs
	up; it clogs the heavenly perceptions. They put away true "honor"
	that they may "satiate to the full THE
	FLESH." Self-imposed ordinances gratify the flesh
	(namely, self-righteousness), though seeming to mortify it.