4.In this confidence The Greek term being ὑπόστασις the Old Interpreter has rendered it substantiam , (substance.) (708) Erasmus renders it argumentum , (subject-matter,) but neither is suitable. Budaeus, however, observes, that this term is sometimes taken to mean boldness, or confidence, as it is used by Polybius when he says, ὀυχ οὑτω την δύναμιν ὡς τὴν ὑπόστασιν καὶ τόλμαν αὐτοῦ καταπεπληγμένον τῶν εναντίων — “It was not so much his bodily strength, as his boldness and intrepidity, that proved confounding to the enemy.” (709) Hence ὑποτατικός sometimes means one that is bold and confident. (710) Now every one must see, how well this meaning accords with Paul’s thread of discourse. Hence it appears, that other interpreters have, through inadvertency, fallen into a mistake. (708) In Wiclif’s version, (1380,) the rendering is, “in this substaunce;” Rheims (1582) has, “in this substance.” (709) The expression here quoted from Polybius, (lib. 6: cap. 53, p. 691,) is made use of by the historian in relating a heroic exploit of Publius Horatius Cocles, who, on occasion of a sudden attempt being made upon the city of Rome by Porsena, king of Clusium, the most powerful prince at that time in Italy, having stationed himself, with singular intrepidity, on the Sublician bridge, along with two others, withstood the attack of the enemy, and effectually obstructed their progress, until the bridge was cut down from behind, after which he leaped into the river, and swam across to his friends in safety, amidst the darts of the enemy. In honor of this daring adventure, a statue of Cocles, as is stated by Livy, (2:10,) was placed in the Comitium, and a grant of land was made to him, as much as he could plow round in one day. Raphelius adduces another instance in which Polybius employs ὑπόστασις in the same sense — “When the Rhodians,” says he, “perceive τὴν τῶν Βυζαντιῶν ὑποστασαι — the intrepidity of the Byzantians.” (Pol. lib. 6: p. 440.) — Ed (710) The adjective ὑποστατικός is used in this sense by Aristotle, Eth. End. ii. 5, 5, and the adverb derived from it, ὑποστατικῶς, has a corresponding signification in Polybius, (lib. 5: cap. 16, p. 508, line 1,) Τοῦ δὲ βασιλέως ὑποστατικῶς φήσαντος “the king having spoken with firmness. ” — Ed. 