Philippians 3:9.  and be found in him. Whenever God shall make the inquiry, in allusion, most likely, to the day of Judgment. But there may also be reference made to that passing away of old things on which he is now dwelling. Thus the thought would include that of 2 Corinthians 5:17: ‘If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.’ In this way the finding would refer to the union with Christ, both in time and in eternity. And this union is so real, that the apostle calls those who enjoy it a very portion of Christ. They are  in  him, they are more than stones in the temple of which He forms the head-corner; in Christ, according to His own prayer (John 17:23), believers are made one, both in God and in themselves. Thus both St. Paul’s statements are true, ‘We being many are one body in Christ;’ and again, ‘Ye are the body of Christ.’
	 not having a righteousness of mine own, even that which is of the law. The righteousness here spoken of is described as proceeding  out of  the law, that is, from the perfect observance thereof. As no man since the fall has kept the law, whatever advance any might make towards perfection therein, even if they were unblameable in the eyes of men, they could never thereby attain unto salvation. Yet the Jews, as St. Paul testifies (Romans 10:1-6), had gone about to establish such a righteousness for themselves. They (and the apostle had been one of them) had a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.
	 but that which is through faith in Christ,  Here is a different kind of righteousness. It is not derived from what man can do, as in observance of the law, but comes to men through their belief in the incarnation and sacrifice of Christ.
	 the righteousness which is of God by faith. Here the righteousness is defined as the gift of God; could it have been secured in the law, it would have been man’s own earning and desert; but since that may not be, it is given to the faithful of God’s grace. The expression ‘by faith’ is not quite simple. The preposition might also be rendered ‘upon.’ And this more literal rendering perhaps brings out most nearly the sense which seems to be ‘on the condition of faith.’ But since He who bestows the faith is also God (cf. 2 Peter 1:4-5), both the faith and the righteousness have their efficient cause in God, and the latter is given in succession to the former, according as men use the boon first bestowed. Therefore the full force of the words is ‘when faith is rightly used,’ which also may be the sense of ‘by faith.’
	