Philippians 3:10.  That I may know him. The verb ‘know,’ when used in the Old and New Testament of God and Christ, has a very full sense, and implies a full comprehension of the Divine nature and will, and also of the duties and obligations which men should yield to the Deity. All this the apostle would here comprehend in the word, for he immediately proceeds to explain that both the divine and the human in Christ is to be known by His followers: of the former they are to feel the help, of the latter they are to follow the example.
	 and the power of his resurrection.  This is the divinity of Jesus demonstrated to mankind. But not only is the power of Christ known to Christians from His own rising, but from the sense and assurance which that gives them of their own resurrection. Thus this power of Christ fills them with hope, for this world is not the end of their being, and gives them courage in afflictions, for they shall reap in due time if they faint not.
	 and the fellowship of his sufferings.  In a later letter (2 Timothy 2:12) the apostle says, ‘If we be dead with Him, we shall also live with Him; if we suffer, we shall also reign with Him.’ To the Philippians he puts most prominently forward the necessity of a share in the sufferings of Christ He himself has found the truth of the Master’s saying: ‘He that will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.’ For Christians the order is as in the life of Christ: the power of the resurrection is not known apart from or before the fellowship of the sufferings. For us, however, the comfort and support of our knowledge comes unto us in the midst of our sufferings, and gives us strength to bear them.
	 becoming conformed unto his death.  It will not perhaps be a death in character like Christ’s which the apostle will have to bear, but of that he is not sure. But he knows that he will ever be in danger of such a death, and he is prepared to lay down his life in that manner, if God so ordain. In this way he is brought by his present trials and threatened end into such resemblance as the servant may bear unto his Master.
	