 12 .]  The praise of Demetrius .  Testimony hath been borne to Demetrius by all (scil. who know him, and have brought report concerning him: “nemo qui non”),  and by the truth itself (it is not very easy to explain this expression. If we understand it that the reality of facts themselves supports the testimony of the πάντες , we have abundance of authority for the expression in classical usage: Wetst. gives, from Demost. contra Neær. (qu. page?), δεῖ δ ʼ ὑμᾶς ἑξ αὐτῆς τῆς ἀληθείας τὴν ἀκρίβειαν ἀκούσαντας τῆς τε κατηργορίας καὶ τῆς ἀπολογίας οὕτως ἤδη τὴν ψῆφον φέρειν : de corona, p. 232, τούτων τοιούτων ὄντων καὶ ἐπ ʼ αὐτῆς τῆς ἀληθείας οὕτω δεικνυμένων . And from Æsch., contra Timarch., καταμεμαρτυρημένος ὑπὸ τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ βίου καὶ τῆς ἀληθείας . And thus Œc. ( ὑπ ʼ αὐτῆς τῆς ἀλ ., τοῦ ἐνεργοῦς λόγοι · εἰσὶ γάρ τινες οἷς μαρτυρεῖται μὲν ἀρετή , κατεψευσμένη δὲ ἐπὶ ἀπράκτῳ λόγῳ ), Corn.-a-lap., Bart.-Petr., Grot., (“rebus ipsis”), Joach.-Lange, Carpzov., G. Lange, al., and Beausobre, who (Düsterd.) explains it “sa conduite est un témoin réel de sa vertu.” But there are two reasons against this view: 1) that it does not correspond to the objective fact asserted in the μεμαρτύρηται , nor to the parallelizing of this testimony with that of the πάντες and that of the Apostle: and 2) that thus the Christian and divine sense of ἡ ἀλήθεια which St. John seems always to put forward, would be entirely sunk. Nor is the former of these met either by Schlichting, who says, “si ipsa veritas loqui posset, homini isti præberet testimonium virtutis et probitatis,” or by Lücke, “if infallible Christian truth itself, cf. 3 John 1:3 , could be asked, it would bear favourable witness of him.” Against both there is the  μεμαρτύρηται , as matter of fact, not of hypothesis. Baumg.-Crus. would understand that Demetrius had done much for the truth, and his deeds were his witness: but this is hardly a witness of ἡ ἀλήθεια to him. Sander takes refuge in the extraordinary supposition, that the Holy Spirit had revealed to the Apostle the truth respecting Demetrius. Huther regards the testimony borne by the truth to be that furnished by the πάντες , whose evidence was decisive, not from their credit as men, but because they all spoke of and from the truth of Christ dwelling in them. This would reduce this new μαρτυρία to the former, and would in fact besides include the following in it likewise. The best interpretation is that of Düsterdieck (from whom much of this note is derived). The objective Truth of God, which is the divine rule of the walk of all believers, gives a good testimony to him who really walks in the truth. This witness lies in the accordance of his walk with the requirement of God’s Truth. It was the mirror in which the walk of Demetrius was reflected: and his form, thus seen in the mirror of God’s Truth, in which the perfect form of Christ is held up to us ( 1Jn 2:6 ; 1 John 3:3 ; 1Jn 3:16 ), appeared in the likeness of Christ; so that the mirror itself seemed to place in a clear light his Christian virtue and uprightness, and thus to bear witness to him):  yea, we too (see ref. and note there. The contrast here is between his own personal testimony (for to that and not to any collective one does ἡμεῖς refer) and the two testimonies foregoing)  bear testimony, and thou knowest that our testimony is true (see reff.).