 5 8 .]  Praise of the hospitality shewn by Caius; and reason of that praise .  Beloved (beginning again of new address: see above on 3Jn 1:2 ),  thou doest a faithful act ( ἄξιον πιστοῦ ἀνδρός , as Œc. and most interpreters. De W. and Bengel explain it “fidele facis: facis quiddam quod facile a te pollicebar mihi et fratribus.” But the other is better. In πιστὸς ὁ λόγος , 1Ti 1:15 al., there is possibly the same allusion: not only a saying worthy of credit, but one belonging to those who are of the πίστις )  whatsoever thou workest (the aor. betokens these deeds as summed up in one and characterized as πιστόν )  towards (so the Lord in Mat 26:10 describes His anointing by Mary thus, καλὸν ἔργον  εἰργάσατο εἰς ἐμέ )  the brethren, and that (and those brethren),  strangers ( φιλοξενία is an especial mark of Christian ἀγάπη , Romans 12:13 , 1 Timothy 3:2 , Titus 1:8 , Hebrews 13:2 , 1Pe 4:9 ),  who (the above-named ξένοι ἀδελφοί )  bore testimony to thy love in the presence of the church (viz. where St. John was at the time of writing. They were Evangelists, 3 John 1:7 ; and thus would naturally give the church an account of their missionary journey, during which they were so hospitably treated by Caius):  whom thou wilt do well if thou forward on their way (as Bengel says, the future is a “morata formula hortandi.” The aor. part. presents no difficulty: it will then, and not till then, be a good act, when it is done. And this would only be expressed by the fut. with an aor. part.: οὓς καλῶς ποιήσεις προπέμπων would be liable to be rendered “whom thou wilt benefit by forwarding &c.” the present part. being, in such a conjunction, timeless, and merely ratiocinative. On  προπέμψ ., see reff. and Tit 3:13 )  worthily of God (this qualification belongs to προπέμψας , not as Carpzov., who supplies a καί before ἀξίως , to ποιήσεις , “well and worthily of God.” The words mean, in a manner worthy of Him whose messengers they are and whose servant thou art).  For on behalf of the Name (  of Christ : see the second ref., and cf. Ignat. ad Ephesians 3:0 and 7, pp. 648 f., and ad Philad. 10, p. 705, δοξάσαι τὸ ὄνομα . Bengel says, “subaudi, Dei. Leviticus 24:11 . Conf. Jac. 2:7.” But neither of these places applies. O. T. usage is naturally no guide for us here; and St. James alludes to the name of  Christ )  they went forth (on their missionary journey: not, as Beza, Erasm.-Schmidt, Wolf, Carpzov., Bengel, “were driven forth:” see more below),  taking nothing (receiving nothing by way of benefaction or hire: even as St. Paul in Achaia, 1 Corinthians 9:18 , 2 Corinthians 11:7 ff; 2 Corinthians 12:16 ff., 1 Thessalonians 2:9 ff.: against Huther, who denies the applicability of the comparison, seeing that in St. Paul’s case they were  Christian churches : but so must these have been before they would contribute to the support of their missionaries. Notice  μηδέν ; implying that it was their own deliberate purpose; refusing to take any thing: οὐδέν would have expressed only the  fact , which might have arisen from the remissness of the ἐθνικοί , and might have been, considered by themselves as a hardship. This is the force of μηδέν , and not as Dusterd., that οὐδέν would only have stated the fact, but by μηδέν the Apostle presents it for the consideration of his readers)  from the heathens (reff. The expositors spoken of above under ἐξῆλθον , take these words as belonging to it, “expulsi sunt a paganis,” and interpret μηδέν λαμβάνοντες , “nihil secum asportantes,” “omnibus rebus spoliati.” Grot., who takes ἐξῆλθον of expulsion, understands it to have been “a Judæa, per Judæos incredulos, ob Christum:” and takes the rest as meaning “potuerant in ista calamitate adjuvari misericordia τῶν ἔξω , sed maluerunt omnia Christianis debere.” But the whole interpretation is forced and unnatural, and the ordinary one obvious, and very suitable, considering the motive put forward in 3 John 1:8 , which clearly shews them to have been workers for God’s truth. The pres. part. λαμβάνοντες indicates, not what they did  when they ἐξῆλθον , but their habit after their setting out: and is as so often, indicative of norm, without any particular time being pointed out. So that we need not, with Huther and Düsterd., imagine that there is an allusion to a missionary  maxim , to take nothing from the heathen, in accordance with which they acted).  We therefore (  ἡμεῖς , contrast to the ἐθνικοί : οὖν , because they μηδὲν λαμβάνουσιν ἀπὸ τ . ἐθνικῶν )  ought to support (see Strabo in reff. Notice the allusion to λαμβάνοντες above. The word does not seem to signify “receive hospitably,” as some have explained it, nor does it imply, as Œc., Thl., appealing to ὑπέλαβόν με ὡσεὶ λέων ἕτοιμος εἰς θήραν , Ps. 16:12, anticipating, not waiting to be asked, in the exercise of good offices)  such persons, that we may become fellow-workers (  with them )  for the truth (this, and not as vulg. “ut cooperatores simus veritatis” (so Luth., Grot., Bengel, al.), is the construction. Those with whom one is συνεργός , are put in the  gen. , see Romans 16:3 ; Romans 16:9 ; Romans 16:21 , 1Co 3:9 al. The dat. is commodi: to promote the cause of the truth: so συνεργοὶ εἰς τὴν βασιλείαν τ . θεοῦ , Colossians 4:11 , συνεργὸν τοῦ θεοῦ ἐν τῷ εὐαγγελίῳ , 1Th 3:2 ).