 9, 10 .]  Notice of the hostility of Diotrephes .  I wrote somewhat to the church (the  τι does not imply that the thing written was specially important, nor on the other hand does it depreciate; but merely designates indefinitely: cf. Acts 23:17 , ἔχει γὰρ ἀπαγγεῖλαί τι αὐτῷ , and Luke 7:40 , Σίμων , ἔχω σοί τι εἰπεῖν : and Matthew 20:20 . The contents of the Epistle are not hinted at. The “scripsissem forsitan” of the vulgate ( ἔγραψα ἄν , see var. readd.) has arisen from a foolish notion that the Apostle must not be represented as having written any thing which has been lost to us. The ἐκκλησία is apparently the church of which Caius was a member: not as Bengel, that out of which the missionaries of 3Jn 1:7 had gone forth):  howbeit (  ἀλλά after an affirmative sentence is stronger than the mere adversative  but : see Kühner, Gr. ii. p. 436)  Diotrephes who loveth pre-eminence ( ὁ ὑφαρπάζων τὰ πρωτεῖα as the ancient Schol. He appears to have been not, as Bed [1] , “hæresiarcha temporis illius quidam superbus et insolens, malens nova dicendo primatum sibi usurpare scientiæ quam antiquis sanctæ Ecclesiæ, quæ Johannes prædicabat, humiliter auscultare mandatis:” so much is not implied in the words, but only that be was an ambitious man who willed that not the Apostle but himself should rule the church)  over them (the members of the church, implied in the word ἐκκλησία . The gen. after verbs of preeminence, as ὅς ἀριστεύεσκε μάχεσθαι Τρώων , Il ζ . 460: καλλιστεύσει πασέων τῶν ἐν Σπάρτῃ γυναικῶν , Herod. vi. 161. See Kühner, ii. p. 197)  receiveth us not (does not recognize our authority: here in an improper sense, but in the next verse probably literal: see there. Its more usual sense in Polybius, who uses it frequently, is to  admit of , τοῦ καιροῦ οὐκ ἐπιδεχομένου καταμονήν , iii. 79. 12. The ἡμᾶς wants no explanation such as “monita nostra,” “ συστατικάς nostras,” or the like: in rejecting the Apostle’s person, he rejected all his influence).  On this account, if I should come (see for ἐάν 1Jn 2:28 ),  I will bring to mind (i. e. as Bed [2] , “in omnium notitiam manifestius arguendo producam:” see reff. No αὐτόν is understood: it is not to  his mind, but to the minds of all)  his works which he doeth (what they were, is explained by the participle following),  prating against us (this is the best rendering of  φλυαρῶν , which conveys not only the λοιδορῶν , κακολογῶν of Œc., but also that the reproaches were mere tattle, worth nothing, irrelevant: so Eustathius on Il. χ . 361, in Raphel, h. l., τὸ ἐν οὐ δέοντι λόγους προϊέναι φλυεῖν λέγεται κ . φλυαρεῖν . Cf. 1Ti 5:13 )  with wicked speeches: and not satisfied with ( ἀρκεῖσθαι is ordinarily (see reff.) with a dative: the  ἐπί , as in χαίρειν ἐπί , and similar expressions, introduces the ground on which the ἀρκεῖσθαι superimponitur)  this (more probably plur., as in 3 John 1:4 , where the whole matter in question is meant, than as agreeing with the λόγοι πονηροί , which had not been the only things mentioned of him),  neither doth he himself receive the brethren (here  ἐπιδέχομαι seems best taken in its literal sense, as in Polyb. xxii. 1. 3, ἅπαντας ἐπεδέχετο φιλανθρώπως (if the reading can be depended upon), of entertaining hospitably, see 2 John 1:10 . The  ἀδελφοί are probably the same as in 3 John 1:5 , the travelling missionaries),  and (so  καί after  οὔτε in reff., and Eur. Iph. Taur. 595 f., εἶ γὰρ οὔτε δυσγενής , καὶ τὰς Μυκήνας οἶσθα . τε is more frequently found, see Kühner, Gramm. ii. p. 441. The occurrence of the construction explains itself. It is found when the negative form of the first member of a series of connected clauses, is not possible or not convenient in the second or any following one. Here it might have been, but not so forcibly expressed, οὔτε τοὺς βουλομένους ἐᾷ )  hinders (by forbidding: cf. 1Th 2:16 )  those that would (receive them),  and casts them (those that would receive the brethren: not, as C. F. Fritzsche, Carpzov., al., the travelling brethren themselves)  out of the church (manifestly, by excommunication, which owing to his influence among them he had the power to inflict. There is no difficulty, nor any occasion to take the word as pointing at that which Diotrephes was  attempting to do or  threatening to do, and so as spoken in irony (Huther): the present tense indicates his habit, as  ἐπιδέχεται and ποιεῖ above. He was evidently one in high power, and able to forbid, and to punish, the reception of the travelling brethren. See prolegg.).
	 [1] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [2] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	