 2 4 .]  Wish that Caius may prosper, as his soul prospers: and ground of this latter assertion .  Beloved (the repetition of ἀγαπητέ is due perhaps more to the fact that the direct address begins here, than to any specific motive, such as the supposed ill-health of Caius, as Düsterd. from Lücke (but not in his 3rd edn.)),  I pray that concerning all things thou mayest prosper (  περὶ πάντων is taken by many, e. g. Beza (E. V.), Wahl, Lücke (1st edn.), al., and recently by Düsterd., as signifying “above all things:” for which they allege Hom. Il. α . 287, ἀλλ ʼ ὅδ ʼ ἀνὴρ ἐθέλει περὶ πάντων ἔμμεναι ἄλλων . But it has been urged on the other side 1) that Homeric usage is no real index to N. T. usage: 2) that the meaning in Homer is not that sought here: 3) that it would be unnatural for the Apostle to pray for Caius’s bodily health and prosperity “above all things.” And hence the other modern Commentators, Lücke (edn. 2), De Wette, Huther, Sander, have taken the above meaning: which cannot be impugned, as Düsterd., by saying that περί is never found joined with εὐοδοῦσθαι , or that ἐν πᾶσιν would be more natural than περὶ πάντων .  περί with a gen. is too usual signifying reference, to be set aside or judged of by the consideration of the verb which precedes: St. John himself uses it with verbs of very various classes.  εὐοδοῦσθαι is pass. of εὐοδόω , of which the neut. form is εὐοδέω , from εὐοδία , to have a καλὴ ὁδός : - όω , to make, or give a καλή ὁδός . So Hesych., εὐοδώσει , κατευθυνεῖ · εὐωδώθη , ἡτοιμάσθη . So that the pass. εὐοδοῦσθαι comes to much the same as the intrans. εὐοδεῖν . Its use is common, and regular, in the LXX. See notes on reff., and Lücke’s and Düsterd.’s account of the usages, here)  and be in health (i. e. bodily health. περὶ πάντων , in all probability, does not belong to ὑγιαίνειν , but only to εὐοδοῦσθαι : the latter verb is a particular, taken out of the former, which is general),  even as thy soul prospereth (viz. ἐν τῇ κατὰ τὸ εὐαγγέλιον πολιτείᾳ , Œc.: as is shewn by what follows. There is a passage in Philo, Quis rer. div. hæres, § 58, vol. i. p. 514, in which the well-being of body and soul are similarly compared: ὅταν εὐοδῇ μοι τὰ ἐκτὸς πρὸς εὐπορίαν καὶ εὐδοξίαν · εὐοδῇ τὰ σώματος πρὸς ὑγείαν τε καὶ ἰσχύν , εὐοδῇ δὲ καὶ τὰ ψυχῆς πρὸς ἀπόλαυσιν ἀρετῶν ).  For I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified to thy truth (the participles ἐρχ . and μαρτ . are in reality timeless, and convey merely the reason of the ἐχάρην : but such a connexion is given in English by the temporal adverb, which has in this case rather a ratiocinative than a purely temporal force. In  σου τῇ ἀληθείᾳ , the subst. is necessarily subjective thy share of that Truth in which thou walkest, see below),  even as (almost =  how that , see below)  thou walkest in truth (this clause is not an independent one, adding the testimony of the Apostle to that of the brethren, “as (I know that) thou walkest &c.:” but is epexegetical of the former clause, and states the substance of the testimony of the brethren, as is shewn by what follows,  ἀκούω τὰ ἐμὰ τ . κ . τ . λ .).