1. Previously the oneness
	of Christ's offering was shown; now is shown its perfection as
	contrasted with the law sacrifices. 
	having—inasmuch as it
	has but "the shadow, not the very image," that is, not the
	exact likeness, reality, and full revelation, such as the Gospel has.
	The "image" here means the archetype (compare  :-), the original, solid image [BENGEL]
	realizing to us those heavenly verities, of which the law furnished
	but a shadowy outline before. Compare 2 Corinthians 3:13;
	2 Corinthians 3:14; 2 Corinthians 3:18;
	the Gospel is the very setting forth by the Word and Spirit of the
	heavenly realities themselves, out of which it (the Gospel) is
	constructed. So ALFORD. As
	Christ is "the express image (Greek, 'impress') of
	the Father's person" (Hebrews 1:3),
	so the Gospel is the heavenly verities themselves manifested by
	revelation—the heavenly very archetype, of which the
	law was drawn as a sketch, or outline copy (Hebrews 1:3- :). The law was a continual process of acted prophecy, proving
	the divine design that its counterparts should come; and proving the
	truth of those counterparts when they came. Thus the imperfect and
	continued expiatory sacrifices before Christ foretend, and now prove,
	the reality of, Christ's one perfect antitypical expiation. 
	good things to come—
	(Hebrews 9:11); belonging to "the
	world (age) to come." Good things in part made present by
	faith to the believer, and to be fully realized hereafter in actual
	and perfect enjoyment. Lessing says, "As Christ's Church on
	earth is a prediction of the economy of the future life, so the Old
	Testament economy is a prediction of the Christian Church." In
	relation to the temporal good things of the law, the spiritual and
	eternal good things of the Gospel are "good things to come."
	Colossians 2:17 calls legal ordinances
	"the shadow," and Christ "the body." 
	never—at any time (Colossians 2:17- :). 
	with those sacrifices—rather,
	"with the same sacrifices. 
	year by year—This
	clause in the Greek refers to the whole sentence, not merely
	to the words "which they the priests offered" (Greek,
	"offer"). Thus the sense is, not as English Version,
	but, the law year by year, by the repetition of the same
	sacrifices, testifies its inability to perfect the worshippers;
	namely, on the YEARLY day
	of atonement. The "daily" sacrifices are
	referred to, Hebrews 10:11. 
	continually—Greek,
	"continuously," implying that they offer a toilsome and
	ineffectual "continuous" round of the "same"
	atonement-sacrifices recurring "year by year." 
	comers thereunto—those
	so coming unto God, namely, the worshippers (the whole people)
	coming to God in the person of their representative, the high priest.
	perfect—fully meet
	man's needs as to justification and sanctification (see on Hebrews 10:11- :).