5. Christ's voluntary self
	offering, in contrast to those inefficient sacrifices, is shown to
	fulfill perfectly "the will of God" as to our redemption,
	by completely atoning "for (our) sins." 
	Wherefore—seeing that a
	nobler than animal sacrifices was needed to "take away sins."
	when he cometh—Greek,
	"coming." The time referred to is the period before
	His entrance into the world, when the inefficiency of animal
	sacrifices for expiation had been proved [THOLUCK].
	Or, the time is that between Jesus' first dawning of reason as a
	child, and the beginning of His public ministry, during which, being
	ripened in human resolution, He was intently devoting Himself to the
	doing of His Father's will [ALFORD].
	But the time of "coming" is present; not "when
	He had come," but "when coming into the world";
	so, in order to accord with ALFORD'S
	view, "the world" must mean His PUBLIC
	ministry: when coming, or about to come, into public. The
	Greek verbs are in the past: "sacrifice . . . Thou didst
	not wish, but a body Thou didst prepare for Me"; and,
	"Lo, I am come." Therefore, in order to harmonize
	these times, the present coming, or about to come, with the
	past, "A body Thou didst prepare for Me," we must
	either explain as ALFORD,
	or else, if we take the period to be before His actual arrival
	in the world (the earth) or incarnation, we must explain the
	past tenses to refer to God's purpose, which speaks of
	what He designed from eternity as though it were already fulfilled.
	"A body Thou didst prepare in Thy eternal counsel." This
	seems to me more likely than explaining "coming into the world,"
	"coming into public," or entering on His public
	ministry. David, in the fortieth Psalm (here quoted), reviews his
	past troubles and God's having delivered him from them, and his
	consequent desire to render willing obedience to God as more
	acceptable than sacrifices; but the Spirit puts into his mouth
	language finding its partial application to David, and its full
	realization only in the divine Son of David. "The more any son
	of man approaches the incarnate Son of God in position, or office, or
	individual spiritual experience, the more directly may his holy
	breathings in the power of Christ's Spirit be taken as utterances of
	Christ Himself. Of all men, the prophet-king of Israel resembled and
	foreshadowed Him the most" [ALFORD].
	a body hast thou prepared
	me—Greek, "Thou didst fit for Me a body."
	"In Thy counsels Thou didst determine to make for Me a body,
	to be given up to death as a sacrificial victim" [WAHL].
	In the Hebrew, Psalms 40:6,
	it is "mine ears hast thou opened," or "dug."
	Perhaps this alludes to the custom of boring the ear of a slave
	who volunteers to remain under his master when he might be free.
	Christ's assuming a human body, in obedience to the Father's
	will, in order to die the death of a slave (Psalms 40:6- :), was virtually the same act of voluntary submission to
	service as that of a slave suffering his ear to be bored by his
	master. His willing obedience to the Father's will is what is
	dwelt on as giving especial virtue to His sacrifice (Hebrews 10:7;
	Hebrews 10:9; Hebrews 10:10).
	The preparing, or fitting of a body for Him, is not
	with a view to His mere incarnation, but to His expiatory sacrifice
	(Hebrews 10:10), as the contrast
	to "sacrifice and offering" requires; compare also Romans 7:4;
	Ephesians 2:16; Colossians 1:22.
	More probably "opened mine ears" means opened mine
	inward ear, so as to be attentively obedient to what God wills me
	to do, namely, to assume the body He has prepared for me for my
	sacrifice, so Job 33:16,
	Margin; Job 36:10
	(doubtless the boring of a slave's "ear" was the symbol of
	such willing obedience); Job 36:10- :, "The Lord God hath opened mine ear," that is,
	made me obediently attentive as a slave to his master. Others
	somewhat similarly explain, "Mine ears hast thou digged,"
	or "fashioned," not with allusion to Job 36:10- :, but to the true office of the ear—a willing, submissive
	attention to the voice of God (Isaiah 50:4;
	Isaiah 50:5). The forming of the ear
	implies the preparation of the body, that is, the incarnation; this
	secondary idea, really in the Hebrew, though less prominent,
	is the one which Paul uses for his argument. In either explanation
	the idea of Christ taking on Him the form, and becoming obedient
	as a servant, is implied. As He assumed a body in which to make
	His self-sacrifice, so ought we present our bodies a living
	sacrifice (Romans 12:1).