 Without controversy  (ομολογουμενως). Old adverb from the participle ομολογουμενος from ομολογεω. Here only in N.T. "Confessedly."Great  (μεγα). See Ephesians 5:32. "A great mystery."The mystery of godliness  (το της ευσεβειας μυστηριον). See verse 1 Timothy 3:9 "the mystery of the faith," and 1 Timothy 2:2 for ευσεβεια. Here the phrase explains "a pillar and stay of the truth" (verse 1 Timothy 3:15). See in particular Colossians 1:27. "The revealed secret of true religion, the mystery of Christianity, the Person of Christ" (Lock).He who  (ος). The correct text, not θεος (God) the reading of the Textus Receptus (Syrian text) nor ο (neuter relative, agreeing with μυστηριον) the reading of the Western documents. Westcott and Hort print this relative clause as a fragment of a Christian hymn (like Ephesians 5:14) in six strophes. That is probably correct. At any rate ος (who) is correct and there is asyndeton (no connective) in the verbs. Christ, to whom ος refers, is the mystery (Colossians 1:27; Colossians 2:2).Was manifested  (εφανερωθη). First aorist passive indicative of φανεροω, to manifest. Here used to describe the incarnation (εν σαρκ) of Christ (an answer also to the Docetic Gnostics). The verb is used by Paul elsewhere of the incarnation (Romans 16:26; Colossians 1:26) as well as of the second coming (Colossians 3:4).Justified in the spirit  (εδικαιωθη εν πνευματ). First aorist passive indicative of δικαιοω, to declare righteous, to vindicate. Christ was vindicated in his own spirit (Hebrews 9:14) before men by overcoming death and rising from the dead (Romans 1:3).Seen of angels  (ωφθη αγγελοις). First aorist passive indicative of οραω, to see, with either the instrumental or the dative case of angels (αγγελοις). The words were probably suggested by the appearance of Jesus (ωφθη, the usual form for the resurrection appearances of Christ) of the angels at the tomb and at the ascension of Christ. See Philippians 2:10; 1 Peter 3:22 for the appearance of Jesus to the angels in heaven at the ascension. Some would take "angels" here to be "messengers" (the women).Preached among the nations  (εκηρυχθη εν εθνεσιν). First aorist passive indicative of κηρυσσω, to proclaim. The word εθνος may mean "all creation" (Colossians 1:23) and not just Gentiles as distinct from Jews. Paul had done more of this heralding of Christ among the Gentiles than any one else. It was his glory (Ephesians 3:1; Ephesians 3:8). Cf. 1 Timothy 2:7.Believed on in the world  (επιστευθη εν κοσμω). First aorist indicative passive again of πιστευω, to believe (2 Thessalonians 1:10). Cf. 1 Timothy 1:15; 2 Corinthians 5:19.Received up in glory  (ανελημφθη εν δοξη). First aorist passive again (six verbs in the same voice and tense in succession, a rhythmic arrangement like a hymn). Cf. Romans 8:29. This time the verb is αναλαμβανω, the verb used of the ascension (Acts 1:11; Acts 1:22, which see). In a wonderful way this stanza of a hymn presents the outline of the life of Christ. 