 6. ]  But (transeuntis: he comes to the conclusion of what he has to say on their party divisions)  these things (De Wette, Meyer, al., limit ταῦτα to what has been said since ch. 1 Corinthians 3:5 . But there surely is no reason for this. The Apostle’s meaning here must on all hands be acknowledged to be, ‘I have taken our two names as samples that you may not attach yourselves to and be proud of  any party leaders, one against another.’ And if these  two names which had been last mentioned, why not analogously,  those four which he had also alleged in ch . 1Co 1:12 ? There can be no reason against this, except the determination of the Germans to regard their Paulus-parthei, and Apollos-parthei, and Petrus-parthei, and Christus-parthei, as historical facts, and consequent unwillingness to part with them here, where the Apostle himself by implication repudiates them as such)  I transferred (the epistolary aorist)  to myself and Apollos (i.e. when I might have set them before you generally and in the abstract as applying to all teachers, I have preferred doing so by taking two samples, and  transferring to them what was true of the whole. This is far more probable than the explanation of Chrys., al., that he put in his own name and that of Apollos instead of those of the real leaders of sects, concealing them on purpose. On μετασχ ., see reff. and cf. Plato, Legg. x. p. 903, μετασχηματίζων τὰ πάντα οἷον ἐκ πυρὸς ὕδωρ , and p. 906, τοῦτο τὸ ῥῆμα μετεσχηματισμένον , Meyer)  on your account, that ye by us (as your example: by having our true office and standing set before you)  might learn this, “Not above those things which are written” (i.e. not to exceed in your estimate of yourselves and us, the standard of Scripture, which had been already in part shewn to them in the citations ch. 1 Corinthians 1:19 ; 1Co 1:31 ; 1 Corinthians 3:19 . To refer γέγραπται to  what has been written in this Epistle , as Luth., Calov., Calv. (altern.), is quite inadmissible, for, as Grot. remarks, “ γέγραπται in his libris semper ad libros Veteris Testamenti refertur.” But he (and Olsh.) refer the words to Deuteronomy 17:20 , whereas it is far better to give them a perfectly general reference. Chrys., Theodoret, and Theophyl. refer it to  words of our Lord in the N. T. , such as Matthew 7:1 ; Matthew 7:3 ; Matthew 23:12 ; Mark 10:43-44 , but these could not be indicated by γέγραπται , cf. ch. 1Co 7:10 and note.
	The ellipsis, as here, of the  verb in prohibitory clauses, with μή , is common enough: thus, Aristoph. Vesp. 1179, μή μοί γε μύθους . Soph. Antig. 577, μὴ τριβὰς ἔτι , ἀλλά νιν κομίζετ ʼ εἴσω . Demosth. phil. i. p. 46, μή μοι μυρίους μηδὲ δισμυρίους ξένους . Hartung, Partikellehre ii. 153, where see more examples),  that ye may not one on behalf of another be puffed up against a third (i.e. ‘that you may not adhere together in parties to the detriment of disparagement of a neighbour who is attached to a different party’). There is a grammatical difficulty here, the occurrence of ἵνα with an indic. pres. This is variously explained. see winer, edn. 6, § 41.  b . 1. c. Some suppose that here, and in ref. Gal. st. Paul has commited a philogical error in the formation of the subjunctive, and written the indic. for it. It is at least remarkable, that that other instance, ἵνα αὐτοὺς ζηλοῦτε , is  also in the case of a contracted syllable in ου , so that we might almost suppose that there was some provincial usage of forming the subj. of constracted verbs in οω , which our Apostle followed. At all events (especially considering that we have two other cases of ἵνα with an indic., see reff.) it is better to suppose a solecism or peculiar usage, than with Meyer to give ἵνα a local sense, ‘  where ,’ i.e. ‘in which  case ye are not (pres. for the future)  puffed up ,’ i.e. if you keep to the Scripture measure: the double ἵνα of the purpose being, as he himself observes, according to Paul’s usage, Romans 7:13 ; Galatians 3:14 ; Galatians 4:5 , al., and here being absolutely demanded by the sense.