1 Peter 4:19.  Wherefore let them also that suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to a faithful Creator in well-doing.  The ‘wherefore’ introduces this advice as an inference from what has been said about suffering, the relation of suffering Christians to their persecutors, the feelings of Christians in reference to their sufferings, and especially the hastening judgment of God which already begins in the trials of His House. In view of all this, the advice with which the train of thought is brought to a close worthy of it, is to fearless faith and earnest well-doing. The word ‘also,’ which the A. V. wrongly omits, is taken by some (Huther, etc.) to qualify the ‘wherefore,’ as if the sense were ‘For this reason, too,’ etc. But the analogous statement in 1 Peter 3:14, and the fact that throughout the present paragraph the  strangeness  which Christians are tempted to discover in their own subjection to suffering, indicate rather that the ‘also’ qualifies the persons. The sense, therefore, is, ‘let those also who have to suffer, strange as it may seem to them that they should have to suffer, commit their souls,’ etc. The ‘according to the will of God’ does not refer to the submissive spirit in which the sufferers endure, but to the animating consideration that their sufferings come only by God’s purpose. Their souls are regarded as a deposit which they should be willing to leave confidently in God’s hands, the term rendered ‘commit’ (which the A. V. renders ‘commit the keeping of’) being used of entrusting persons or objects of value to one’s care (Luke 12:48; Acts 14:23; Acts 20:32; 1 Timothy 1:18; 2 Timothy 1:12; 2 Timothy 1:14; 2 Timothy 2:2). It is the word which Christ Himself used upon the Cross ‘Father, into Thy hands I commend (or, commit) my spirit’ (Luke 23:46). The God who is to be confidently trusted with so precious a deposit is designated a faithful Creator (the ‘as’ of the A. V. must be omitted on the ground of documentary evidence);  Creator  (which particular term is used only this once in the New Testament, and is to be taken in the literal sense, and not as if = possessor, or as if = Creator anew), and, therefore, One who has an interest in the work of His own hands; and  faithful  Creator, One whom we have every reason to regard as absolutely reliable.
	 in well-doing. The necessary accompaniment and evidence of a true trust in God, here put emphatically last as a caution against all indolent or immoral presuming on our special relationship to God. This is the single occurrence of the noun in the New Testament. ‘To do well and to suffer well should be the only care of those who are called upon to suffer; God Himself will take care of all else’ (Bengel).
	