Defamed [δυσφημουμενοι] . Publicly slandered; while reviled refers to personal abuse. Intreat [παρακαλουμεν] . See on consolation, Luke 6:24, and comfort, Acts 9:31. The sense is, we strive to appease by entreaty. Filth - offscouring [περικαθαρματα - περιψημα] . The former word is from perikaqairw to cleanse all round. Hence that which is thrown off in cleansing; refuse. Kaqarma the refuse of a sacrifice. So Aeschylus. Electra says : "Should I, like one who has carried away refuse [καθαρμαθ] from a purification, after tossing away the urn, go back again with unturned eyes ?" (" Choephoroe, "90). In Proverbs 21:18, Sept., it occurs in the sense of ransom. Some find an allusion here to an ancient Athenian custom of throwing certain worthless persons into the sea in case of plague or famine, saying Be our offscouring! These persons were called perikaqarmata offscourings, or periyhmata scrapings, in the belief that they would wipe away the nation 's guilt. Ignatius says to the Ephesians, periyhma uJmwn I am your offscouring. The sense is twofold : I am as the meanest among you; and I devote my life for you. In the middle of the third century, periyhma sou had become a common expression of formal compliment : your humble servant. See Lightfoot," Apostolic Fathers, "on Ignatius to the Ephesians, 8." Compare Lamentations 3:45, and Tobit 5 18. Periyhma that which is scraped or scoured off. Both words only here in the New Testament. This tremendous piece of irony justifies the numerous allusions which have been made to Paul 's vehemence and severity. Thus Dante, in his vision of the Earthly Paradise, pictures Paul : " Two old men I beheld, unlike in habit, But like in gait, each dignified and grave. One (Luke) showed himself as one of the disciples Of that supreme Hippocrates whom Nature Made for the animals she holds most dear, Contrary care the other (Paul) manifested, With sword so shining and so sharp, it caused Terror to me on this side of the river. "" Purgatorio," 29, 134 - 141. "His words, indeed, seem to be those of a simple, and, as it were, an innocent and rustic man, who knows neither how to frame nor to avoid wiles; but whithersoever you look, there are thunderbolts" (Jerome). "Paul thunders, lightens, utters pure flames" (Erasmus). See a collection of quotations in Farrar's "Life and Work of St. Paul," 1, 619. 86