 13 .]  And again, I will put my trust in Him (there is considerable dispute as to the original place from which this citation comes. Most Commentators, and recently Bleek and Delitzsch, have believed it to be taken from Isaiah 8:17 , where the words occur in the LXX, immediately preceding the next citation. The only objection to this view is, that it would be hardly likely in this case that the words καὶ πάλιν would have occurred, but the two citations would have proceeded as one. And hence the words have been sought in other places: e. g. in Psalms 18:3 (Psalms 17:2 , LXX), where however the LXX have ἐλπιῶ ἐπ ʼ αὐτόν : so Calv., Beza, Limborch, al.: Isaiah 42:1 , so Schöttgen; where however, besides the LXX being different ( ἀντιλήψομαι αὐτοῦ ), the words are spoken in a totally different reference. The  same words are found in the LXX in 2 Sam. (2 Kings) 2 Samuel 22:3 ( πεποιθὼς ἔσομαι ἐπ ʼ αὐτῷ ); and Isaiah 12:2 , where however the Alexandrine recension, with which our Writer mostly agrees, has  ἐν αὐτῷ . There is no objection to the first of these passages being the  origin of our citation; and the alleged non-Messianic character of the Psalm will weigh very light with those who view the Psalms as above set forth.
	Still, regarding the above-stated objection as of no weight, owing to the diversity of the two cited clauses, the one expressive of personal trust in God, the other declaratory respecting a relation to others (cf. also ch. Hebrews 10:30 , which is a nearly though not exactly similar case), I prefer, as the more natural, the opinion which derives both texts from the same place of Isaiah. On the sense then see below):  and again, Behold I and the children which God gave me (Isaiah 8:18 . Considerable difficulty has been made by the Commentators in applying these citations to Christ. I own that the question seems to me to be admirably stated by Theodoret on Psalms 22:0 , μᾶλλον γὰρ πιστευτέον τοῖς ἱεροῖς ἀποστόλοις κ . αὐτῷ τῷ σωτῆρι χρωμένῳ σαφῶς τῷ τοῦ ψαλμοῦ προοιμίῳ ἢ τοῖς παρερμηνεύειν ἐπιχειροῦσιν . But this does not preclude our entering on an attempt in each case to give a distinct account of the rationale of the application. In the passage of Isaiah ( Heb 2:11-18 ), the Prophet is especially blaming the people of Judah under Ahaz, for having called in the help of the Assyrian king against Pekah king of Israel, and Rezin king of Syria. And in these verses (Hebrews 2:17 f.) the Prophet expresses his own determination, in spite of the reliance of the people on the confederacy, to wait for the Lord, and to remain, he and the children whom God had given him, for signs and wonders in Israel from the Lord of Hosts, which dwelleth in Zion. Then, from Isa 8:18 to Isaiah 9:7 , is set forth the prospect of future deliverance to Judah coming from their God, ending with the glorious anticipation of the great future Deliverer. This confident speech of the Prophet our Writer adopts at once as the words of the greatest of all Prophets thereby  assuming the prophetic office of Christ. Thus the matter illustrated (for there is no demonstration here; this verse is a  consequence of the last, of δι ʼ ἣν αἰτίαν ) is, that as the Prophet Isaiah withstood the human dependence of his age, and stood forth, he and the children whom God had given him, and who were begotten in pursuance of the divine command, as a sign to Israel, so  the great Prophet himself fulfilled the same office and had the same hopes, and bore the same relation to those among whom He prophesied, praising God with them, leading them in confidence on God, and speaking of them as one family and stock with Himself. So that our passage forms a notable instance of the prophetic office of Christ being taken as the antitype of the official words and acts of all the Prophets, just as His kingly office fulfils and takes up all that is said and done by the theocratic Kings, and His priestly office accomplishes all the types and ordinances of the O. T. Priesthood. There is one difference between Christ and the Prophet, which Ebrard, fully as he enters into the general argument, has missed, owing to his applying πολλοὺς υἱοὺς .… ἀγαγόντα , above, to Christ. The παιδία are not the children of Christ (Chrys., Thdrt., vulg.: “  pueri mei ,” al.), as they were of Isaiah, but the children of God. John 17:6 , σοὶ ἦσαν , καὶ ἐμοὶ αὐτοὺς ἔδωκας , seems decisive for this. They are God’s children, and God has given them to Him. So also Schlichting, Grot., Kuin., Bleek, De W., Lünem., al. See on next verse: and Delitzsch’s note here. He agrees in the main with the above, but would restrict the reference to Christ of prophetic words and acts, to those occasions when the Prophets were put eminently forward as signs, as Isaiah in this case. But is not the very fact of being commissioned as a prophet, such a putting forward? Cf. Hofmann’s remarks in the Weissagung u. Erfüllung, ii. p. 110).