 11 13 .] The connexion with the foregoing cannot be made plain, till we have discussed the meaning of  ἐξ ἑνός below. It may suffice to say, that the assertion, and the quotations, are subordinate to the πολλοὺς υἱούς in Hebrews 2:10 .
	 For both the Sanctifier and (notice the τε καί , which bind closely together in one category)  the sanctified (both the participles are in their official substantival sense, as ὁ πειράζων , and the like. The imperfection of our passive in English prevents our accurately expressing a present passive participle: ‘they that are being sanctified’ is perhaps, though we are obliged sometimes to use it, hardly allowable English. The word  ἁγιάζω (see reff.) signifies in LXX and N. T. usage the selecting out and adopting for God’s service. It is not here, as Bleek infers, = σώζω , but as every where, when used in allusion to Christ’s work on His people, involves that transforming and consecrating process, of which His Spirit is the actual agent. Hence, believers are ordinarily not ἡγιασμένοι , but ἁγιαζόμενοι , as here: the difference being, as may be traced in reff., that where their present state is spoken of, the participle is present: where God’s purpose respecting them, and Christ’s finished work, the perfect. Sanctification is glory working in embryo: glory is sanctification come to the birth and manifested.
	It is disputed whether the reference of these words is to be considered as general, applying to every case of sanctifier and sanctified, as, e. g., the priest and the people under the old law (so Schlichting, Schöttgen, al.), the firstfruits and the remaining harvest (so Cappellus): or is to be restricted to Christ and His people alone. Certainly the latter seems to be required by the context, and most of all by the assumption of the subject in the next clause tacitly as contained in ὁ ἁγιάζων . The ground on which Christ is our Sanctifier has also been variously alleged. Grotius leaves the connexion very loose, when he says, “Christus nos sanctos facit doctrina sua et exemplo. Ille ex Spiritu sancto conceptus est, et nos per Spiritum sanctum novam adipiscimur naturam; ita communem habemus originem.” But this obviously does not reach the depth of the following argument, see especially Hebrews 2:17 ; and we must believe that there is a reference to the expiatory death of Christ: see also ch. Hebrews 10:10 ; Hebrews 10:14 , and more in the note there) (  are )  of one (  ἑνός , as will be seen by the usage in reff., must be taken as  masculine ; not with Carpzov, Abresch, al., supplied by σπέρματος or αἵματος , nor understood “ex communi massa,” with Cappellus, al., “ex una natura,” Calv., nor “puritatem conditionis spiritalis,” as Cameron, similarly Corn.-a-lapide. And if masculine, what are we to supply? Erasm. (par.), Beza, Estius (as an altern.), Hofmann, al. say,  Adam : Bengel (whose note is well worth consulting), Peirce, al.,  Abraham . But it seems far better and simpler here, on account of the  πολλοὺς υἱούς above, and as satisfying fully the force of  ἐκ , to understand  God to be meant. So all the patristic Commentators, and almost all the recent ones, including Delitzsch: most of them however giving it the very wide sense of ref. 1 Cor. ἡμῖν εἱς θεὸς ὁ πατήρ , ἐξ οὗ τὰ πάντα , which is referred to here by Chrys., (and so Thdrt., καὶ τοῦτο κατὰ τὸ ἀνθρώπινον λέγεται , κτιστὴ γὰρ ἡ ληφθεῖσα φύσις · εἷς δέ γε καὶ ἡμῶν καὶ αὐτῆς ποιητής ). But this can hardly be. For the argument in this particular place is not to shew  by what means , viz. by becoming man, Christ made men into sons, but, that sonship of Himself and them towards the Father having been predicated, to justify the use of the common term. And thus we are driven to a sense of υἱοί commensurate with ἁγιαζόμενοι , by which word the Writer takes it up again. So that it is not here the mere physical unity of all men with Christ which is treated, but the further and higher spiritual unity of the ἁγιάζων and the ἁγιαζόμενοι , as evinced by his speaking of them. The same is plain from Heb 2:14 below: see there. So that it is the higher Sonship of God, common to the Lord and those whom the Father by Him is leading to glory, which must be understood. See John 8:47 ; 1 John 3:10 ; 1Jn 4:6 ; 1 John 5:19 ; 3 John 1:11 .
	Note, that the point brought out here is not that the holiness of our Lord’s human nature, and our holiness, are both of one, viz. the Father ( Joh 10:36 ): which, however true, would be introducing a matter not belonging to the argument  here ),  all (  of them ) (after the  τε    καί  ,   πάντες forms a sort of pleonastic repetition; but comes with considerable force. On account of the  τε    καί , it is quite impossible, with Bengel, al., to confine the πάντες to the ἁγιαζόμενοι only: and his argument, “  utrosque , dicturus, si  sanctificantem τῷ πάντες , omnes, includeret,” goes for nothing: the ἁγιαζόμενοι being not set over against the ἁγιάζων as a second  class , but thought of in their multitudinous distinctness as individuals. The connexion with Heb 2:10 will now be plain: ‘ πολλοὺς υἱούς was the right expression to use of those who are brought to glory,  for they are of the same divine stock have the same heavenly Father as their ἀρχηγός , the one proper Son of God.’ And this will be now illustrated by His own words:  on which account (reff. especially 2 Tim., Tit.: viz. because they are all of one)  He (Christ: see above)  is not ashamed (see ref. ὁρᾷς πῶς πάλιν δείκνυσι τὴν ὑπεροχήν ; τῷ γὰρ εἰπεῖν οὐκ ἐπαισχύνεται , δείκνυσιν οὐ τῆς τοῦ πράγματος φύσεως , ἀλλὰ τῆς φιλοστοργίας τοῦ μὴ ἐπαισχυνομένου τὸ πᾶν ὄν , καὶ τῆς ταπεινοφροσύνης τῆς πολλῆς , Chrys.)  to call them ( τοὺς ἁγιαζομένους )  brethren (the Commentators quote from Philo de Septenario, § 8, vol. ii. p. 284, τοὺς μὲν (scil. τοὺς ὁμοεθνεῖς ) καλέσας εὐθυβόλως ἀδελφούς , ἵνα μηδεὶς φθονῇ τῶν ἰδίων ὡς ἂν ἐκ φύσεως συγκληρονόμοις ἀδελφοῖς ),  saying, I will declare (LXX, διηγήσομαι )  thy name to my brethren, in the midst of the assembly will I sing of thee (it will be sufficient to refer, respecting the general sense and prophetic import of Psalms 22:0 , to what has been before said, on Psalms 8:0 (above, Heb 2:6 ), and on similar citations elsewhere. The Psalm was originally the expression of a suffering saint, in all probability David, communing with his God: laying forth to Him his anguish, and finally triumphing in confidence of His gracious help and deliverance. But by the mouth of such servants of God did the prophetic Spirit speak forth His intimations respecting the Redeemer to come. No word prompted by the Holy Ghost had reference to the utterer only. All Israel was a type: all spiritual Israel set forth the second Man, the quickening spirit: all the groanings of God’s suffering people prefigured, and found their fullest meaning in, His groans, who was the chief in suffering. The maxim cannot be too firmly held, nor too widely applied, that all the O. T. utterances of the Spirit anticipate Christ, just as all His N. T. utterances set forth and expand Christ: that Christ is every where involved in the O. T., as He is every where evolved in the N. T. And this Psalm holds an illustrious place among those which thus point onward to Christ. Its opening cry, “My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?” was uttered by the Lord Himself in His last agony. The most minute particulars detailed in it are by the Evangelists adduced as exemplified in the history of His Passion: see e. g. ( Mat 27:35 rec.) John 19:24 . And, as Bleek well observes, the particulars chosen out of that history by St. Matthew seem to have been selected with an especial view to the illustration and fulfilment of this Psalm. Ebrard, in his note here, insists on the authorship of the Psalm by David, and on its date, as belonging to the time of his persecution by Saul. Then he maintains the exact parallelism of the circumstances with those of the second and greater David, and refers the ἀδελφούς here to the countrymen of David, who were hereafter to be his subjects. I have no positive objection to this view. Subordinately to the deeper and wider one, it might be applicable in individual instances: but that other seems to me both safer and nearer the truth. See especially on the Psalm, Delitzsch, h. l.
	The particular verse here chosen, the 22nd, forms the transition-point from the suffering to the triumphant portion of the Psalm: and consequently the resolution expressed in it by the Messiah has reference to His triumphant state, in which he is still not ashamed to call his people brethren. It is characteristic of the object of this Epistle with reference to its intended readers, that whereas the Writer might have cited two instances as matters of fact, in which our Lord did call His disciples brethren after His resurrection (see John 20:17 ; Mat 28:10 ), yet he has not done so, but has preferred to establish his point by O. T. citations).