 18 .] Explanation, how the  κατὰ πάντα τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς ὁμοιωθῆναι has answered the end, ἵνα ἐλεήμων γένηται κ . τ . λ .  For He Himself having been tempted in that which He hath suffered, He is able to succour them that are (now)  tempted (the construction is much doubted. The ordinary rendering is to take  ἐν ᾧ as equivalent to ‘  forasmuch as ,’ “  in that ,” E. V., and to justify it by the Hebrew בַּאֲשֶׁר . But it is doubtful whether  ἐν ᾧ has ever this meaning absolutely. It seems only to approach to it through ‘  quatenus ,’ ‘  in as far as ,’ which is an extension of its strict meaning, ‘  in that particular in which,’ ‘wherein .’ And this slightly extended meaning is preferable in all the places usually cited to justify that other: e. g. Romans 8:3 ; ch. Hebrews 6:17 ; Plato, Rep. v. p. 455 ( ἔλεγες τὸν μὲν εὐφυῆ πρός τι εἶναι , τὸν δὲ ἀφυῆ , ἐν ᾧ ὁ μὲν ῥᾳδίως τι μανθάνοι , ὁ δὲ χαλεπῶς ). And in places where there is no need even to strain the expression so far as this, it is far better to retain its literal rendering, ‘  in the thing in which ,’ ‘  wherein .’ See Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 211: Fritzsche on Romans 8:3 , who though he protests against  quoniam in this place, seems too lenient to it in other passages.
	But the difficulty by no means ends with taking ‘  wherein ’ for ἐν ᾧ . The first clause or protasis is open to several logical arrangements and consequent renderings. 1. ἐν ᾦ γὰρ πειρασθεὶς αὐτὸς πέπονθεν , δύναται τοῖς ( ἐν αὐτῷ ) πειρ . βοηθ ., “  for He is able to help those who are tried by the same temptations in which His own sufferings consisted :” 2. ἐν ᾧ γὰρ πέπονθεν αὐτὸς πειρασθεὶς δυν . &c. as before, “  for having been Himself tempted in that which He suffered ,” &c.: 3. with the same arrangement of the Greek words, “  for in that which He suffered when He himself was tempted, He is able to succour those who are tempted (  in the same ):” 4. resolving the participial construction, “  for in that in which He himself was tempted and hath suffered He is able ,” &c.
	Of these I much prefer (2); because, α . it keeps together the prominent members of the logical comparison, πειρασθείς and πειραζομένους , giving ἐν ᾧ πέπονθεν as a qualification of πειρασθείς , and thus explaining wherein His temptation consisted. Nor, β . is it at all open to Lünemann’s objection, that it limits the power of Christ to help, to those things merely in which He himself has suffered and been tempted: stating as it does generally the fact πειρασθείς , and then specifying in what, viz. ἐν ᾧ πέπονθεν . It also, γ . corresponds exactly in construction with the similar sentence ch. Hebrews 5:8 , ἔμαθεν ἀφ ʼ ὧν ἔπαθεν τὴν ὑπακοήν , in supplying an object after πέπονθεν . And, δ . it seems more natural that an object should be required after the perfect, than that it should be used absolutely. After ‘He hath suffered,’ we enquire, ‘What?’ after ‘He suffered,’ ‘When?’
	Of recent Commentators, Bleek takes nearly as above, after Chr. F. Schmid; and so Delitzsch in loc. (only maintaining that ἐν ᾧ is ἐν τούτῳ ὅτι , “in that He hath suffered,” not ἐν τούτῳ ᾧ , “in that which He hath suffered:” so Hofmann also): Ebrard prefers (4): Luther, Casaubon, Valcknaer, Fritzsche, al., take (3): (1) is mentioned by Bleek, but I am not aware that it has met with any fautor. It may be necessary to guard readers against the citation, in Dr. Bloomfield’s note, of Ebrard as if he rendered ἐν ᾧ “forasmuch as” or “in that.” His rendering is, “Quibus in rebus tentatus ipse (est et) passus est, iis tentatos potest adjuvare.”
	On the sense, see Calvin’s note above. Christ’s whole sufferings were a πειρασμός in the sense here intended: see ch. Hebrews 4:15 ; James 1:2 .
	The  δύναται βοηθῆσαι here is not to be understood of the power to which the Lord has been exalted through death and suffering to be a Prince and a Saviour, which is not here in question: but of the power of sympathy which He has acquired by personal experience of our sufferings. As God, He knows what is in us: but as man, He feels it also. And by this, wonderful as it may seem, He has acquired a fresh power, that of sympathy with us, and, in consequence, of helping us. See my sermon on this text, in Quebec Chapel Sermons, vol. iii. p. 84. And this is the general view of expositors, both ancient and modern. Chrys. says, ὃ δὲ λέγει τοῦτό ἐστι · δι ʼ αὐτῆς τῆς πείρας ὧν ἐπάθομεν ἦλθε · νῦν οὐκ ἀγνοεῖ τὰ πάθη τὰ ἡμέτερα · οὐ γὰρ ὡς θεὸς μόνον οἶδεν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ὡς ἄνθρωπος ἔγνω διὰ τῆς πείρας ἧς ἐπειράσθη · ἔπαθε πολλά , οἶδε συμπάσχειν . And the Schol. in ms. 113, cited in Bleek, τουτέστι , προθυμότερον ὀρέξει χεῖρα τοῖς πειραζομένοις (so far Œc. also) συγκαταβάσεως δὲ ὁ λόγος πρὸς τὸ νηπιῶδες τῶν ἀκουόντων ).
	CHAP. Heb 3:1 to Hebrews 4:16 .] THE SON OF GOD GREATER ALSO THAN MOSES: AND INFERENCES THEREFROM. The Writer has arrived through the reasonings of ch. Hebrews 1:2 , at the mention of the High Priesthood of Jesus. He might at once have passed thence to the superiority of His High Priesthood to that of the imperfect priests on earth. But one point yet remains, without which the gospel would not have its entire comparison with the law. The law was given by angels in the hand of a mediator. Moses was that mediator. Moses was above all others the Prophet by whom God had spoken to the Fathers in times past. Christ therefore must be compared with Moses, and shewn to be greater than he. This being done, he returns again to his central idea, the High Priesthood of Christ (ch. Heb 4:14 ); and from thenceforward treats of and unfolds it. Ebrard gives the detailed connexion well: “The angel of the covenant came in the name of God before the people of Israel; Moses in the name of Israel before God: the High Priest came in the name of God before Israel (with the name יהוה on his forehead), and in the name of Israel (with the names of the twelve tribes on his breast) before God (Exodus 28:9-29 ; Exo 28:36-43 ). Now the N. T. Messiah is above the angels, according to ch. Hebrews 1:2 ; α . because in Himself as Son of God He is higher than they, and β . because in Him all humanity is exalted above the angels to lordship in the οἰκουμένη μέλλουσα , and that by this means, because the Messiah is not only מלאך , but also ἀρχιερεύς , not only messenger of God to men, but also the propitiatory sacerdotal representative of men before God. Now exactly parallel with this runs our second part. The fundamental thesis, ch. Hebrews 3:3 ,  πλείονος γὰρ οὗτος δόξης παρὰ Μωυσῆν ἠξίωται  , is plainly analogous in form with the fundamental thesis of the first part, Hebrews 1:4 ,  τοσούτῳ κρείττων γενόμενος τῶν ἀγγέλων  . The N. T. Messiah is above Moses, because He, α . of Himself, as  Son of the house ( Heb 3:6 ), is above him who was only the  servant of the house (cf. with Hebrews 3:5 ,  θεράπων  , Hebrews 1:14 ,  λειτουργικὰ πνεύματα ), and, β . because the work, of bringing Israel into rest, which was not finished by Moses, is now finished by Him (Hebrews 4:1 ff.). And this work Christ has finished, by being not, as Moses, a mere leader and lawgiver, but at the same time a propitiatory representative, an  ἀρχιερεύς (ch. Hebrews 5:11 ff.). So far does the parallelism of the two portions reach even into details, that as the two divisions of the former part are separated by a hortatory passage, so are those of this part also: “I. The Son and the angels, II. The Son and Moses α . The Son of God of Himself higher than the λειτουργικὰ πνεύματα of God, Hebrews 1:5-14 . α . The Son of the house of Israel higher than the θεράπων of the house, Hebrews 3:1-6 . (Hortatory passage, Hebrews 2:1-4 .) (Hortatory passage, Hebrews 3:7-19 .) β . In Him manhood is exalted above the angels, Hebrews 2:5-16 . β . In Him Israel has entered into rest, Hebrews 4:1-13 .  For He was also High Priest, Hebrews 2:17-18 . Thus He is also our High Priest, Hebrews 4:14-16 .” Comm. pp. 123 f. Ebrard has perhaps not enough noticed the prevalence of the hortatory mood not only in the interposed passage, Hebrews 3:7-19 , but all through the section: cf. Hebrews 4:1 ; Hebrews 4:11 ; Hebrews 4:14 ; Hebrews 4:16 .