 1 .]  On this account (viz. because Christ, the mediator of the New Covenant, is far above all the angels, who were the mediators of the former Covenant)  it behoves us ( ταύτην τὴν διαφορὰν ἐπισταμένους , Thdrt.:  δεῖ , of moral necessity arising from the previous premises: so Matthew 18:33 ; Mat 25:27 ; 2Ti 2:6 al. There is no stress on  ἡμᾶς according to the reading of the text)  to give heed (  προσέχειν usually in the classics is transitive, with τὸν νοῦν following: so e. g. Aristoph. Nub. 566, ὦ σοφώτατοι θεαταί , δεῦρο τὸν νοῦν προσέχετε , and Plut. 113, 151, al. In Demosth. both usages are found: e. g. p. 21. 26, εἴ τις ὑμῖν προσέξει τὸν νοῦν : p. 132. 9, προσέχουσιν ἅπαντες , οὐχ οἷς εἴπομέν ποτε ἢ νῦν ἂν εἴποιμεν , ἀλλ ʼ οἷς ποιοῦμεν . And later, intrans. usage prevailed: see reff.)  more abundantly (some as Grot. (“  eo magis par est ”), Kuin., al. would join περισσοτέρως with δεῖ : but if so intended, it would certainly have been before that verb. We must not understand after the comparative,  τοῦ νόμου , “than we did to the law,” as Chrys., al.; or the aim of the Writer to be, to shew the superiority of the gospel over the law, as Thdrt.: but the adverb intimates how much our attention ought to be increased and intensified by our apprehension of the dignity of Him whose record the gospel is, and who is its Mediator)  to the things heard (  by us ) (  ἀκουσθεῖσιν is better taken neuter than masc., “the persons whom we have heard.” Bleek remarks, after Böhme, the difference between the tone of exhortation here and in St. Paul, e. g. Galatians 1:6 ff.: but perhaps the remark is hardly just to the Pauline hypothesis: for difference of circumstances should be taken into consideration. Even the same person would not exhort in the same tone, converts to whom he stood in such different relations as St. Paul did to the Galatians and the Jewish converts. A similar criticism will apply to Bleek’s second remark, that the Writer here classes himself absolutely with his readers who had heard the gospel from others. There may have been reasons for his descending to the level of those whom he was addressing. But see below on Hebrews 2:3 , and on the authorship, the Prolegomena),  lest haply (the  ποτε is not to be pressed as meaning ‘at any time:’ it simply generalizes and renders indefinite the μή , ‘ne forte,’  dass nicht etwa )  we be diverted ( παραρυῶμεν is the 2nd aor. subj. passive ( ἐρύην ) from παραρέω , not the pres. subj. active from παραρυέω , which latter verb is not in use. The orthography with one ρ only is characteristic of the Alexandrine Greek: which usually wrote double consonants single. (See Sturz. de Dial. Maced.) The verb signifies to  flow by : so Xen. Cyr. iv. 5. 2, πιεῖν ἀπὸ τοῦ παραῤῥέοντος ποταμοῦ : ref. Isa. ὡς ἰτέα ἐπὶ παραῤῥέον ὕδωρ . Bleek gives an example from Artemidorus viii. 27, where dreams of running water are interpreted to signify change and instability, διὰ τὸ μὴ μένειν τὸ ὕδωρ ἀλλὰ παραῤῥεῖν . Aristotle, de Part. Animal. iii. 3, uses this same passive form to indicate that which we familiarly call food  going the wrong way in course of swallowing: ἐὰν γάρ τι παρεισρυῇ ξηρὸν ἢ ὑγρὸν εἰς τὴν ἀρτηρίαν , πνιγμοὺς καὶ πόνους κ . βηχὰς ἰσχυροὺς ἐμποιεῖ · συμβαίνει γὰρ φανερῶς τὰ λεχθέντα πᾶσιν οἷς ἂν  παραῤῥυῇ τι τῆς τροφῆς : see also numerous instances of the same or a similar meaning, from Galen, in Wetst. Plut. Amator, p. 754 A, says of fear lest a ring should fall off, ὡς μὴ παραῤῥυῇ δεδιώς . Elsner quotes similar Latin usages, among which notice Cicero pro Balbo, c. i., “Oratio quæ non  prætervecta aures vestras, sed in animis omnium penitus insederit.” The meaning of the  verb παραῤῥεῖν seems then to be clear to flow past, or away, or aside, to fall off, deflect from a course. But it is to one  part of that verb that our attention is here directed, the 2 aor. passive: and it may be noticed that whereas in the above examples that which flows away or flows aside is said παραῤῥεῖν , that which is carried away or aside by floating on it, or which is caused to fall off or away, is said παραῤῥυῆναι : cf. also υἱέ , μὴ παραρυῇς in ref. Prov. And so must the word be taken here. We, going onward in time, living our lives in one or another direction, are exhorted προσέχειν τοῖς ἀκουσθεῖσι , ‘to adhere to the things we have heard’ (see above), and that, μή ποτε παραρυῶμεν , ‘  that we do not at any time float past them ,’ be not carried away beside them, led astray from the course on which they would take us. Two mistakes respecting the word are to be avoided: 1. that of Bos, Valcknaer, al., and the E. V., “ne quando præterfluere ea sinamus:” “  lest at any time we should let them slip .” From what has been above said of the tense and voice, it will be clear that such cannot be the meaning. 2. Still worse is that of those who, misled by the vulgate “  pereffluamus ,” have thought of a comparison with a sieve, or leaking vessel. So Est. (preferring however the other, the “  ne defluamus ” of Aug [16] ), Calv. (“Attenta mens similis est vasi bene obstructo: vaga autem et ignava, perforato”), Owen, al.: and I find it reproduced in Tait’s commentary on the Hebrews: “  lest.… we should run out as leaking vessels .” The meaning is as untenable, as the simile (after προσέχειν ) is irrelevant. And, as Kuin. and Bleek remark, the passage of Terence cited in justification, Eun. i. 2. 25, “Plenus rimarum sum, hac atque illac perfluo,” has reference not to forgetfulness, but to indiscreet loquacity. The Greek expositors, whose authority in matters of Greek verbal usage is considerable, all explain it as above: so Chrys., τουτεστι , μὴ ἀπολώμεθα , μὴ ἐκπέσωμεν . καὶ δείκνυσιν ἐνταῦθα τὸ χαλεπὸν τῆς ἐκπτώσεως , ὅτι δύσκολον τὸ παραῤῥυὲν πάλιν ἐπανελθεῖν , καθότι ἐκ ῥᾳθυμίας τοῦτο συνέβη . ἔλαβε δὲ τὴν λέξιν ἀπὸ τῶν παροιμιῶν · “ υἱὲ ” γάρ , φησί , “ μὴ παραῤῥυῇς :” Thdrt., μή τινα ὄλισθον ὑπομείνωμεν : Œc., τουτέστιν , ἐκπέσωμεν τοῦ καθήκοντος καὶ τῆς ἐπὶ σωτηρίαν ὁδοῦ : Hesych., ἐξολισθαμεν : Suidas, παραπέσωμεν . So also all the more accurate of the moderns) (  from them ) (such is the most natural object to supply after παρά : turned aside from and floated away from the course on which the προσέχειν to them would have carried us).
	 [16]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430