 6 .]  But (“  δέ introduces a contrast to a preceding negative sentence frequently in our Epistle: cf. ch. Hebrews 4:13 ; Hebrews 4:15 ; Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 10:27 ; Hebrews 12:13 . It makes a more sharply marked contrast than ἀλλά , as our  aber or  vielmehr as compared with  sondern .” Bleek. Cf. Thuc. i. 125, ἐνιαυτὸς μὲν οὐ διετρίβη , ἔλασσον δέ : ib. 5, οὐκ ἔχοντός πω αἰσχύνην τούτου τοῦ ἔργου , φέροντος δέ τι καὶ δόξης μᾶλλον : id. iv. 86, οὐκ ἐπὶ κακῷ , ἐπ ʼ ἐλευθερώσει δὲ τῶν Ἑλλήνων παρελήλυθα : Herod. ix. 8, οὔκω ἀποτετείχιστο , ἐργάζοντο δέ : and see many other examples in Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 171.  δέ then here introduces the positive in contradistinction to the negative sentence preceding. An ellipsis follows it, to be supplied in the thought, ‘it is far otherwise, for’.…)  one somewhere (no inference can be drawn from this indefinite manner of citation, either that the Writer was quoting from memory, as Koppe, Schulz, al., or that he did not know who was the author of the Psalm, as Grot. Rather may we say, that it shews he was writing for readers familiar with the Scriptures, and from whom it might well be expected that they would recognize the citation without further specification. He certainly is not quoting from memory, seeing that the words agree exactly with the LXX: and Psalms 8:0 both in the Heb. and LXX has a superscription indicating that it was written by David. Chrys. says, τοῦτο δὲ αὐτὸ οἶμαι τὸ κρύπτειν κ . μὴ τιθέναι τὸν εἰρηκότα τὴν μαρτυρίαν ἀλλ ʼ ὡς περιφερομένην κ . κατάδηλον οὖσαν εἰσάγειν , δεικνύοντός ἐστιν αὐτοὺς σφόδρα ἐμπείρους εἶναι τῶν γραφῶν . And Thl., οὐ λέγει τὸ ὄνομα τοῦ εἰπόντος ἅτε πρὸς ἐπιστήμονας τῶν γραφῶν διαλεγόμενος . Bleek quotes numerous instances of the same formula citandi from Philo, as applied both to Scripture writers and profane authors. Thus De Ebrietate, § 14, vol. i. p. 365 end, εἶπε γάρ πού τις , viz. Abraham, in Genesis 20:12 ; De Opif. Mund. § 5, p. 5, ὅπερ καὶ τῶν ἀρχαίων εἶπέ τις , viz. Plato: al. And our Writer has again, ch. Hebrews 4:4 , εἴρηκε γάρ που περὶ τῆς ἑβδόμης οὕτως , viz. Genesis 2:2 . In all such cases the indefiniteness is designed and rhetorical. We can hardly infer, with Bleek and De Wette, that the Writer meant to express his feeling that the O. T. books had no human authors, but God Himself: for in this case, as Lünemann remarks, the personal τις would hardly have been used, but a passive construction adopted instead)  testified (the word  διαμαρτυρέω has in Attic law the technical sense of appearing as a witness previously to the admission of a cause into court, for the plaintiff or defendant, to substantiate or oppugn its admissibility: so Harpocration, πρὸ τοῦ εἰσαχθῆναι τὴν δίκην εἰς τὸ δικαστήριον , ἐξῆν τῷ βουλομένῳ διαμαρτυρῆσαι ὡς εἰσαγώγιμός ἐστιν ἡ δίκη , ἢ οὐκ εἰσαγώγιμος . Hence the deponent middle,  διαμαρτύρομαι , is  to call in , or  invoke witnesses to the justice of one’s cause or truth of one’s assertion. And thus it acquires its less proper senses of  conjuring, earnestly beseeching , on the one hand: and  affirming, positively asserting , either absolutely, as here, or with an accusative of reference, on the other. Both these two are found in the N. T. See reff.: the former occurs chiefly in the pastoral Epistles, the latter in reff. Acts, 1 Thess., Jer.),  saying (this seems the proper place for a few remarks on the sense of the citation which follows, and on the connexion of thought in the rest of the chapter. The general import of the  eighth Psalm may be described as being, to praise Jehovah for His glory and majesty, and His merciful dealing with and exaltation of mankind. All exegesis which loses sight of this general import, and attempts to force the Psalm into a direct and exclusive prophecy of the personal Messiah, goes to conceal its true prophetic sense, and to obscure the force and beauty of its reference to Him. This has been done by Bleek and others, who have made ‘the Son of Man’ a direct title here of Christ. It is MAN who in the Psalm is spoken of, in the common and most general sense: the care taken by God of  him , the lordship given to  him , the subjection of God’s works to  him . This high dignity he lost, but this high dignity he has regained, and possesses potentially in all its fulness and glory, restored and for ever secured to him. How? and by whom? By one of his own race, the MAN Christ Jesus. Whatever high and glorious things can be said of man, belong  de proprio jure to Him only,  propriâ personâ to Him only, but derivatively to us His brethren and members. And this is the great key to the interpretation of all such sayings as these: whatever belongs to man by the constitution of his nature, belongs κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν to that MAN, who is the constituted HEAD of man’s nature, the second Adam, who has more than recovered all that the first Adam lost. To those who clearly apprehend and firmly hold this fundamental doctrine of Christianity, the interpretation of ancient prophecy, and the N. T. application of O. T. sayings to Christ, become a far simpler matter than they ever can be to others. And so here, it is to MAN, not to angels, that the ‘world to come’ is subjected. This is the argument: and, as far as the end of Hebrews 2:8 , it is carried on with reference to  man , properly so called. There is  here as yet no personal reference to our Lord, who is first introduced, and that in his lower personal human Name, at Hebrews 2:9 . This has been missed, and thus confusion introduced into the argument, by the majority of Commentators. To hold that our Lord is from the first intended by ἄνθρωπος and υἱὸς ἀνθρώπου here, is to disturb altogether the logical sequence, which runs thus: ‘It is  not to angels that He has subjected the latter dispensation, but to  man . Still, we do not see man in possession of this sovereignty. No; but we do see Jesus, whose humiliation fulfilled the conditions of manhood, crowned with glory and honour, and thus constituted the Head of our race, so that His death and sufferings were our deliverance and our perfecting. And for this to be so, the Sanctifier and the sanctified must be all of one race.’ And the rest of the chapter is spent in laying forth with inimitable beauty and tenderness the necessity and effect of Jesus being thus made like us. The whole process of this second chapter stands without parallel for tender persuasiveness amidst the strictest logical coherence. And yet both of these are concealed and spoiled, unless we take these words of the Psalm, and the argument founded on them, of man generally, and then, and not till then, of Jesus, as man like ourselves. And so Clem.-alex. (Strom. iv. 3, pp. 566 f. P), Chrys., Thl., Thdrt. ( τὸ δὲ “ τί ἐστιν ἄνθρωπος ” εἴρηται μὲν περὶ τῆς κοινῆς φύσεως , ἁρμόττει δὲ τῇ ἐξ ἡμῶν ἀπαρχῇ , ὡς οἰκειουμένῃ τὰ πάσης τῆς φύσεως . See also on the Psalm): so Pellicanus, Calvin, Piscator, Schlichting, Grot., Jansen., Bengel, and almost all the moderns, including Delitzsch. The principal upholders of the other view are Beza (in part), Calov., Seb.-Schmidt, and the Lutheran Commentators, and recently Bleek),  What is man (some, e. g. Kuinoel, have understood this to mean, “How great, how noble, is man; who even amongst the immensity of all these heavenly works of God, yet is remembered and visited of Him!” but against this are the words here used in the Heb.: אֱנוֹשׁ in the first member of the parallel, and בֶּן־אָדָם in the second, both betokening man on his lower side, of weakness and inferiority. There can be little doubt that the ordinary view is right not ‘  quantus est homo ,’ but ‘  quantulus est homo .’ This agrees far better also with the wonder expressed at God’s thinking of and visiting him, below),  that thou art mindful of him (i. e. objectively, as shewn by Thy care of him),  or (in the Heb. י ;  ἤ is here doubtless substituted for it by the LXX, to indicate that the second member of the parallelism does not point to another subject additional to the first. Bleek is hardly right, when he says, that the ἤ has  here a meaning somewhat modified from καί , as bringing out more definitely ‘the Son of Man,’ the Messiah, who follows. For (see above), the thought of Him is as yet in the background, nay, carefully  kept back; and the reference as yet to man generally)  the son of man (proceeding on the same view as that given above, it would be irrelevant here to enter on an enquiry as to the application of this title to our Lord, by others and by Himself, inasmuch as it is not here appropriated to Him, but used of any and every son of Adam. It is true, our thoughts at once recur to Him on reading the words but, if we are following the train of thought, only as their ulterior, not as their immediate reference),  that Thou visitest (reff.: the common word by which the LXX express the Heb. פָּקַד , and almost always in a good sense (see exceptions, Jeremiah 5:9 ; Jer 5:29 al., in Trommius). The good sense is never departed from in the N. T. It is often found in the classics: e. g. in Ajax’s celebrated speech, Soph. Aj. 854, ὦ θάνατε θάνατε , νῦν μ ʼ ἐπίσκεψαι μολών : Eur. Heracl. 869, ὦ Ζεῦ , χρόνῳ μὲν τἄμ ʼ ἐπεσκέψω κακά . It is very commonly used of a physician or other visiting the sick; so Xen. Cyr. v. 4. 10, ὡς ἐπισκέψαιτο τὸν Γαδάταν πῶς ἔχοι ἐκ τοῦ τραύματος : Mem. iii. 11. 10. See Palm and Rost’s Lex.)  him?