 10 .]  For (the connexion with the foregoing, see above. The  γάρ renders a reason why the result just introduced by the ὅπως should have been one which the χάρις θεοῦ contemplated)  it became (as matter not only of decorum, but of sequence from the data, ‘  was suitable to ,’ ‘decebat:’ not as matter of absolute necessity, which was not the question here. “The expression here glances at those who found in a suffering and crucified Messiah something unsuitable to the Godhead; and expresses not merely a negative, that it was not unsuitable, not unworthy of God, but at the same time the positive, that it was altogether correspondent to and worthy of His Being and His Wisdom and His Love, to take this course: that it is so shaped, that he who knows the being and attributes of God, might have expected it. And thus it is indirectly implied, that it was also the most suitable, and that any other way would have been less correspondent to the being and purpose of God. In this sense we have πρέπει τῷ θεῷ and similar formulæ often in Philo: e. g. Leg. Allegor. i. 15, vol. i. p. 53, τί οὖν λεκτέον ; ὅτι πρέπει τῷ θεῷ φυτεύειν κ . οἰκοδομεῖν ἐν ψυχῇ τὰς ἀρετάς : De Incorrupt. Mundi, § 13, vol. ii. p. 500, ἐμπρεπὲς δὲ θεῷ τὰ ἄμορφα μορφοῦν κ . τοῖς αἰσχίστοις περιτιθέναι θαυμαστὰ κάλλη . And so elsewhere also ἁρμόττει τ . θεῷ , πρεπῶδές ἐστιν , cf. Carpzov here.” Bleek; who has some excellent remarks on the lingering of the offence of the cross among these Jewish Christians, who, although their ideas of the glory and kingly triumph of the Messiah had been in a measure satisfied by the resurrection and exaltation of Christ, and their hopes awakened by the promise of future glory at His second coming, yet, in the procrastination of this great event, felt their souls languishing, and the old stumbling-block of Christ’s sufferings recurring to their minds. To set forth then the way of suffering and the cross as one worthy of God’s high purpose, would be a natural course for the argument of the Writer to take)  Him, for whom (cf. εἰς αὐτόν in reff.)  are all things (not only, “all those things which contribute to man’s salvation,” as Grot., al., but ‘the sum total of things,’ ‘the universe,’ as in the parallel passages. All created things are for God (see below), for His purpose and for His glory)  and by whom (by whose will, and fiat, and agency, cf. ἐξ οὗ in ref. Rom., which perhaps would have been the expression here, had not the Writer preferred using the διὰ in its two senses: see below)  are all things (WHO  is intended? From the sequel of the sentence there can be no doubt that it is God the Father. For the subject of this clause is there said τελειῶσαι Christ: and this could be predicated of none but the Father Himself. That these expressions are found frequently used of the Son, need be no objection: whatever is thus said of Him as the End, and the Worker, in creation, may  à fortiori be said of the Father who sent Him and of whose will He is the expression. As to the reason of this periphrasis here, Calvin well says: “Poterat uno verbo Deum appellare; sed admonere voluit pro optimo id habendum, quod statuit ipse cujus et voluntas et gloria rectus est omnium finis.” And not only this: in introducing the πρέπον of Christ’s sufferings by such a description of God, he reminds his readers that those sufferings also were  δι  ʼ   αὐτόν contributing to His end and His glory and  δι  ʼ   αὐτοῦ , brought about and carried through by His agency and superintendence. The words are referred to Christ by Theodoret (reading ἔπρεπε γὰρ αὐτόν ), Primasius, al., taking τελειῶσαι neuter: Cramer refers this clause to Christ, and πολλ . υἱ . εἰς δόξ . ἀγ . to the Father: Chr. Fr. Schmid refers αὐτῷ to the Father, and δι ʼ ὅν &c. to Christ: Paulus refers αὐτῷ δι ʼ ὃν τὰ π . to the Father, and then begins the reference to Christ with δι ʼ οὗ τ . π . None of these require a serious answer),  bringing (a grave question arises: does this clause, πολ . υἱ . εἰς δ . ἀγ ., belong to the subject of the preceding, αὐτῷ , δι ʼ ὃν τ . π . κ . δι ʼ οὗ τ . π ., or to the object of the following, τὸν ἀρχηγὸν τ . σωτ . αὐτῶν ? The latter is held by the Commentators mentioned above, who refer the former clause to Christ, and by Erasm. (paraphr.), Estius, Justiniani, Schöttg., Bengel, Pyle, and several others; recently also by Ebrard. It is argued that as τὸν δὲ βραχύ τι παρ ʼ ἀγγέλους ἠγαττωμένον , above, Hebrews 2:9 , was in apposition with Ἰησοῦν following, so is πολλοὺς υἱοὺς εἰς σωτηρίαν ἀγαγόντα with τὸν ἀρχηγὸν κ . τ . λ . here. At first sight, it forms an objection to this view, that the art. is expressed with ἠλαττωμένον , and not with ἀγαγόντα . And this objection is urged by Bleek. But as Lünemann has pointed out, it is not a valid one. Had the art. been expressed, then τὸν πολλ . υἱ . εἰς δ . ἀγαγόντα and τὸν ἀρχηγὸν τῆς σωτ . αὐτῶν would be co-ordinate clauses in apposition, the latter being slightly emphasized. Whereas with the art. omitted, the former clause is subordinate to the latter ‘the Captain of their salvation, while bringing many sons to glory.’ The arrangement would indeed be exceedingly harsh, but not grammatically inadmissible. There are, however, serious objections to it. It would be contrary to all Scripture analogy, to represent us as  sons , in relation to Christ. Nay, in the very next verses, the argument goes on to substantiate the community of our nature with Him by the fact of our being His  brethren . And besides, on this hypothesis the sentence would contain little more than a tautology: πολλ . υἱ . εἰς δόξ . ἀγ ., and τὸν ἀρχηγὸν τ . σωτηρίας αὐτῶν , being in fact mere assertions of the same thing. So that there can hardly be a doubt that the true application of the clause is to God the Father, the subject of the preceding. And so Chrys., Thl., Œc., Erasm. (annot.), Luth., Calv., Schlichting, Grot., Limb., and many others, and recently Bleek, Lünemann, and Delitzsch. The accusative  ἀγαγόντα , after αὐτῷ , will not surprise any Greek scholar: cf. Herod. i. 37, τὰ κάλλιστα … ἡμῖν ἦν , ἔς τε πολέμους κ . ἐς ἄγρας φοιτέοντας εὐδοκιμέειν : vi. 109, ἐν σοὶ … ἔστι ἢ καταδουλῶσαι Ἀθήνας , ἢ ἐλευθέρας ποιήσαντα μνημόσυνα λιπέσθαι … Thuc. ii. 39, περιγίγνεται ἡμῖν τοῖς τε μέλλουσιν ἀλγεινοῖς μὴ προκάμπτειν , καὶ ἐς αὐτὰ ἐλθοῦσαι μὴ ἀτολμοτέρους τῶν ἀεὶ μοχθούτων φαίνεσθαι . See many other examples in Matthiæ, § 536, obs. The most frequent in the N. T. are found in St. Luke, whose style approximates the closest to that of this Epistle: e. g. Luke 1:74 ; Acts ( Act 11:12 v. r.) Acts 15:22 ; Acts 25:27 . The aor. part.  ἀγαγόντα is by many taken as an absolute past: so D-lat., “  multis filiis in gloriam adductis :” the vulg., “  qui multos filios in gloriam adduxerat ,” and similarly Luther, Estius, al., and recently Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 39, referring the expression chiefly, or entirely, to the O. T. saints. These however can hardly be meant; for they cannot be said in any adequate sense to have been led to glory, or to have had Christ for the ἀρχηγός of their salvation. And surely it would be most unnatural to refer the part. to those saints only who had entered into glory since the completion of Christ’s work, but before this Epistle was written. Bleek maintains that the aor. part., with an infinitive, may have sometimes a future sense, and would render, “intending to bring,” &c.,  da er viele Sohne zur Herrlichkeit fuhren wollte ; and he cites for this Bernhardy, p. 383 f.: who however only notices the use of the aor. with verbs of waiting, hoping, expecting, and says that in such cases it has  eine entschiedene Richtung zum Futurum . The fact seems to be that it has in all such cases reference to the  completion of the action (being a  futurus exactus ): τὸ κατθανεῖν is to  have died , Anglicè, idiomatically,  to die , but the act of death is regarded in both phrases as completed. And similar is the use of the aor. here. In Christ’s being τετελειωμένος , the bringing many sons to glory is  completed . Had it been ἄγοντα , we must have rendered, as indeed the E. V. has erroneously rendered now, “  in bringing :” so that the Father’s τελειῶσαι of Christ was  only a step in the process of leading many sons to glory. But now it is  the whole process . We cannot give in idiomatic English this delicate shade of meaning correctly: the nearest representation of it would perhaps be, ‘it became Him.…, bringing, as He did, many sons to glory, to’ &c. Various other renderings are “adducere decreverat,” so Grot., al., and Kuinoel: that it signifies only the manner, without any temporal reference; so, after a long discussion, Tholuck (last edn.): that it is simply present; so Beza, “Ipsa sententia ostendit actum præsentem, non præteritum.” But we need not have recourse to any elaborate and refined interpretations, where the simple force of the tense will serve)  many (see reff. Not identical with πάντας , but as there, an indefinite expression, indicating great number, but no more. “  πολλούς ,” says Delitzsch, “not in contrast to  all , but in contrast to  few , and in relation to  One ”)  sons (probably in the closer sense; not merely sons by creation, but sons by adoption. This seems necessitated by the next verse)  to glory (the expression is not common in this meaning in our Epistle: and is perhaps chosen on account of δόξῃ in Hebrews 2:9 . It is, that supreme bliss and majesty which rightly belongs to God only of which His divine Son is (ch. Heb 1:3 ) the ἀπαύγασμα , and of which believers in Christ are here in their degree partakers, and shall be fully so hereafter. It is the crowning positive result of the negative σωτηρία ),  to make perfect ( τελειοῦσθαι is used often in our Epistle (reff.), and in various references. It is said of the Redeemer Himself, here, and in ch. Hebrews 5:9 ; Hebrews 7:28 , of His people, who τελειοῦνται through Him, Hebrews 9:9 ; Hebrews 11:14 ; Hebrews 11:40 ; Hebrews 12:23 ; and indeed Hebrews 12:2 ; with a general reference, Hebrews 7:11 ; Hebrews 7:19 ; see also τέλειος , ch. Hebrews 5:14 ; Hebrews 9:11 , and τελειότης , ch. Hebrews 6:1 . From all this it is evident, that some meaning must be looked for wide enough to include all these senses of the word itself and its cognates. And such a sense is found in the ordinary rendering of the word, to ‘  accomplish ,’ or ‘  make complete ,’ or ‘  perfect .’ This accomplishment, completion, or perfecting of Christ was, the bringing Him to that glory which was His proposed and destined end: so Thl., τελείωσιν ἐνταῦθα νοεῖ τὴν δόξαν ἣν ἐδοξάσθη . Estius, “Consummaret, i. e. ad consummatam gloriam perduceret:” and it answers to the δόξῃ καὶ τιμῇ ἐστεφανωμένον of Hebrews 2:9 ; and to the δοξασθῆναι of St. John: and fits exactly the requirements of the other passages in our Epistle where our Lord is spoken of. Nor is such meaning at all misplaced in those passages where  we are spoken of: seeing that it is a relative term, and our τελειωθῆναι is the being brought, each one of us, to the full height of our measure of perfection, in union with and participation of Christ’s glory. Some Commentators, from the LXX usage of τελειοῦν τὰς χεῖρας for מִלֵּא אֶת־יַד , in Exodus 29:9 ; Exodus 29:33 ; Leviticus 8:33 ; Leviticus 16:32 ( Lev 21:10 Grabe on the authority of Codd. Ambros.-marg., Coisl.): Numbers 3:3 , spoken of the consecration of a priest, and of τελείωσις for מִלֻּאִים in reference to the same, and especially for the offering offered on the occasion, in Exodus 29:22 ff.: Leviticus 7:27 ; Leviticus 8:21 ff., Leviticus 8:33 ( ἕως ἡμέρα πληρωθῇ , ἡμέρα τελειώσεως ὑμῶν · ἑπτὰ γὰρ ἡμέρας τελειώσει τὰς χεῖρας ὑμῶν ), have imagined that the meaning here and elsewhere in our Epistle is ‘to  consecrate :’ and understand the word of the setting apart or consecration of Christ to the high-priestly office. So Calvin (the first, as Bleek thinks, who propounded the view), Beza (in his earlier edd.), a-Lapide, Le Clerc, Schöttg., Peirce, Whitby, al. But Bleek replies well, that such a meaning will not suit the other passages in our Epistle, e. g. ch. Hebrews 7:11 ; Hebrews 7:19 ; and that in the LXX itself τελειοῦν τινα is never simply used for consecrating any one (but see Leviticus 21:10 , [18] [19] Ald. &c.). He also notices the idea of Michaelis, al., that the word in this sense came from the Greek mysteries, and pronounces it to be without proof. Certainly, no such meaning is noticed in the best Lexicons. The word occurs in the sense of ‘ad scopum perducere’ in Herod. iii. 86, ἐπιγενόμενα δὲ ταῦτα τῷ Δαρείῳ ἐτελέωσέ μιν , ὥσπερ ἐκ συνθέτου τευ γενόμενα )  the Leader [  Author ] (  ἀρχηγός is illustrated very copiously by Bleek. In its literal sense it is often found in the LXX (see Trommius). Then we have the sense of the  progenitor of a race : Τεῦκρος μὲν ὁ τοῦ γένους ἡμῶν ἀρχηγός , Isocr., Nicocl.: see other examples in Bleek. Then that of one who  precedes others by his example , they following him. So Herodian vii. 1. 23, ἀρχηγὸς τῆς ἀποστάσεως : 1Ma 10:47 , ὅτι αὐτὸς ἐγένετο αὐτοῖς ἀρχηγὸς λόγων εἰρηνικῶν : Polyb. ii. 40. 2, ἀρχηγὸν … τῆς ὅλης ἐπιβολῆς . So ch. Hebrews 12:2 , τὸν τῆς πίστεως ἀρχηγὸν κ . τελειωτήν , [where the idea of  Author and  Completer is so closely allied to that in our verse, that the word  Author should have been kept here also.] Hence comes easily the idea of  origination ; and so it frequently occurs in Greek writers, especially later ones, of the person from whom any thing, whether good or bad, first proceeds, in which others have a share: and sometimes so that it very nearly = αἴτιος . So Xen. Hell. iii. 3. 5, τὸν ἀρχηγὸν τοῦ πράγματος ; Isocr. Panegyr. 16, ἀρχηγὸς ἀγαθῶν ; and more examples in Bleek. Hence the usage here, and in Acts 3:15 , where Christ is called ὁ ἀρχηγὸς τῆς ζωῆς , is easily explained: on Him our salvation depends; He was its originator: as Chrys., τουτέστι τὸν αἴτιον τῆς σωτηρίας · ὁρᾷς ὅσον τὸ μέσον · καὶ οὗτος υἱός , καὶ ἡμεῖς υἱοί · ἀλλ ʼ ὁ μὲν σώζει , ἡμεῖς δὲ σωζόμεθα . εἶδες πῶς ἡμᾶς καὶ συνάγει καὶ διΐστησι · πολλούς φησιν υἱοὺς εἰς δὸξαν ἀγαγόντα · ἐνταῦθα συνήγαγε · τὸν ἀρχηγὸν τῆς σωτηρίας αὐτῶν · καὶ πάλιν διέστησε . Principally from Bleek’s note)  of their salvation, through sufferings (i. e. His sufferings were the appointed access to and the appointed elements of, His glory: see more particularly below, on ch. Hebrews 5:8-9 . Chrys., al., give a beautiful general application: δεικνὺς ὅτι ὁ παθὼν ὑπέρ τινος , οὐκ ἐκεῖνον ὠφελεῖ μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ αὐτὸς λαμπρότερος γίνεται καὶ τελειότερος ).
	 [18] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [19] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).