 2 .]  For (introduces an argument ( Heb 2:2-4 )  a minori ad majus . The law was introduced by the mere subordinate messengers of God, but was enforced with strict precision: how much more shall they be punished who reject that Gospel, which was brought in by the Son of God Himself, and continues to be confirmed to us by God’s present power)  if the word which was spoken by means of angels (i. e. the law of Moses: not as mentioned by way of alternative in Chrys., Œc., Thl., and adopted by Calv., al.,  all commands in the O. T. delivered by angels (excluding the law: or as Chrys., including it). For this would more naturally be οἱ .… λόγοι : and besides, in similar exhortations in our Epistle, the law and the gospel are so prominently set against one another, that there can be little doubt the same is the case here: see ch. Hebrews 3:1 ff., Hebrews 3:7 ff.; Hebrews 4:2 ; Hebrews 4:11 ; Hebrews 10:28-29 ; Hebrews 12:18-25 . This will become even plainer still, when we enter on the consideration of  δι  ʼ   ἀγγέλων λαληθείς . These words seem to point especially at the law, which was διαταγεὶς δι ʼ ἀγγέλων , Galatians 3:19 , where see note: cf. also Acts 7:53 , and Deuteronomy 33:2 , κύριος ἐκ Σινὰ ἥκει καὶ .… κατέσπευσεν ἐξ ὄρους Φαρὰν σὺν μυριάσι Καδής · ἐκ δεξιῶν αὐτοῦ ἄγγελοι μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ : on which see Ebrard’s note: and Psalms 68:17 , E. V. The co-operation of angels in the giving of the law at Sinai was not merely a Rabbinical notion, but is implied in both the Old and New Testaments. There can consequently be little doubt that the Writer, in mentioning ὁ δι ʼ ἀγγέλων λαληθεὶς λόγος , had reference to the law of Moses, and not to the scattered messages which were, at different times in O. T. history, delivered by angels. And so Origen, in Matt. tom. xvii. cap. 2, vol. iii. p. 767: Thdrt., δείκνυσιν ὅσον ὑπέρκειται τῶν νομικῶν διατάξεων ἡ τῶν εὐαγγελικῶν διδασκαλία . τῇ γὰρ θέσει τοῦ νόμου ἄγγελοι διηκόνουν κ . τ . λ . It has been sometimes supposed that the  ἄγγελοι spoken of here are not angels, but merely human messengers. Chrys. says, τινὲς μὲν οὖν τὸν Μωυσέα φασὶν αἰνίττεσθαι · ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ ἔχει λόγον · ἀγγέλους γὰρ ενταῦθα πολλούς φησι . And Olearius, Analys Ep. ad Hebr. § v., says, “Per ἀγγέλους hic maxime intelligi existimem προφήτας , doctores et Sacerdotes: qui sunt ἄγγελοι θεοῦ , et ita passim vocantur.” But this latter point wants proof. The difficulty as to whether God Himself, or an angel, is to be understood as giving the law in Exodus, raised by Cameron (see also Schlichting in Bleek), hardly seems legitimately to arise here, where the words are  δι  ʼ ἀγγέλων λαληθείς , and the angels may manifestly be considered as the inferior agents, acting and speaking in God’s name. Bl. remarks that the Writer would hardly have used this argument of depreciating contrast, had he regarded the law as given either to Moses or to the people by the direct ministry of the Son of God Himself)  was made (“  factus est ” vulg., “  constitutus est ” Grot., “  became ,” on being thus spoken by angels. The aorists point, hardly, as Lünemann, to the legal dispensation being past and gone by, but, since the same tenses are presently used of the gospel, to two historic periods compared with one another, the giving of the law, and the promulgation of the gospel)  binding (see reff.:  firm, ratified : “  stedfast ,” as E. V.: as applied to commands,  imperative , not to be violated with impunity. Bleek quotes from Philo, Vit. Mos. ii. § 3, vol. ii. p. 136, τὰ δὲ τούτου μόνου ( Μωυσέως νόμιμα )  βέβαια , ἀσάλευτα , ἀκράδαντα , καθάπερ σφραγῖσι φύσεως αὐτῆς σεσημασμένα ),  and every transgression (overstepping of its ordinances, or more properly, walking alongside of, and therefore not in, the path which it marked out. See above on παραρυῶμεν , an allusion to which the prepositions in παραβ . and παρακ . seem to contain. Cf. Rom 4:15 and note there. The substantive does not occur in this sense in the classics, and only once in the Canonical LXX, ref. Ps.: but the verb is found in Plato, Crito, p. 52 D, 53 A, and Legg. 714 D, and Demosth. p. 624. 1, παραβὰς τοὺς ὅρκους κ . τὰς συνθήκας : and in the LXX passim)  and disobedience (“ παρακούειν imports etymologically, ‘  to hear beside :’ and hence the Greeks use it principally in two senses: 1. to hear any thing by stealth, to overhear, as Aristoph. Ran. 749, καὶ παρακούων δεσποτῶν ὅταν ( ἅττ ʼ ἄν , Bekker) λαλῶσι : and, 2. to hear any thing inaccurately, to mis-hear, as Plato, Theætet. p. 195 A, παρορῶσί τε κ . παρακούουσι κ . παρανοοῦσι πλεῖστα . From this last meaning of the word comes the Hellenistic usage, in which it betokens a more intentional mis-hearing, a reluctance to hear (  ein nicht-horen-wollen ), and hence includes also the idea of non-compliance, of disobedience. So Isaiah 65:12 , ἐκάλεσα ὑμᾶς κ . οὐχ ὑπηκούσατε , ἐλάλησα κ . παρηκούσατε : Esther 3:8 , τῶν δὲ νόμων τοῦ βασιλέως παρακούουσι . See also Matthew 18:17 , ἐὰν δὲ περακούσῃ αὐτῶν , εἰπὲ τῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ . ἐὰν δὲ καὶ τῆς ἐκκλησίας παρακούσῃ κ . τ . λ . So also in Josephus. Accordingly, παρακοή in the N. T., where it occurs thrice only (see reff.: never in the LXX), is used of practical mis-hearing, not listening to, a teaching, or law, or person. The relation of these two words to one another in point of sense seems accordingly to be, that  παράβασις denotes the outward act of transgression of the law, the practical withstanding of its precepts, while  παρακοή occurs when we fulfil not, and have no mind to fulfil, the precepts of the law: the former expresses, viewed  ab externo , more something positive, the latter something negative, while at the same time it regards more the disposition of the man. Still, the distinction, as regards the moral region here treated of, is not of such a kind that each παράβασις may not also be treated as a παρακοή , and each παρακοή include or induce a παράβασις .” Bleek)  received just (  ἔνδικος , found twice only (reff.) in N. T. and not at all in LXX, is a good classic word: see lexx.)  recompense of reward (used only in this Epistle, and every where else in a good sense: cf. also μισθαποδότης , ch. Hebrews 11:6 . The classical writers use μισθοδοσία (Thuc. viii.83: Xen. Anab. ii. 5. 22: Polyb. i. 69. 3: Diod. Sic. xvi. 73) and μισθοδότης (Xen. Anab. i. 3. 9: Plato, Rep. v. p. 463 B: Æschin. p. 85. 10: Theocr. xiv. 59). In the passage of Diod. Sic., μισθαποδοσία is a various reading.
	To what does the Writer refer? To the single instances of punishment which overtook the offenders against the law, or as Grot. suggests, to the general punishment of the whole people’s unbelief, as in ch. Hebrews 3:8 ; Hebrews 4:11 ; Hebrews 12:21 , and see 1 Corinthians 10:6 ff.? I should be disposed to think, to the former: such penalties as are denounced in Deuteronomy 32:35 , and indeed attached to very many of the Mosaic enactments: as Owen: “The law was so established, that the transgression of it, so as to disannul the terms and conditions of it, had by divine constitution the punishment of death temporal, or excision, appointed unto it”),