 14 .] The connexion and line of argument is this: in Heb 2:5 it was shewn, that  not to angels, but to MAN, is the new order of things subjected: in Hebrews 2:6-8 , that this domination was predicated of man in the O. T.: in Hebrews 2:9 , that the only case of its fulfilment has been that of Jesus, who has been crowned with glory and honour on account of His suffering death. Then, Hebrews 2:10-11 a, it is shewn that the becoming way for the Redeemer to this crown of glory, the purpose of winning which was to bring many sons of God to it, was, being perfected through sufferings, seeing that He must share with those whom He is to sanctify, in dependence on a common Father. Then Hebrews 2:11 b, Hebrews 2:12 , Hebrews 2:13 have furnished illustrations confirmatory of this, from His own sayings in the Scripture. And  now we are come to the proof, that He who was thus to be the Leader of the salvation of these many sons, by trusting like them, and suffering like them, must Himself BECOME MAN like them, in order for that His death to have any efficacy towards his purpose.  Since then (by  ἐπεί , an inference is drawn from the words immediately preceding: by  οὖν , the thought is cast back to the argument of which the citations had been an interruption: q. d. and by this very expression in our last citation,  τὰ παιδία , we may substantiate that which our argument is seeking to prove)  the children (before mentioned: “Articulus est ἀναφορικός : illi pueri, de quibus versu præcedente dictum.” Gerhard, in Bleek: not τά generic, and τὰ παιδία , little children, as Valcknaer and Heinrichs, and recently Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 40, which introduces a thought quite irrelevant: cf. Hofmann:  Er von der Menschwerdung Christi sagen wollte, dass er in derselben ein kind wie andere kinder, mit Fleisch und Blut, geworden ist )  are partakers of (lit. “  have been constituted partakers of ,’ in the order established in nature, and enduring still. The  κοινωνία is not with their  elders , as Valcknaer (see above), but with  one another . This absolute use of  κοινωνεῖν is not often found: we have it in Xen. Mem. ii. 6. 22, 23, δύνανται πεινῶντες καὶ διψῶντες ἀλύπως σίτου κ. ποτοῦ κοινωνεῖν.… δύνανται δὲ καὶ χρημάτων οὐ μόνον τοῦ πλεονεκτεῖν ἀπεχόμενοι νομίμως κοινωνεῖν .… and Œcon. vi. 3, ἡδύ γ ʼ οὖν ἐστιν.… ὥσπερ καὶ χρημάτων κοινωνήσαντας ἀναμφιλόγως διελθεῖν, οὕτω καὶ λόγους κοινωνοῦντας περὶ ὧν ἂν διαλεγώμεθα συνομολογοῦντας διεξιέναι . The verb itself is generally found in the N. T. with a dative of the thing shared: in the classics, as here, with a genitive. See many examples in Bleek)  blood and flesh (this order, instead of the more usual one, σαρκ . κ . αἵμ ., occurs in ref. Eph., and Polyænus, Stratagem. iii. 11. 1: ἐπειδὰν μέλλωμεν μάχεσθαι , μήτοι νομίζωμεν ὡς πολεμίοις συμβάλλοντες , ἀλλὰ ἀνθρώποις αἷμα κ . σάρκα ἔχουσι , κ . τῆς αὐτῆς φύσεως ἡμῖν κεκοινωνηκόσιν . Bleek however suspects that this expression itself, belonging as it does to the time of the Antonines, may be derived from biblical or Jewish usage. It is found frequently in the later Jewish writers. “It betokens,” says Bleek, “the whole sensuous corporeal nature of man, which he has in common with the brutes, and whereby he is the object of sensuous perception and corporeal impressions: whereby also he is subjected to the laws of the infirmity, decay, and transitoriness of material things, in contrast to purely spiritual and incorporeal beings.” Delitzsch remarks on the order, that it differs from σὰρξ κ . αἷμα in setting forth first the inner and more important element, the blood, as the more immediate and principal vehicle of the soul, … before the more visible and palpable element, the flesh: doubtless with reference to the shedding of Blood, with a view to which the Saviour entered into community with our corporeal life),  He himself also in like manner (  similarly : the original idea of  παραπλήσιος being that of lying close together all along: not exactly =  ἴσος , for the two are not unfrequently found in conjunction, as ὁρῶντες στρατὸν ἴσον καὶ (where we should say, ‘  or ’) παραπλήσιον τῷ προτέρῳ ἐπεληλυθότα : Thuc. vii. 42, nor = ὁμοῖος : cf. Herod. iii. 101, χρῶμα φορέουσι ὁμοῖον πάντες καὶ παραπλήσιον Αἰθίοψι : cf. also Thuc. i. 143, τὰ μὲν Πελοποννησίων ἔμοιγε τοιαῦτα καὶ παραπλήσια δοκεῖ εἶναι : but expressing a general similitude, a likeness in the main; and so not to be pressed here, to extend to  entire identity , nor on the other hand to imply, of purpose,  partial diversity ; but to be taken in its wide and open sense that He Himself also partook in the main, in like manner with us, of our nature. The ancient expositors dwell justly on the word as against the Docetæ, who held that our Lord’s was only an apparent body. So Chrys., and more explicitly Thl.: οὐκ εἶπε γὰρ μόνον ὅτι μετέσχε σαρκὸς κ . αἵματος ὥσπερ τὰ παιδία , τουτέστιν οἱ λοιποὶ ἄνθρωποι · καίτοι εἰ καὶ τοῦτο εἶπεν , ἱκανὸν ἦν παραστῆσαι ὅτι ἀληθῶς ἐσαρκώθη · ἀλλὰ καὶ τὸ  παραπλησίως προσέθηκε , ἵνα τὴν ἀπαράλλακτον πρὸς ἡμᾶς καὶ ἀληθινὴν σάρκωσιν παραστήσῃ . And Thdrt.: σφόδρα δὲ ἀναγκαίως καὶ τὸ  παραπλησίως τέθεικεν , ἵνα τὴν τῆς φαντασίας διελέγξῃ συκοφαντίαν )  participated in (the E. V., “  took part ,” is good, but it should be followed by ‘  in ,’ not “  of ,” which makes it ambiguous. Bleek remarks that κοινωνέω and  μετέχω are almost convertible; and instances Lycurg. cont. Leocrat. p. 187 (154, Bekker), ἐξ ἴσου τῶν κινδύνων μετασχόντες , οὐχ ὁμοίως τῆς τύχης ἐκοινώνησαν : see also Xen. Anab. vii. 6. 28. So that minute distinction of meaning is hardly to be sought for. Notice the aorist, referring to the one act of the Incarnation)  the same things (viz.  blood and flesh : not τῶν παιδίων , nor as Bengel, “the same things which happen to his brethren, not even death excepted”),  that by means of his death ( διὰ τοῦ θανάτου αὐτοῦ ὃν ἀνεδέξατο , ὡς σαρκὸς κ . αἵματος δηλαδὴ μετασχών : Thl. “Paradoxon: Jesus mortem passus vicit: diabolus mortem vibrans succubuit:” Bengel. “Death itself, as Death, is that which Jesus used as the instrument of annihilating the prince of Death:” Hofm. Schriftb. ii. 1. 274, whose further remarks there see, and Delitzsch’s comments on them, Hebr.-brf. p. 85. The latter quotes from Primasius, “Arma quæ fuerunt illi quondam fortia adversum mundum, hoc est, mors, per eam Christus illum percussit, sicut David, abstracto gladio Goliæ, in eo caput illius amputavit, in quo quondam victor ille solebat fieri.” “Dominus itaque noster” so Gregory the Great on Job 40:19 , “ad humani generis redemtionem veniens velut quemdam de se in necem diaboli hamum fecit … Ibi quippe inerat humanitas, quæ ad se devoratorem adduceret, ibi divinitas quæ perforaret: ibi aperta infirmitas, quæ provocaret, ibi occulta virtus, quæ raptoris famem transfigeret.” Cf. the remarkable reading in D: and the old Latin epigram, “Mors mortis morti mortem nisi morte tulisset, Æternæ vitæ januaclausa foret”)  He might destroy (bring to nought: see reff. The word is found, besides here, once in Luke ( Heb 13:7 ), and twenty-five times in Paul)  him that hath the power of death (the pres. part. is better taken of the office, q. d. ‘the holder of the power,’ than of past time, “  him that had the power ,” as E. V. The phrase  τὸ κράτος ἔχειν has been abundantly illustrated by Bleek. Among his examples followed by a genitive, as here, are Herod. iii. 142, τῆς δὲ Σάμου Μαιάνδριος .… εἶχε τὸ κράτος : Aristoph. Thesmoph. 871, δωμάτων ἔχει κράτος : Jos. Antt. i. 19. 1, οἷς ἐγὼ τὸ ταύτης κράτος τῆς γῆς δίδωμι . It is evident that the gen.  τοῦ θανάτου must be similarly taken here, and not, as Schlichting, al., as = “  mortiferum ” merely. The reason why this clause comes first, and not τὸν διάβολον , is probably, as Chrys. suggests, to exhibit the paradox mentioned above: τὸ θαυμαστὸν δείκνυσιν , ὅτι δι ʼ οὗ ἐκράτησεν ὁ διάβολος , διὰ τούτου ἡττήθη , καὶ ὅπερ ἰσχυρὸν ἦν αὐτῷ ὅπλον κατὰ τῆς οἰκουμένης , ὁ θάνατος , τούτῳ αὐτὸν ἔπληξεν ὁ χριστός . Thl. mentions some who thought that by τὸ κράτος τοῦ θανάτου was meant  sin : and Œc. gives this interpretation. But it is hardly worthy of serious consideration),  that is, the devil (cf. Wis 2:24 , φθόνῳ δὲ διαβόλου θάνατος εἰσῆλθεν εἰς τὸν κόσμον : and see Revelation 12:9 ; Revelation 20:2 . So in the Rabbinical writings, Samael, the chief of the evil spirits, was called the angel of death: and it is said (Debarim Rabb. fin.), “Samael causa fuit mortis toti mundo:” and (Sohar, fol. xxvii. 3), “Filii serpentis antiqui qui occidit Adamum et omnes ab eo descendentes.” τὸν διάβολον ὃς ἐκράτει τοῦ θανάτου · πῶς ; διὰ τῆς ἁμαρτίας . ἐπειδὴ γὰρ ἁμαρτάνειν ἐποίει τοὺς ἀνθρώπους ἐκ τῆς πρώτης ἐκείνης παρακοῆς , αὐτὸς ἦν ὁ τὸν θάνατον δημιουργήσας , ὥσπερ τινὶ στρατιώτῃ αὐτῷ κ . ὅπλῳ ἰσχυρῷ χρώμενος κατὰ τῆς ἀνθρωπίνης φύσεως . Thl.: cf. Romans 5:12 ; John 8:44 . Ebrard would make τοῦ θανάτου the subjective genitive, “the power, which death has over us,” and ἔχοντα to signify “  wielding .” But this seems far-fetched and unnecessary.
	The Death of Christ brought to nought the agency of the devil in death, because, that Death of His being not the penalty of His own sin, but the atoning sacrifice for the sin of the world, all those who by faith are united to Him can now look on death no longer as the penalty of sin, but only as the passage for them, as it was for Him, to a new and glorious life of triumph and blessedness. But for those who are not united to Him, death, retaining its character of a punishment for sin, retains also therewith all its manifold terrors. Delitzsch, in treating of ‘Him that has the power of death,’ quotes an important remark of Gregory the Great, on Job 1:11 , “Satanæ voluntas semper iniqua est, sed nunquam potestas injusta, quia a semet ipso voluntatem habet, sed a Domino potestatem”),  and might deliver (the construction is somewhat doubtful. The more obvious way of taking the sentence would be, to join  δουλείας with  ἀπαλλάξῃ ‘  might free from bondage ,’ ἀπαλλάττω usually governing a genitive of the thing from which the deliverance is effected: see many examples in Bleek, from which the following may be selected as containing δουλείας : Jos. Antt. xiii. 13. 3, τῆς ὑπὸ τοῖς ἐχθροῖς αὐτοὺς δουλείας … ἀπαλλάττειν : Isocr. Plataic. 9, δουλείας ἀπηλλάγησαν . And this would also suit the ordinary construction of ἔνοχος with a dative: see reff., and examples from the classics in Bleek. Still, it is hardly natural to suppose that  δουλείας , standing so far as it would thus from its verb, in a position of so little emphasis, and without any designating article or pronoun, can belong to ἀπαλλάξῃ . We are thus brought to the ordinary construction, viz. the taking  ἀπαλλάξῃ absolute, and joining  δουλείας with  ἔνοχοι . And this latter is by no means an unusual construction, as the reff. will shew. Bleek divides the imports of a gen. after ἔνοχος into three: 1.  the punishment incurred : so reff. Matt., Mark, Demosth. p. 1229. 11, ἔνοχοι δεσμοῦ γεγόνασι : 2.  the guilt incurred : so 2Ma 13:6 , τὸν ἱεροσυλίας ἔνοχον ὄντα : Lysias in Alcib. p. 140, ὡς οὐδεὶς ἔνοχος ἔσται λειποταξίου οὐδὲ δειλίας : &c.: 3.  the person or thing wherein the guilt is incurred : so reff. 1 Cor., James, Isa. So that the construction with the genitive seems to embrace a wider range of meaning than that with the dative, and to put ἔνοχος rather in the place of a substantive, ‘  the subject of ,’ to be interpreted by the context: whereas with a dative it rather stands in a participial connexion, = ἐνεχόμενος (cf. Galatians 5:1 , μὴ πάλιν ζυγῷ δουλείας ἐνέχεσθε ): ‘entangled in,’ ‘  liable to .’ Thus we shall here have  ἔνοχοι δουλείας = those in a state of slavery; as (Bl.) in Sir. prol., οἱ φιλομαθεῖς καὶ τούτων ἔνοχοι γενόμενοι , those who are occupied with such things)  those (  τούτους is not, as Bengel, Kuinoel, al., to be referred to the preceding, whether υἱούς , Hebrews 2:10 , or παιδία , Hebrews 2:14 , but to the  ὅσοι , which it designates and brings out. See below)  who all (this use of  ὅσος after a demonstrative pronoun is not very common. It does not in such a case imply the existence of  others who do not fulfil the thing predicated, but rather takes, so to speak, the full measure of those indicated, being almost = ‘  who, every one of them ’.… Thus we have it after πᾶς in Æsch. Prom. 975 f., ἁπλῷ λόγῳ τοὺς πάντας ἐχθαίρω θεούς , ὅσοι παθόντες εὖ κακοῦσί μ ʼ ἐκδίκως . In fact it answers, as a relative of quantity, to ὅστις as a relative of quality. These persons whom Christ died to free, were all subject to this bondage induced by the fear of death. And these in fact were, all mankind; to whom the potential benefit of Christ’s death extends)  by fear of death (so Philo, Quod Omnis Probus Liber, § 17, vol. ii. p. 462, οἰόμεθα τοὺς μὲν ἀσκητὰς τῆς ἐν σώμασιν εὐτονίας ἐπιβεβηκέναι φόβῳ θανάτου : see also ref. Sir. The obj. gen. after φόβος , as θεοῦ , ἀνδρῶν , &c. is common enough)  were through all their lifetime (= διὰ πάσης τῆς ζωῆς . This substantival use of τὸ ζῆν is found in Æschin. dial. iii. 4, ὥσπερ εἰς ἕτερον ζῆν ἐπιθανούμενος : Ignat. ad Trall. 9, οὗ χωρὶς τὸ ἀληθινὸν ζῆν οὐκ ἔχομεν : id. ad Ephesians 3:0 , καὶ γὰρ Ἰησοῦς χριστὸς τὸ ἀδιάκριτον ἡμῶν ζῆν . Bl. But the use with an adjective seems to want other examples. We have something approaching to it in the “Scire tuum nihil est, nisi te scire hoc sciat alter” of Persius)  subjects of (on the construction of ἔνοχος with a genitive, see above. It is here not merely ‘subject to,’ so that they might or might not be involved in it, but their actual implication is inferred)  bondage (Wetst. &c. quote Philo, Quod Omnis Probus Liber, § 3, vol. ii. p. 448, ἐπαινεῖται παρά τισιν ὁ τρίμετρον ἐκεῖνο ποιήσας τίς ἐστι δοῦλος ; τοῦ θανεῖν ἄφροντις ὤν ; (the line is from Euripides, and is cited also by Plutarch. Bl.) ὡς μάλα συνιδὼν τὸ ἀκόλουθον · ὑπέλαβε γάρ , ὅτι οὐδὲν οὕτω δουλοῦσθαι πέφυκε διάνοιαν , ὡς τὸ ἐπὶ θανάτῳ δέος ἕνεκα τοῦ πρὸς τὸ ζῆν ἱμέρου . See also many passages to the same effect in Raphel and Wetstein. Calvin’s note is well worth transcribing: “Hic locus optime exprimit quam misera sit eorum vita qui mortem horrent; ut necesse est omnibus sentiri horribilem, qui eam extra Christum considerant: nam tum in ea nihil apparet nisi maledictio. Unde enim mors, nisi ex ira Dei adversus peccatum? Hinc ista servitus per totam vitam, hoc est, perpetua anxietas qua constringuntur infelices animæ. Nam semper ex peccati conscientia Dei judicium observatur. Ab hoc metu nos Christus liberavit, qui maledictionem nostram subeundo sustulit, quod in morte formidabile erat. Tametsi enim nunc quoque morte defungimur: vivendo tamen et moriendo tranquilli sumus et securi, ubi Christum habemus nobis præeuntem. Quod si quis animum pacare non potest mortis contemptu, is sciat parum se adhuc profecisse in Christi fide. Nam ut nimia trepidatio ex ignorantia gratiæ Christi nascitur, ita certum est infidelitatis signum.  Mors hic non separationem modo animæ a corpore significat, sed pœnam quæ ab irato Deo nobis infligitur, ut æternum exitium comprehendat. Ubi enim coram Deo reatus, protinus etiam inferi se ostendunt.”