 16 .] Epexegetic of Hebrews 2:15 , by pointing out a fact well known to us all (see on  δήπου below), that it was to help a race subject to death, that Christ came).  For, as we well know (  δήπου is a word of pure classical usage, see Xen., Plut., al. in Bleek: not found except here in the N. T. nor in the LXX. Its force will be reached by combining that of the two simple particles.  δή , with an assertion, gives decision and confidence:  που universalizes this decision and confidence: implies the success of an universal appeal for the truth of what is said. See Hartung, ii. 285: Klotz, Devar. p. 427 ff., where the various uses are fully gone into. Bengel compares πρόδηλον γάρ , ch. Heb 7:14 ),  it is not angels that He helpeth, but it is the seed of Abraham that He helpeth (I have rendered thus, to preserve the emphasis on the two contrasted words, ἀγγέλων and σπέρματος Ἀβρ .  ἐπιλαμβάνω , to receive in addition, ‘insuper accipere,’ also to take hold of or upon, is found in the N. T. and the LXX, in the middle form ἐπιλαμβάνομαι only; and thus signifies, with the dynamic force of personal agency, to lay hold upon, to seize. It usually, after the analogy of λαμβάνομαι itself, has a gen. case: occasionally, e. g. Acts 9:27 ; Acts 16:19 ; Acts 18:17 , an accusative. When a person is the object, it may be used in a bad sense,  to seize hold of , in order to overpower or lead away, e. g. ἐπειδάν σου ἐπιλαβόμενος ἄγῃ ( ὁ δικαστής ), Plato, Gorg. p. 527 A: Luk 23:26 al.: as (more usually) in a good sense,  to take by the hand , in order to help or lead, e. g. ἐπιλαμβάνεσθαι τῆς χειρός , Xen. Rep. Ath [20] i. 18: Matthew 14:31 ; Mark 8:23 ; Luke 14:4 ; see also Jer 31:32 in our ch. Hebrews 8:9 . From this latter meaning is easily derived that of  helping , adopting for protection: e. g. ref. Sir., ἡ σοφία υἱοὺς ἑαυτῇ ἀνύψωσε κ . ἐπιλαμβάνεται τῶν ζητούντων αὐτήν : the Schol. on Æsch. Per. 742 ( ἀλλ ʼ ὅταν σπεύδῃ τις , αὐτὸς χὡ θεὸς ξυνάπτεται ), ὅταν σπεύδῃ τις εἰς καλὰ ἢ εἰς κακά , ὁ θεὸς αὐτοῦ ἐπιλαμβάνεται . And thus is the word best explained here: as referring back to the ἀπαλλάξαι just spoken of, and exactly answering to the βοηθῆσαι below in Hebrews 2:18 . This help is not by Him rendered to  angels : He is not the Captain of their salvation. And herein there is no contradiction to Colossians 1:20 ; for the reconciliation which Christ has effected even for the things in the heavens, is not delivering them from fear of death, or bringing them through sufferings to glory, whatever mystery it may involve beyond our power of conception.
	 [20] Athanasius, Bp. of Alexandria, 326 373
	 σπέρματος Ἀβραάμ next comes under consideration. And we must here, as ever, render, and understand, according to the simple sense of the words used, regarding the circumstances under which they were used. Accordingly, we must not here understand  mankind , as some have done: nor again with others, can we suppose the  spiritual seed of Abraham to be meant (Galatians 3:7 ; Galatians 3:29 ; Romans 4:11 f., Romans 4:16 ), because, as Bleek well remarks, the present context speaks not of that  into which Christ has  made those redeemed by Him, but of that  out of which He has  helped them.  The seed of Abraham then means,  the Jewish race , among whom Christ was born in the flesh, and whom He did come primarily to help: and the peculiarity of the expression must be explained with Estius, “Gentium vocationem tota hac epistola prudenter dissimulat, sive quod illius mentio Hebræis parum grata esset, sive quod institute suo non necessaria:” and with Grotius, “Hebræis scribens satis habet de iis loqui: de gentibus aliter loquendi locus.”
	I must not omit to mention, that the above manner of interpreting this verse, now generally acquiesced in, was not that of the ancient expositors. By them it was generally supposed that  ἐπιλαμβάνεται referred to our Lord’s taking upon Him of our nature: and they for the most part make it into a past tense, and render as E. V., “  He took not upon him the nature of angels, but He took upon him the seed of Abraham ,” so Chrys. ( οὐκ ἀγγέλων φύσιν ἀνεδέξατο , ἀλλ ʼ ἀνθρώπων ), Thl. ( οὐ τῆς τῶν ἀγγέλων φύσεως ἐδράξατο οὐδὲ ταύτην ἐφύρεσεν ), Thdrt. ( εἰ γὰρ ἀλλέλων ἀνείληφε φύσιν , κρείττων ἂν ἐγεγόνει θανάτου . ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἀνθρώπειον ἦν ὃ ἀνέλαβε κ . τ . λ .), Ambros. (de Fide iii. 11, vol. ii. (iii. Migne) p. 512, al.), Primasins, the Syr. (“Non ex angelis sumsit sed ex semine Abrahami sumsit”): and so also Erasm., Luth., Calv., Beza, Owen, Calov., Wolf, and many others. On this I will give the substance of Bleek’s remarks: “This interpretation has been favoured both by the preceding and following context, and also by the circumstance that in the Greek Church the words λαμβάνειν and ἀναλαμβάνειν are in use as representing the union of the two natures in Christ, the divine being the λαβοῦσα or ἀναλαβοῦσα , and the human the ληφθεῖσα or ἀναληφθεῖσα . But supposing that ἐπιλαμβάνειν might be similarly used, certainly the middle ἐπιλαμβάνεσθαι with a genitive cannot; and even independently of this, the formula ‘to take on him the seed of Abraham, or the angels,’ would be a most unnatural way of expressing ‘to  take the nature of either of these.’ And the ancients themselves seem to have felt, that this formula of itself could not hear such a meaning. They assume accordingly that the Writer represents man and his nature, through sinfulness, alienated and flying from God and the divine nature, and the Son of God pursuing, overtaking, and drawing it into union with Himself. So Chrys., Œc., Thl.; so the Schol. in Matth.: οὐκ εἶπεν ἀνέλαβεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἐπιλαμβάνεται , ἵνα δείξῃ ὅτι φεύγουσαν τὴν φύσιν ἡμῶν κ . μακρυνθεῖσαν ἐδίωξε καὶ φθάσας ἐπελάβετο αὐτῆς κ . περιεπλάκη ἑνώσας ἑαυτῷ κ . στήσας αὐτὴν τῆς ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ φυγῆς : so also Primasins, Erasmus-not., Justiniani, a-Lapide, and Hammond.” It needs little to shew how far-fetched and forced this interpretation of the words is, if it is intended to give the sense of  assuming the nature of man . Nor would the  present of the verb suit this sense: which present some explain as if it represented the  testimony of Scripture , i. e. the prophetic or official present, as ὁ ἐρχόμενος , ‘No where do we find it in Scripture that Christ has taken, or is to take,’ &c. So Erasm., Calvin, Seb. Schmidt, Hammond, Wolf. But such sense altogether would be irrelevant in the context. Seeing that it has been in the preceding period maintained, that Christ was flesh and blood like those whom He is to sanctify, we should not surely have γάρ introducing the same thought again, but this verse must somehow express  why that other happened. Again, had that former thought been here expressed a second time, the following one could not have been joined to it by an ὅθεν : for the sense would be this: He was to take on Him human nature: therefore must He in all things be made like His brethren, = as they take on them human nature. And even were we, with Œc. and Thl., to lay an emphasis on κατὰ πάντα , thus seeing that He was to take human nature on Him at all, He must also  in every thing become like other men, we might admit such a sense, if succeeded by, ‘and therefore must He die,’ or the like: but that which here follows, ἵνα ἐλεήμων γένηται κ . τ . λ ., would be wholly out of place. The first who detected the error of this rendering was Castellio († 1563), who translates the word “  opitulatur ,” which Beza calls “execrunda audacia.” Then the R.-Cath. expositors Ribera and Estius took up the true rendering, which was defended more at length and thoroughly by Camero (whose note see in the Critici Sacri) and Schlichting; and so adopted without further remark by Grotius. The conflict against this latter expositor and the Socinians (who all thus explain the word), induced many other Commentators, especially Lutherans, to hold fast obstinately to the old interpretations: see above. But this pertinacity, from the palpable untenableness of the sense, could not prevail widely nor long. The right view is taken by Witlich, Braun, Akersloot, Limborch, Calmet, Bengel, Peirce, Cramer, Michaelis, Ernesti (who however is wrong in saying it was the interpretation of the Greek Fathers), Storr, and the moderns almost without exception. Of these latter, Schulz has ventured to doubt the correctness of it, and to propose a new view viz. that Death, or the Angel of Death, is the subject of the sentence; “for on angels truly he taketh not hold, but on the seed of Abraham he taketh hold.” And this sense is doubtless both allowable and admissible in the context; but it is most improbable that the subject in this verse should be a different one from that in the foregoing, seeing that the same person, the Son of God, is also the subject, without fresh mention, in Hebrews 2:17 , which is so intimately connected with this).