 3 .]  how shall we (emphatic: including Christians in general, all who have received the message of salvation in the manner specified below)  escape ( φεύγω and its compounds belong to that class of verbs which take the future middle, not using the active form of that tense. See a list of such in Krüger, Gr. Sprachlehre, § 39. 12. We may here either supply an object after the verb, such as ἔνδικον μισθαποδοσίαν , as in ref. Rom., 2Ma 7:35 , οὔπω γὰρ τὴν τοῦ .… θεοῦ κρίσιν ἐκπέφευγας , and ib. 2Ma 6:26 , or take ἐκφ . absolutely, as in the two last reff. and Sir 6:13 , οὐκ ἐκφεύξεται ἐν ἁρπάγμασιν ἁμαρτωλός . The latter seems best, inasmuch as τὴν ἔνδ . μισθ . does not fulfil the perfectly general motive of the hypothesis, and we are hardly justified in inserting any other object, such as τὸ κρῖμα τοῦ θεοῦ in ref. Rom. The  forensic sense of ἐκφεύγειν ,  to be acquitted , founded on that of φεύγειν ,  to be accused , maintained here by Wolf, appears to be merely imaginary, the forensic word being  ἀπο φεύγειν , not  ἐκ φ . So Thom. Mag.: φεύγω , τὸ κατηγοροῦμαι . κ . φυγή , ἡ κατηγορία . ἀποφεύγω δέ , ὅταν νικήσας ἀπολυθῇ τις τῆς κατηγορίας . In the passage of Aristophanes which he quotes to support his view, Vesp. 993, ἐκπέφευγας , ὦ Λάβης , the word, occurring as it does in the midst of the forensic use of ἀποφεύγειν (cf. v. 985, 997), may very well be only in its ordinary meaning, ‘  thou hast escaped ’)  if we have neglected (the anarthrous participial construction implies a logical, i. e. here a hypothetical condition: the aor., that that condition will have been fulfilled at the date to which the fut. ἐκφ . refers)  so great ( καλῶς δὲ καὶ τὸ  τηλικαύτης προσέθηκεν . οὐ γὰρ ἐκ πολεμίων , φησίν , ἡμᾶς διασώσει νῦν , οὐδὲ τὴν γῆν κ . τὰ ἐν τῇ γῇ ἀγαθὰ παρέξει , ἀλλὰ θανάτου κατάλυσις ἔσται , ἀλλὰ διαβόλου ἀπώλεια , ἀλλ ʼ οὐρανῶν βασιλεία , ἀλλὰ ζωὴ αἰώνιος . Chrys.: and Theod.-mops. even more to the point, ἐκεῖνο νομίμων δόσις ἦν μόνον , ἐνταῦθα δὲ κ . χάρις πνεύματος κ . λύσις ἁμαρτημάτων κ . βασιλείας οὐρανῶν ἐπαγγελία κ . ἀθανασίας ὑπόσχεσις · ὅθεν κ . δικαίως  τηλικαύτης εἶπεν .  τηλικαύτης might belong to ἥτις below, as Thol., assuming ἥτις = ὥστε , and referring to Matthiæ, Gr. Gr. § 479, obs. 1. The instances there given of relatives after οὕτως , ὧδε , τηλικοῦτος , τοιοῦτος , amply justify such a construction, e. g. Isocr. Epist. p. 408 D, χρὴ ἐπιθυμεῖν δόξης .…  τηλικαύτης τὸ μέγεθος ,  ἣν μόνος ἂν σὺ τῶν νῦν ὄντων κτήσασθαι δυνηθείης : Xen. An. ii. 5. 12, τίς  οὕτω μαίνεται ,  ὅστις οὔ σοι βούλεται φίλος εἶναι ; But it seems better here, and more befitting the majesty of the thing spoken of, to take τηλικαύτης absolutely, leaving the greatness and exalted nature of the salvation to be filled up, as Bleek says, in the consciousness of the readers. Still of course the  ἥτις introduces, both by the sense and by its own proper meaning (  ut quæ ), an epexegesis of that which was enwrapped in τηλικαύτης )  salvation (  σωτηρία as in ch. Hebrews 1:14 ; no need, as many Commentators, to supply λόγου before it),  the which (= ‘  seeing that it ,’ in a direct construction)  having begun (  ἀρχὴν λαβοῦσα = ἀρξαμένη . The phrase is found in the classics: e. g. Eur. Iph. in Aul. 1111, τίν ʼ ἂν λάβοιμι τῶν ἐμῶν ἀρχὴν κακῶν ; Ælian, Var. H. ii. 28, πόθεν δὲ τὴν ἀρχὴν ἔλαβεν ὅδε ὁ νόμος , ἐρῶ : Polyb. iv. 28. 3, τὰ κατὰ τὴν Ἰταλίαν … τὰς μὲν ἀρχὰς τῶν πολέμων τούτων ἰδίας εἰλήφει : see more instances in Bleek, Raphel, and the same usage of λαβεῖν in Plato, Rep. p. 497 E, λαβέτω τέλος ἡ ἀπόδειξις τούτου φανεροῦ γενομένου : Thuc. i. 91, ὅτι τειχίζεταί τε κ . ἤδη ὕψος λαμβάνει . Cf. Palm and Rost’s Lex. in λαμβάνω )  to be spoken (the construction is a mixed one; the inf. after the substantive would naturally have the art., τοῦ λαλεῖσθαι , but it is put without it as if ἀρξαμένη had preceded)  by means of (He was the instrument in this case, as the angels in the other; but both, law and gospel, came at first hand not from the mediators, but from God. See Ebrard’s mistaken antithesis treated below)  the Lord (  διὰ τ  .   κυρίου is to be joined with the whole ἀρχ . λαβ . λαλ ., not with λαλεῖσθαι alone.  τοῦ κυρίου , as Bl. remarks, has here an especial emphasis setting forth the majesty and sovereignty of Christ: αὐτὸς ὁ τῶν ἀγγέλων δεσπότης πρῶτος τὴν σωτήριον διδασκαλίαν προσήνεγκε , Thdrt. See reff.),  was confirmed (see ref. Mark, where the word is used exactly in the same sense and reference. It seems to be used to correspond to ἐγένετο βέβαιος above, signifying a ratification of the gospel somewhat correspondent to that there predicated of the law: as also  λαλεῖσθαι here answers to λαληθείς there. Thl. explains it, διεπορθμεύθη εἰς ἡμᾶς βεβαίως κ . πιστῶς )  unto us (not = the simple dative, which would be a dat. commodi, but implying the transmission and its direction; see reff.: nor, as Wolf, Wahl, al., to be rendered “  usque ad ,” a meaning of εἰς only to be assumed when defined by some indication of time or space in the context. Nor again must it be confounded with the idiom ἐβεβαιώθη ἐν ὑμῖν , “  among you ,” 1 Corinthians 1:6 . The construction is a pregnant one)  by those who heard (  it? or  Him? In the sense, the difference will be but little: in either case, those pointed at will be as Thdrt. οἱ τῆς ἀποστολικῆς ἀπολαύσαντες χάριτος : the αὐτόπται κ . ὑπηρέται τοῦ λόγου of Luke 1:2 . From the usage, however, of the Writer himself, I prefer understanding ‘it:’ cf. ch. Hebrews 3:16 ; Hebrews 4:2 ; Heb 12:19 )  it (Ebrard (with whom Delitzsch partly agrees) arranges this whole sentence strangely, and I cannot doubt, wrongly, thus: “was confirmed to us by those who heard it, as having been from the beginning spoken by the Lord:” and brings out a contrast between the law, which was given through a mediator, and the gospel, which came direct from the Lord Himself. But thus all the parallel, and with it the true contrast, is destroyed. Both law and gospel, proceeding from God, were λαληθέντα to men: the former by angels, the latter by the Lord. Both were βεβαιωθέντα the former absolutely, as exemplified by the penalties which followed its neglect, the latter relatively to us, as matter of evidence requiring our hearty reception; delivered by eye and ear witnesses, and further witnessed to by God Himself. And in proportion as the Mediator of the new covenant is more worthy than were the mediators of the old covenant, will our punishment be greater if we neglect it. So there can be no doubt that the Writer meant to convey the sense against which Ebrard protests, and that the beginning of the promulgation of the gospel by the Lord, and the handing down of it by those who were its first hearers, are alleged by him as two separate and co-ordinate circumstances. On the evidence furnished by this verse as to the Writer of the Epistle, see Prolegg. § i. parr. 130 ff.),  God also bearing witness to it (nothing can be further from the truth than what Kuinoel, al., maintain, “  συνεπιμαρτυρεῖν pro simplici μαρτυρεῖν positum esse.” In his own rendering of the word, the force of both prepositions is to be traced: “Deo simul confirmante.” μαρτυρεῖν is simply to  bear witness : ἐπιμαρτυρεῖν to  attest , to bear witness to: συνεπιμαρτυρεῖν to  join in, attesting , or bearing witness to. The double compound is not uncommon in the later Greek writers: e. g. Aristot. de Mundo, v. 22, συνεπιμαρτυρεῖ ὁ βίος ἅπας : Polyb. xxvi. 9. 4, παρόντων δὲ τῶν Θεττάλων , κ . συνεπιμαρτυρούντων τοῖς Δαρδανίοις . See examples from Sextus Empir., Galen, Philo, &c., in Bleek. On the sense, Chrys. remarks: πῶς οὖν ἐβεβαιώθη ; τί οὖν εἰ οἱ ἀκούσαντες ἔπλασάν φησιν ; τοῦτο τοίνυν ἀναίρων καὶ δεικνὺς οὐκ ἀνθρωπίνην τὴν χάριν , ἐπήγαγε “ συνεπιμ . τ . θεοῦ ·” οὐκ ἂν γάρ , εἰ ἔπλασαν , ὁ θεὸς αὐτοῖς ἐμαρτύρησε · μαρτυροῦσι μὲν κἀκεῖνοι , μαρτυρεῖ δὲ καὶ ὁ θεός . οὐχ ἁπλῶς ἐπιστεύσαμεν ἐκείνοις , ἀλλὰ διὰ σημείων καὶ τεράτων , ὥστε οὐκ ἐκείνοις πιστεύομεν , ἀλλ ʼ αὐτῷ τῷ θεῷ )  with signs and wonders (Bleek remarks that these words are very commonly joined together, and cites numerous instances from the later classics, the LXX, and the N. T. His remarks are: “As regards the relation of the two expressions to each other in their combination here, as divine confirmations of human testimony, it is this:  σημεῖον is a more general and wider idea than τέρας . Every τέρας , religiously considered, is also a σημεῖον , but not always  vice versa .  τέρας always includes the idea of something marvellous, something extraordinary in itself, betokens something which by its very occurrence raises astonishment, and cannot be explained from the known laws of nature. On the other hand a σημεῖον is each and every thing whereby a person, or a saying and assertion, is witnessed to as true, and made manifest: and thus it  may be something, which, considered in and of itself, would appear an ordinary matter, causing no astonishment, but which gets its character of striking and supernatural from the connexion into which it is brought with something else, e. g. from a heavenly messenger having previously referred to some event which he could not have foreseen by mere natural knowledge. But it may also be a τέρας , properly so called. Still, it is natural to suppose that the biblical writers, using so often as they do the words together, did not on every occasion bear in mind the distinction, but under the former word thought also of events which of themselves would be extraordinary and marvellous appearances”)  and various (this adj. belongs only to δυνάμεσιν , not also, as Bleek, to the following clause, in which the μερισμοῖς of itself includes the idea of variety)  miraculous powers (so  δυνάμεις are used in reff.; and in Acts 2:22 ; 2Co 12:12 ; 2 Thessalonians 2:9 , we find them joined with σημεῖα κ . τέρατα as here; and with σημεῖα only, in Acts 8:13 . See also 1 Corinthians 12:10 ; 1 Corinthians 12:28 f. In some of these places it is taken for the miraculous acts themselves which followed on the exercise of the powers: and so perhaps it may be here: but I prefer the other rendering on account of the near connexion with the following clause, which if we break by joining it to the foregoing, we destroy the grouping in couples, and also violate the proper construction of the σημείοις  τε καὶ τέρασιν )  and distributions (the rare word  μερισμός (see reff.) is in strict analogy with the usage of the verb: e. g. Romans 12:3 , ἑκάστῳ ὡς ὁ θεὸς ἐμέρισεν μέτρον πίστεως : 1 Corinthians 7:17 , ἑκάστῳ ὡς ἐμέρισεν ὁ κύριος … περιπατείτω : 2 Corinthians 10:13 , κατὰ τὸ μέτρον τοῦ κανόνος οὗ ἐμέρισεν ἡμῖν ὁ θεὸς μέτρου . But both, in their simple classical meaning, merely signify  division , as in ch. Hebrews 4:12 , and not distribution, which is a later sense, found in Polyb. xi. 28. 9, Diog. Laert., Herodian, &c. See Palm and Rost’s Lexicon)  of the Holy Spirit (is this a genitive of the object distributed, or of the subject distributing? The latter is held by Camerar., al., and κατὰ τὴν αὐτοῦ θέλησιν also referred to the will of the Holy Spirit. And so St. Paul certainly speaks, 1 Corinthians 12:11 , πάντα δὲ ταῦτα ἐνεργεῖ τὸ ἓν καὶ τὸ αὐτὸ πνεῦμα , διαιροῦν ἰδίᾳ ἑκάστῳ καθὼς βούλεται . But it does not thence follow that such is the sense here: and it seems much more natural to refer the pron.  αὐτοῦ to God, the primary subject of the sentence. Otherwise we should have expected ἐκείνου . Still, it may be said that the reference of this genitive is independent of that of the pronoun αὐτοῦ , and that the clause πνεύματος ἁγίου μερισμοῖς should be considered on its own ground. But thus considered, if it be once granted that αὐτοῦ refers to God, we should have, on the supposition of the subjective genitive, an awkwardly complicated sense, hardly consistent with the assertion of absolute sovereignty so prominently made in the following clause. I take then the genitive with most Commentators, as objective, and the Holy Spirit as that which is distributed according to God’s will, to each man according to his measure and kind. The declaration in John 3:34 , of Him whom God sent, οὐ γὰρ ἐκ μέτρου δίδωσιν τὸ πνεῦμα , speaks of the same  giving , but of its unmeasured fulness, as imparted to our glorious Head, not of its fragmentary distribution to us the imperfect and limited members),  according to His (God’s: see above)  will (  θέλησις is a rarer word (reff.) than θέλημα , both being Alexandrine forms. Pollux says of it, v. 165, βούλησις , ἐπιθυμία , ὄρεξις , ἔρως · ἡ δὲ  θέλησις ἰδιωτικόν . It is best to refer this clause, not to the whole sentence preceding, with Böhme, nor to the two clauses, ποικ . δυν ., κ . πν . ἁγ . μερ ., as Bleek, Lünem., but to the last of these only, agreeably to 1 Corinthians 12:11 , and to the free and sovereign agency implied in μερισμοῖς . See on the whole sense, Act 5:32 )?