 18 22. ] Our Lord not only detects their plot, but answers their question; and in answering it, teaches them each a deep lesson.
	The  νόμισμα κήνσου was a denarius. It was a saying of the Rabbis, quoted by Lightfoot and Wetstein, that ‘wherever any king’s money is current, there that king is lord.’ The Lord’s answer convicts them, by the matter of fact that this money was current among them, of subjection to (Tiberius) Cæsar, and recognition of that subjection:  Pay therefore, He says,  that which is Cæsar’s to Cæsar, and (not perhaps without reference to the Herodians, but with much deeper reference)  that which is God’s, to God. These weighty words, so much misunderstood, bind together, instead of separating, the political and religious duties of the followers of Christ. See Jeremiah 27:4-18 ; Romans 13:1 ; 1 Peter 2:13-14 ; John 19:11 . The second clause comprehends the first, and gives its true foundation: q. d. ‘this obedience to Cæsar is but an application of the general principle of obedience to God, of Whom is all power.’ The latter clause thus reaches infinitely deeper than the former: just as our Lord in Luk 10:41-42 declares a truth reaching far beyond the occasion of the meal.  Man is the coinage , and  bears the image , of God ( Gen 1:27 ): and this image  is not lost by the fall (Genesis 9:6 ; Acts 17:29 ; James 3:9 . See also notes on Luke 15:8-9 ; and compare Tertull. contr. Marc. iv. 38, vol. ii. p. 453, “Quæ erunt Dei? quæ similia sunt denario Cæsaris, imago scilicet et similitudo ejus. Hominem igitur reddi jubet Creatori, in cujus imagine et similitudine et nomine et materia expressus est”). We owe then  ourselves to God: and this solemn duty is implied, of giving ourselves to Him, with all that we have and are. The answer also  gives them the real reason why they were now under subjection to Cæsar : viz.  because they had fallen from their allegiance to God . ‘The question was as if an adulterer were to ask, whether it were lawful for him to pay the penalty of his adultery.’ (Claudius, cited by Stier ii. 388.) They had again and again rejected their theocratic inheritance; they refused it in the wilderness; they would not have God to reign over them, but a king; therefore were they subjected to foreigners (see 2Ch 12:8 ).