 2. ]  οὐκ οἴδατε (reff.) appeals to an axiomatic truth.
	 οἱ ἅγιοι τ  .   κ  .   κριν  . ]  that the saints shall judge the world? i.e. as assessors of Christ, at His coming: so Daniel 7:22 (Theod.), ἦλθεν ὁ παλαιὸς ἡμερῶν , καὶ  τὸ κρίμα ἔδωκεν ἁγίοις ὑψίστου ; see also Matthew 19:28 . So Calv., Beza, Grot., Est., Wolf, Olsh., Billroth, Rückert, Meyer, De Wette. All attempts to elude this plain meaning of the words are futile: whether of Chrys., Theophyl., Theodor-Mops [11] , Theodoret, Erasm., κρινοῦσι δὲ οὐχὶ αὐτοὶ καθήμενοι κ . λόγον ἀπαιτοῦντες , ἀλλὰ κατακρινοῦσι ( Mat 12:41-42 ), Chrys. for this would be no parallel to the case in hand; or of Lightf., Vitringa, Bengel (but only as a  præludium futurorum ), al., ‘  quod Christiani futuri sint magistratus et judices in mundo ,’ Lightf., which does not satisfy 1 Corinthians 6:3 , nor agree with the Apostle’s earnest persuasion (see 2 Corinthians 5:0 . al., and note on 2Th 2:2 ) that the coming of Christ was near at hand: or of Mosheim, Ernesti, Rosenm., ‘  quod Christiani profanos judicare possint ,’ Rosenm., in the sense of ch. 1 Corinthians 2:15-16 , for no such meaning can be conveyed by the  future , which is fixed here by the following κρινοῦμεν .
	 [11] Theodore, Bp. of Mopsuestia, 399 428
	 καί brings out an inconsequence or a contradiction between the members of the sentence, which it is the object of the question to remove: so Xen. Cyr. 4:3. 11, ἀλλ ʼ εἴποι ἄν τις , ὅτι παῖδες ὄντες ἐμάνθανον . καὶ πότερα παῖδές εἰσι φρονιμώτεροι ὥστε μαθεῖν τὰ φραζόμενα κ . δεικνύμενα ἢ ἄνδρες ; see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 147.
	 ἐν ὑμῖν ] Chrys. attempts by this prepos. to defend his view (see above), οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν , ὑφ ʼ ὑμῶν , ἀλλ ʼ  ἐν ὑμῖν (‘exemplo vestro’). But in vain: nor as Grot., al., ἐν ,  by: for κρίνεσθαι ἐν is the expression for  to be judged before , as judges: the judges being the  vehicle of judgment, its conditioning element, as in ref. Acts. So Aristides, Platon. ii. p. 214 (Wetst.), τινὲς ἤδη λέγονται τῶν ἡρώων ἐν θεοῖς δικασταῖς κριθῆναι and Polyb. v. 29. 6, Πτολεμαῖον … κρίνας ἐν τοῖς Μακεδόσιν ἀπέκτεινε . See other examples in Wetst. Hence (Meyer) by this ‘  coram vobis ’ it appears plainly, though it might be otherwise inferred from the context, that the Saints  are to be the judges , sitting in judgment.
	 ἀνάξιοί ἐστε κριτ  .   ἐλαχ  . ]  are ye unworthy of (i.e. to hold or pronounce)  the smallest judgments? κριτήρια cannot be, as usually rendered, ‘  matters to be judged :’ it signifies either (1)  criteria , lit. or metaphor., which sense is irrelevant here: (2)  tribunals, courts of justice : so Glossar. κριτήριον , δικαστήριον , and Polyb. ix. 33. 12, κοινὸν ἐκ πάντων τῶν Ἑλλήνων καθίσας κριτήριον or (3)  judgments held in such courts,  judicia , as Lucian. bis accus. (§ 25, p. 253, ed. Hagan. 1526); Hermes describes Pyrrhon as being not in court, ὅτι οὐδὲν ἡγεῖται κριτήριον ἀληθὲς εἶναι : to which Δίκη replies, τοιγαροῦν ἐρήμην αὐτοῦ καταδικάτωσαν . The last meaning suits both this place and 1 Corinthians 6:4 . So Cicero speaks of ‘in privatis minimarum rerum judiciis.’ Here, they are ἐλάχιστα in comparison with the weighty judgments which shall be held hereafter; = βιωτικά , 1 Corinthians 6:4 .