 1. ] On τολμᾷ ,  Dares …, Bengel remarks, “Grandi verbo notatur læsa majestas Christianorum.”
	 τις , no particular  individual, but  any one : for he proceeds in the plur., 1Co 6:4 ; 1 Corinthians 6:7 .
	 πρᾶγμα ] So ref. and Demosth. κατὰ Στεφ . α . p. 1120, τῷ μὲν υἱεῖ τῷ τούτου πολλῶν πραγμάτων ὄντων οὐ παρέστη πώποτε οὐδ ʼ ἐβοήθησεν ;
	 κρίνεσθαι , reff.,  to go to law . So Eur. Med. 609, ὡς οὐ κρινοῦμαι τῶνδε σοὶ τὰ πλείονα , and Anthol. ii. 30, δυσκώφῳ δύσκωφος ἐκρίνετο , καὶ πολὺ μᾶλλον ἦν ὁ κριτὴς τούτων τῶν δύο κωφότερος . Wetst. on Matthew 5:40 .
	 ἐπί (reff.),  before , as judges.
	 τῶν ἀδίκων ] οὐκ εἶπεν , ἐπὶ τῶν ἀπίστων , ἀλλ ʼ  ἐπὶ τῶν ἀδίκων , λέξιν θείς , ἧς μάλιστα χρείαν εἶχεν εἰς τὴν προκειμένην ὑπόθεσιν , ὥστε ἀποτρέψαι κ . ἀπαγαγεῖν . ἐπειδὴ γὰρ περὶ δίκης αὐτῷ ὁ λόγος ἦν , οἱ δικαζόμενοι δὲ οὐδὲν οὕτως ἐπιζητοῦσιν , ὡς τὸ πολλὴν εἶναι πρόνοιαν τοῦ δικαίου παρὰ τοῖς δικάζουσιν , ἐντεῦθεν αὐτοὺς ἀποτρέπει , μονονουχὶ λέγων Ποῖ φέρῃ καὶ τί ποιεῖς , ἄνθρωπε , τοὐναντίον πάσχων ὧν ἐπιθυμεῖς , καὶ ὑπὲρ τοῦ τῶν δικαίων τυχεῖν ἀδίκοις ἐπιτρέπων ἀνθρώποις ; Chrys. Hom. xvi. p 137.
	The Rabbinical prohibitions against going to law before Gentiles may be seen in Wetst.: e.g. “Statutum est, ad quod omnes Israelitæ obligantur, eum qui litem cum alio habet, non debere eam tractare coram gentilibus.” Tanchuma, xcii. 2.
	 καὶ οὐχὶ ἐπὶ τ  .   ἁγίων ] The Apostle does not mean that the Christians had their  courts of law, but that they should submit their differences to  courts of arbitration among themselves. Such courts of arbitration were common among the Jews. In Jos. Antt. xiv. 10. 17, there is a decree by which the Jews of Sardis are allowed the use of a σύνοδος ἰδία … καὶ τόπος ἴδιος , ἐν ᾧ τά τε πράγματα κ . τὰς πρὸς ἀλλήλους ἀντιλογίας κρίνουσι .
	Theodoret shews, ὡς οὐκ ἐναντία ταῦτα τοῖς πρὸς Ῥωμαίους γραφεῖσιν (Romans 13:1 ff.): οὐ γὰρ ἀντιτείνειν κελεύει τοῖς ἄρχουσιν , ἀλλὰ τοῖς ἠδικημένοις νομοθετεῖ μὴ κεχρῆσθαι τοῖς ἄρχουσι . See Stanley in loc., who thinks the existence of such courts is here implied. But his support of his view from the Ap. Constt. and the Clementines, cir. A.D. 150, would only go to shew that the Apostle’s injunction here had been obeyed, and that those courts were the result.