 4. ]  βιωτικά is emphatically repeated, as being the only sort of κριτήρια which were in question here. Meyer compares Herod, vii. 104, τὰ ἂν ἐκεῖνος ἀνώγῃ · ἀνώγει δὲ τὠϋτὸ ἀεί , and Aristoph. Ran. 287 f.
	 μὲν οὖν , ‘  immo vero ,’ reff. (see below). It corrects a foregoing misapprehension: so Soph. Œd. Col. 31, “  ἦ δεῦρο προσστείχοντα κἀξορμώμενον ;” “ καὶ δὴ μὲν οὖν παρόντα .” Hartung, Partikell. ii. 400. See also Moulton’s Winer, p. 556, note 2.
	 κριτήρια , again, not  matters to be judged , but  judgments : the matters about which, are expressed in βιωτικά .
	The following words may be rendered in two ways: either, ( α ) ‘  Yea, rather (so far from remembering your high prospect, of judging angels, your practice is),  if ye have in hand judgments concerning civil matters, those men who are of no account in the church (viz. the heathen),  those you set up (place on the bench)  as judges ’ (i.e. by bringing your causes before them, you set them up as judges over you). καθίζω occurs in this sense in Plato, Legg. ix. p. 873, ἐὰν δὲ ἄψυχόν τι ψυγῆς ἄνθρωπον στερήσνῃ , … δικαστὴν μὲν αυτῷ καθιζέτω τῶν γειτόνων τὸν ἐγγύτατον ὁ προσήκων γένει and Polyb. ix. 33. 12, cited above on κριτήριον . Thus, making καθίζ . indicative, Valla, Castal., Luther, Calov., Wolf, al., Schrader, Rückert, Olsh., De Wette, Meyer. But ( β ) Syr., Vulg., Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Erasm., Beza, Calvin, Grot., Estius, Bengel, Wetst., al., take καθίζετε as  imperative , and τοὺς ἐξουθεν . ἐν τ . ἐκκλ . as ‘  minimos de piorum plebe .’ So E. V.:  set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church . And to this last interpretation I am inclined to accede, both from the context and from the arrangement of the words. The  context is this: ‘Your office is to judge  angels :’ mere business causes of this world are almost beneath your notice. If such causes arise among you (he continues in a lofty irony) set those to judge them who are of no account among you: do not go out of your own number to others to have them judged: the meanest among you is capable of doing it. Let it be noticed that he is passing to 1 Corinthians 6:7 , where he insists on the impropriety of βιωτικὰ κριτ . between Christians  at all , and is here depreciating them ironically.
	But the  arrangement and  construction of the words are even more strongly in favour of the imperative rendering. For (1) on the other, no account is given of the emphatic position of βιωτικά . (2) the μὲν οὖν is not so naturally rendered (see above) ‘yea rather your course is,’ as ‘yea rather let your practice be:’ it expresses more naturally a subjective correction, in the mind of the speaker, than an objective one: see below, ver.7. (3) if the sentence had referred to their existing practice of going before heathen tribunals, it would have been expressed not βιωτικὰ μὲν οὖν κριτ . ἐὰν ἔχητε , but β . μ . οὖν κρ . ἔχοντες , as in 1 Corinthians 6:1 . (4) οἱ ἐξουθενημένοι ἐν τῇ ἐκκ . are much more naturally  the despised in (within)  the church , than  those who in (the estimation of)  the church are held of no account . Meyer argues against this that it would be in this case τοὺς ἐξουθ . τοὺς ἐν τῇ ἐκκλ ., but surely he can hardly be serious, or I do not understand him rightly. (5) καθίζετε applies much better to the  appointing judges over a matter among themselves, than to  going before judges  already appointed . (6) as to the objection that on this rendering the word ‘rather’ must be inserted, τούτους μᾶλλον καθίζετε , it has no force, for no such supplement is required. The command is absolute, but given to shew them the absurdity of their going to law about βιωτικά at all, rather than  bona fide .