35, 36. If he called them gods unto
	whom the word of God came . . . Say ye of him whom the Father hath
	sanctified and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest—The whole
	force of this reasoning, which has been but in part seized by the
	commentators, lies in what is said of the two parties compared. The
	comparison of Himself with mere men, divinely commissioned, is
	intended to show (as NEANDER
	well expresses it) that the idea of a communication of the Divine
	Majesty to human nature was by no means foreign to the revelations of
	the Old Testament; but there is also a contrast between
	Himself and all merely human representatives of God—the one
	"sanctified by the Father and sent into the world";
	the other, "to whom the word of God (merely) came,"
	which is expressly designed to prevent His being massed up with them
	as only one of many human officials of God. It is never said of
	Christ that "the word of the Lord came to Him"; whereas
	this is the well-known formula by which the divine commission, even
	to the highest of mere men, is expressed, as John the Baptist
	(Luke 3:2). The reason is that
	given by the Baptist himself (see on Luke 3:2- :). The contrast is between those "to whom the word of
	God came"—men of the earth, earthy, who were merely privileged
	to get a divine message to utter (if prophets), or a divine
	office to discharge (if judges)—and "Him whom (not
	being of the earth at all) the Father sanctified (or set
	apart), and sent into the world," an expression never
	used of any merely human messenger of God, and used only of
	Himself.
because, I said, I am the Son
	of God—It is worthy of special notice that our Lord had not
	said, in so many words, that He was the Son of God, on this
	occasion. But He had said what beyond doubt amounted to it—namely,
	that He gave His sheep eternal life, and none could pluck them out of
	His hand; that He had got them from His Father, in whose hands,
	though given to Him, they still remained, and out of whose hand none
	could pluck them; and that they were the indefeasible property of
	both, inasmuch as "He and His Father were one." Our
	Lord considers all this as just saying of Himself, "I am the Son
	of God"—one nature with Him, yet mysteriously of
	Him. The parenthesis (Luke 3:2- :), "and the Scripture cannot be broken," referring
	to the terms used of magistrates in the eighty-second Psalm, has an
	important bearing on the authority of the living oracles. "The
	Scripture, as the expressed will of the unchangeable God, is itself
	unchangeable and indissoluble" [OLSHAUSEN].
	(Compare Matthew 5:17).