 14.  θριαμβεύοντι ]  leading us in triumph , see ref.  Two kinds of persons were led in triumph: the  participators of the victory , and the  victims of the defeat . In Col. the  latter are plainly meant; here, according to many Commentators (Calv., Elsner, Bengel, De Wette, al.), the  former : which however is never elsewhere the reference of the word, but it always implies  triumphare de aliquo . Wetst. quotes this sense, βασιλεῖς ἐθριάμβευσε , Plut. Rom. p. 38 D, and in four other places: and the Scholiast to Hor. Od. i. 37. 31, who relates of Cleopatra, “invidens Privata deduci superbo Non humilis mulier triumpho,” that she refused the terms offered her by Augustus, saying, οὐ θριαμβευθήσομαι . Meyer in consequence understands it in this sense here:  who ever triumphs over us , i.e. ‘who ceases not to exhibit us, His former foes, as overcome by Him:’ and adds in a note, “Remark the emphatic πάντοτε , prefixed, to which the similarly emphatic ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ , at the end, corresponds. God  began His triumph over the ἡμεῖς at their conversion; over Paul, at Damascus, where he made him a servant, from being an enemy. This triumph he ever continues, not ceasing to exhibit before the world these His former foes, by the results of their present service, as overcome by Him. This, in the case before us, was effected by Paul, in that (as Titus brought him word to Macedonia) his Epistle had produced such good results in Corinth.” De W. objects to this as a strange way of expressing thankfulness for deliverance from our anxiety. But  is it so to those who look beneath the surface? In our spiritual course,  our only true triumphs are,  God’s triumphs over us. His defeats of  us , are  our only real victories. I own that this yet appears to me to be the  only admissible rendering . We must not violate the known usage of a word, and invent another for which there is no precedent, merely for the sake of imagined perspicuity. Such is that of ‘to make to triumph’ (Beza, Estius, Grot., al.): μαθητεύειν , Matthew 28:19 , and βασιλεύειν , 1 Kings 8:22 , are not cases in point, their sense being, to ‘make a disciple,’ ‘to make a king,’ whereas that required for θριαμβεύειν , would be, ‘  triumphatorem facere.’ χορεύειν , for ‘to make to dance,’ is more to the point: οὔπω καταπαύσομεν μούσας , αἵ μ ʼ ἐχόρευσαν , Eur. Herc. Fur. 688, τάχα σ ʼ ἐγὼ μᾶλλον χορεύσω , ib. 873: but the Apostle’s own usage in ref. Col., in my mind, decides the question. See also the following context.
	 ἐν τῷ χρ ., as usually,  in our connexion with , ‘  as members of ,’  Christ : not, ‘by Christ.’
	 τὴν ὀσμήν ] The similitude is not that of a  sacrifice , but still the same as before: during a triumph, sweet spices were thrown about or burnt in the streets, which were θυμιαμάτων πλήρεις , Plut. Æmil. p. 272 (cited by Dr. Burton). As the fact of the triumph, or approach of the triumphal procession, was made known by these odours far and wide, so God diffuses by our means, who are the materials of His triumph, the sweet odour of the knowledge of Christ (who is the Triumpher, Col 2:15 ).
	 τῆς γνώσ .] genit. of apposition: the  odour , which in the interpretation of the figure,  is the knowledge.
	 αὐτοῦ , χριστοῦ , cf. next verse.