 4 13 .] The δικαιοσύνη τ . θ . is now explained to be summed up in that Saviour who was  declared to them in their own Scriptures .  For (establishing what was last said, and at the same time unfolding the δικ . τ . θ . in a form which rendered them inexcusable for its non-recognition)  Christ is the end of the Law (i.e.  the object at which the law aimed : see the similar expression 1 Timothy 1:5 , τὸ τέλος τῆς παραγγελίας ἐστὶν ἀγάπη . Various meanings have been given to τέλος . (1)  End , finis,  chronological : ‘Christ is the termination of the law.’ So the latt., Augustine, Luther, al., Olsh., Meyer, Fritz., De Wette, al. But this meaning, unless understood in its pregnant sense, that Christ, who has succeeded to the law, was also the object and aim of the law, says too little. In this pregnant sense Tholuck takes the word ‘end,’ the  end in time and in aim . It may be so; but I prefer simply to take in the idea of Christ being the end, i.e.  aim of the law, as borne out by the following citations, in which nothing is said of the  transitoriness of the law, but much of the notices which it contains of righteousness by faith in Christ. (2) Clem [92] Alex., πλήραμα γὰρ ν . χρ . εἰς δικ . π . τῷ πιστ ., De Div. Serv. § 9, p. 940 P. Theodoret, Calv., Grot., al., take τέλος for ‘  accomplishment ,’ a sense included in the general meaning, but not especially treated here, the following quotations not having any reference to it. (3) The meaning,  end in the sense of object or aim , above adopted, is that of the Syr., Chrys., Theophyl., Beza, Bengel, al. Chrys. observes: εἰ γὰρ τοῦ νόμου τέλος ὁ χριστός , ὁ τὸν χριστὸν οὐκ ἔχων , κἂν ἐκείνην (i.e. δικαιοσύνην ) δοκῇ ἔχειν , οὐκ ἔχει · ὁ δὲ τὸν χριστὸν ἔχων , κἂν μὴ ᾖ κατωρθωκὼς τὸν νόμον , τὸ πᾶν εἴληφε . καὶ γὰρ τέλος ἰατρικῆς ὑγιεία . ὥσπερ οὖν ὁ δυνάμενος ὑγιῆ ποιεῖν , κἂν μὴ τὴν ἰατρικὴν ἔχῃ , τὸ πᾶν ἔχει . ὁ δὲ μὴ εἰδὼς θεραπεύειν , κἂν μετιέναι δοκῇ τὴν τέχνην , τοῦ παντὸς ἐξέπεσεν · οὕτω ἐπὶ τοῦ νόμου καὶ τῆς πίστεως , ὁ μὲν ταύτην ἔχων , καὶ τὸ ἐκείνου τέλος ἔχει · ὁ δὲ ταύτης ἔξω ὤν , ἀμφοτέρων ἐστὶν ἀλλότριος . Hom. xvii. p. 622.
	 [92] Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	νόμου is here plainly  the law of Moses : see Middleton in loc.)  unto righteousness (i.e. so as to bring about righteousness, which the law could not do) to (dat. commodi)  every one that believeth . “Had they only used the law, instead of abusing it, it would have been their best preparation for the Saviour’s advent. For indeed, by reason of man’s natural weakness, it was always powerless to justify. It was never intended to make the sinner righteous before God; but rather to impart to him a knowledge of his sinfulness, and to awaken in his heart earnest longings for some powerful deliverer. Thus used, it would have ensured the reception of the Messiah by those who now reject Him. Striving to attain to real holiness, and increasingly conscious of the impossibility of becoming holy by an imperfect obedience to the law’s requirements, they would gladly have recognized the Saviour as the end of the law for righteousness.” Ewbank.