 6 8 .]  The righteousness which is of faith is described, in the words spoken in Scripture by Moses of the commandment given by him, as not dependent on a long and difficult process of search, but near to every man, and in every man’s power to attain . I believe the account of the following citation will be best found by bearing in mind that the Apostle is speaking of Christ as the  end of the law for righteousness to the believer. He takes as a confirmation of this, a passage occurring in a prophetic part of Deut., where Moses is foretelling to the Jews the consequences of rejecting God’s law, and His mercy to them even when under chastisement, if they would return to Him. He then describes the law in nearly the words cited in this verse. Now the Apostle, regarding Christ as the  end of the law, its great central aim and object, quotes these words not merely as suiting his purpose, but as bearing, where originally used, an  à fortiori application to faith in Him who is the end of the law, and to the commandment to believe in Him, which ( 1Jn 3:23 ) is now ‘  God’s commandment .’ If spoken of  the law as a manifestation of God in man’s heart and mouth, much more were they spoken of Him, who is  God manifest in the flesh , the  end of the law and the prophets . This view is, it is true, different from that of almost all eminent Commentators, ancient and modern, who regard the words as merely  adapted or  parodied by the Apostle as suiting his present purpose. Thus, with minor shades of difference, Chrys., Beza, Grot., Vatabl., Luther, Wolf, Bengel, Koppe, Flatt, Rückert, De Wette, Thol., Stuart, Hodge, al. But we must remember that it is in this passage Paul’s object not merely to  describe the righteousness which is of faith in Christ, but to  shew it described already in the words of the law . The Commentators who have taken more or less the view that the Apostle cites the words  as bearing the sense put on them , are Calvin, Calovius, Reiche, Meyer, Fritz., Olsh.
	 But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise (personified, as Wisdom in the Prov.),  Say not in thine heart (i.e. ‘think not,’ a Heb. idiom. The LXX has merely λέγων , לֵאמֹר . The Apostle cites freely, giving the explanation of λέγων , viz.  thinking ),  who shall go up to heaven (LXX, ἀναβ . ἡμῖν ( ἡμῶν, Α) εἰς τ . οὐρ ., see Pro 30:4 )?  that is (see note above: that imports in its full and unfolded meaning),  to bring down Christ: or who shall go down into the abyss (LXX, τίς διαπεράσει ἡμῖν εἰς τὸ πέραν τῆς θαλάσσης ; The Apostle substitutes τίς κατ . εἰς τ . ἄβ . as the direct contrast to τίς ἀν . εἰς τ . οὐρ ., as in ref. Ps.; see also Amos 9:2 : and as better suiting the interpretation which follows)?  that is, to bring up Christ from the dead . There is some difficulty in assigning the precise view with which the Apostle introduces these questions. Tholuck remarks, “The different interpretations may be reduced to this, that the questions are regarded either (1) as questions of  unbelief , or (2) as questions of  embarrassment , or (3) as questions of  anxiety .” The first view is represented by De Wette, who says, “In what sense these questions, from which the righteousness which is of faith dissuades men, are to be taken, is plain from Romans 10:9 , where the Resurrection of Christ is asserted as the one most weighty point of historical Christian belief: they would be  questions of unbelief, which regards this fact as not accomplished, or as now first to be accomplished. Thus also, probably, are we to understand the  first question , as applying to the  Incarnation of Christ .” This is more or less also the view of Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Œc [93] , Erasm., Estius, Semler, Koppe, Meyer, al., Rückert (who refers the doubt or the unbelief to the  full accomplishment of redemption by the Incarnation and Resurrection of Christ), Reiche, and Köllner (who refer καταγ . to the  ascended Saviour, thereby destroying the symmetry of the whole, because the latter question undoubtedly refers to bringing Christ not from a  present but from a  past state, from which He has historically come). (2) The second view, that they are questions of  embarrassment , is taken by L. Capellus, Wolf, Rosenm., and Stuart, which last says, “The whole (of Moses’s saying) may be summed up in one word, omitting all figurative expression: viz.  the commandment is plain and accessible . You can have, therefore, no excuse for neglecting it. So in the case before us.  Justification by faith in Christ is a plain and intelligible doctrine. It is not shut up in mysterious language.… It is like what Moses says of the statutes which he gave to Israel, plain, intelligible, accessible.… It is brought before the mind and heart of every man: and thus he is without excuse for unbelief.” (3) The third view, that they are questions of  anxiety , is that of Calv., Beza, Pisc., Bengel, Knapp, Fritz., and Tholuck: by none perhaps better expressed than by Ewbank, Comm. on the Ep. to the Rom., p. 74: “Personifying the great Christian doctrine of free justification through faith, he represents it as addressing every man who is anxious to obtain salvation, in the encouraging words of Moses: ‘Say not in thine heart, (it says to such an one) &c.…’ In other words, ‘Let not the man, who sighs for deliverance from his own sinfulness, suppose that the accomplishment of some impossible task is required of him, in order to enjoy the blessings of the Gospel. Let him not think that the personal presence of the Messiah is necessary to ensure his salvation. Christ needs not to be brought down from heaven, or up from the abyss, to impart to him forgiveness and holiness. No. Our Christian message contains no impossibilities. We do not mock the sinner by offering him happiness on conditions which we know that he is powerless to fulfil. We tell him that Christ’s word is near to him: so near, that he may speak of it with his mouth, and meditate on it with his heart.…’ Is there any thing above human power in such a confession, and in such a belief? Surely not. It is graciously adapted to the necessity of the very weakest and most sinful of God’s creatures.”
	 [93] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	[I will now take up the three views afresh, and state the objections.] (1) The objection to this view, as alleged by Tholuck, is, that in it, the contrast with Rom 10:5 is lost sight of. And this is so far just, that it must be confessed we thus lose the ideas which the Apostle evidently intended us to grasp, those of insuperable difficulty in the acquisition of righteousness by the law, and of facility, by the gospel. Also, it puts  too forward the allegation of the great matters of historical belief, which are not  here the central point of the argument, but introduced as the objects which  faith, itself that central point , apprehends. (2) The last objection has some force as against  this view. The regarding the questions as mere questions of difficulty and intellectual bewilderment does not adequately represent the ζῆλος θεοῦ predicated of the Jews, on the assumption of which the whole passage proceeds. Here, however, it seems to me, we have more truth than in (1): for the plainness and simplicity of the truth to be believed is unquestionably one most important element in the righteousness which is of faith. (3) Here we have the important element just mentioned, not indeed made the prominent point of the questions, but, as it appears to me, properly and sufficiently kept in view. The anxious follower after righteousness is not disappointed by an impracticable code, nor mocked by an unintelligible revelation: the word is  near him , therefore  accessible; plain and simple , and therefore  apprehensible ; and, taking (1) into account, we may fairly add, deals with  definite historical fact , and therefore  certain : so that his salvation is not contingent on an amount of performance which is  beyond him , and therefore  inaccessible: irrational , and therefore  inapprehensible: undefined , and therefore  involved in uncertainty . Thus, it seems to me, we satisfy all the conditions of the argument: and thus also it is clearly brought out, that  the words themselves could never have been spoken by Moses of the righteousness which is of  the law , but of that which is of  faith .