 14, 15 .] It has been much doubted to whom these questions refer, to Jews or to Gentiles? It must, I think, be answered,  To neither exclusively . They are generalized by the πᾶς ὃς ἄν of the preceding verse, to mean  all , both Jews and Gentiles. And the inference in what follows, though mainly concerning the rejection of the unbelieving Jews, has regard also to the reception of the Gentiles: see below on Romans 10:19-20 .
	At the same time, as Meyer remarks, “the necessity of the Gospel ἀποστολή must first be laid down, in order to bring out in strong contrast the disobedience of some.”  How then (i.e.  posito , that the foregoing is so)  can they (men, represented by the πᾶς ὃς ἄν of Rom 10:13 )  call on (I have followed the majority of the chief MSS. in reading the aor. subjunctive instead of the future indic. So also ch. Rom 6:1 )  Him in whom they have not believed (i.e. begun to believe: so ch. Rom 13:11 )?  But how can they believe (in Him) of whom they have not heard (construction see reff.)?  But how can they hear without a preacher? But how can men preach unless they shall have been sent? As it  is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who [publish glad tidings of peace, who] publish glad tidings of ( τά is excluded by the strong manuscript testimony against it)  good things . The Apostle is shewing the  necessity and  dignity of the preachers of the word, which leads on to the  universality of their preaching, leaving all who disobey it without excuse. He therefore cites this, as shewing that their instrumentality was one recognized in the prophetic word, where their office is described and glorified.
	The applicability of these words to the preachers of the Gospel is evident from the passage in Isaiah itself, which is spoken indeed of the return from captivity, but in that return has regard to a more glorious one under the future Redeemer. We need not therefore say that the Apostle uses Scripture words merely as expressing his own thoughts in a well-known garb; he alleges the words as a prophetic description of the preachers of whom he is writing.