 19 .]  But (in anticipation of another objection, that this universal evangelizing and admission of all, had at any rate  taken the Jews by surprise , that they had not been forewarned of any such purpose of God)  I say, Did Israel (no emphasis on Israel they are not  first here introduced , nor have the preceding verses been said only of the Gentiles; but they have been during those verses in the Apostle’s mind, and are now  named for distinctness’ sake , because it is not now a question of their having  heard , which they did in common with all, but of their having  been aware from their Scriptures of God’s intention with regard to themselves and the Gentiles)  not know (supply, not ‘the Gospel,’ τὴν ἀκοήν , as Chrys., Estius, Rückert, Olsh., al., but,  the fact that such a general proclamation of the Gospel would be made as has been mentioned in the last verse, raising up the Gentiles into equality and rivalry with themselves so Meyer, Fritz., Thol., De Wette, Stuart, al. Others supply variously: Calv. and Beza, ‘the truth of God,’ so as to have an advantage over the Gentiles: Bengel, ‘justitiam Dei:’ Bretschneider and Reiche take Ἰσραήλ for the  object of ἔγνω , and understand ὁ θεός as its  subject : ‘Did not God know, acknowledge, regard with love, Israel?’ But surely the context will not allow this)?  First (in the order of the prophetic roll; q. d. their very earliest prophet: compare Matthew 10:2 , πρῶτος Σίμων κ . τ . λ . Thol., after Rückert, observes, “The Apostle has in his mind a whole series of prophetic sayings which he might adduce, but gives only a few instead of all, and would shew by the πρῶτος , that even in the earliest period the same complaint (of Israel’s unbelief) is found”)  Moses saith, I will provoke you (Heb. and LXX, ‘them’)  to jealousy against (those who are) no nation (the Gentiles, as opposed to  the people of God),  against a nation that hath no understanding ( נָבָל , the spiritual fool of Psalms 14:1 ; Psalms 53:1 ; Pro 17:21 )  will I anger you . The original reference of these words, as addressed to Israel by Moses, is exactly apposite to the Apostle’s argument. Moses prophetically assumes the departure of Israel from God, and his rejection of them, and denounces from God that as they had moved Him to jealousy with their ‘no-gods’ (idols) and provoked Him to anger by their vanities, so He would, by receiving into his favour a ‘no-nation,’ make them jealous, and provoke them to anger by adopting instead of them a foolish nation. On the interpretation of De Wette, al., that the meaning is, God would deliver the children of Israel, as a prey to the idolatrous nations of Canaan, the parallels will not hold; nor do the following verses in Deut. (22 25) justify it.