 9 .]  Because (explanation of the word being near thee: so Thol., De Wette, Stuart, al. Others take ὅτι here as in Romans 10:5 , merely recitantis, making ἐὰν κ . τ . λ . the ῥῆμα preached. But as Thol. observes, (1) the duty of confessing the Lord Jesus can hardly be called part of the contents of the preaching of faith, but the prominence given to that duty shews a reference to the words of Moses: (2) the making ὅτι render a reason for ἐγγύς σου κ . τ . λ . suits much better the context and form of the passage: (3) the fact of the confession with the mouth standing  first , also shews a reference to what has gone before: for when the Apostle brings his own arrangement in Romans 10:10 , he puts, as natural, the belief of the heart first),  if thou shalt confess with thy mouth (same order as Rom 10:8 )  the Lord Jesus (not, I think, ‘Jesus as the Lord’ (see the readg of [94] al.): this might very well be, and κύριον might, as Thol., be the predicate placed first for emphasis, did not Paul frequently use κύριος Ἰησοῦς for ‘  the Lord Jesus ,’ see (ch. Rom 14:14 after a prep.) 1Co 1:3 al.; Phil. ( Rom 2:19 ) Romans 3:20 ; Colossians 3:17 ( 1Th 1:1 ; 1Th 4:1 ). 1Co 12:3 is hardly an example on the other side: see not there, but 2Co 4:5 is, cf. note  there ),  and believe in thine heart that God raised Him from the dead (here, as in 1 Corinthians 15:14 ; 1 Corinthians 15:16-17 , regarded as the great central fact of redemption),  thou shalt be saved (inherit eternal life).
	 [94] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	Here we have the two parts of the above question again introduced: the  confession of the Lord Jesus implying his having  come down from heaven, and the  belief in His resurrection implying His having been  brought up from the dead.