Give heed [προσεχειν] . o P. Frequent in LXX and Class. Lit. To hold to. Often with ton noun the mind, which must be supplied here. It means here not merely to give attention to, but to give assent to. So Acts 8:6; Acts 16:14; Hebrews 2:1; 2 Peter 1:19. Fables [μυθοις] . Muqov, in its widest sense, means word, speech, conversaton or its subject. Hence the talk of men, rumour, report, a saying, a story, true or false; later, a fiction as distinguished from logov a historic tale. In Attic prose, commonly a legend of prehistoric Greek times. Thus Plato, Repub. 330 D, oiJ legomenoi muqoi peri twn ejn %Aidou what are called myths concerning those in Hades. Only once in LXX, Sir. 20 19, in the sense of a saying or story. In N. T. Only in Pastorals, and 2 Peter 1:16. As to its exact reference here, it is impossible to speak with certainty. Expositors are hopelessly disagreed, some referring it to Jewish, others to Gnostic fancies. It is explained as meaning traditional supplements to the law, allegorical interpretations, Jewish stories of miracles, Rabbinical fabrications, whether in history or doctrine, false doctrines generally, etc. It is to be observed that muqoi are called Jewish in Titus 1:14. In 1 Timothy 4:7, they are described as profane and characteristic of old wives. In 2 Timothy 4:4, the word is used absolutely, as here. Endless genealogies [γενεαλογιαις απεραντοις] . Both words Past o For genealogia (o LXX) comp. Titus 3:9. Genealogeisqai to trace ancestry, only Hebrews 7:6; comp. 1 Chronicles 5:1, the only instance in LXX Aperantov endless, N. T. o. Twice in LXX By some the genealogies are referred to the Gnostic aeons or series of emanations from the divine unity; by others to the O. T. Genealogies as interpreted allegorically by Philo, and made the basis of a psychological system, or O. T. Genealogies adorned with fables : by others again to genealogical registers proper, used to foster the religious and national pride of the Jews against Gentiles, or to ascertain the descent of the Messiah. Aperantov from aj not, and perav limit or Terminus. Perav may be taken in the sense of object or aim, so that the adjective here may mean without object, useless. (So Chrysostom, Holtzmann, and von Soden.) Others take it in a popular sense, as describing the tedious length of the genealogies (Alford); and others that these matters furnish an inexhaustible subject of study (Weiss). "Fables and endless genealogies" form a single conception, the kai and being explanatory, that is to say, and the "endless genealogies" indicating in what the peculiarity of the fables consists. Which [αιτινες] . Rather the which : inasmuch as they. Minister (parecousin). Afford, furnish, give occasion for. Only twice in Paul. Elsewhere mainly in Luke and Acts. Questions [εκζητησεις] Better, questionings. N. T. o. o LXX o Class. The simple zhthseiv in Pastorals, John and Acts. The preposition ejk gives the sense of subtle, laborious investigation : inquiring out. Godly edifying. According to the reading oijkodomian edification. So Vulg. Aedificationem. But the correct reading is oijkonomian ordering or dispensation : the scheme or order of salvation devised and administered by God : God 's household economy. Oikonomia is a Pauline word. With the exception of this instance, only in Paul and Luke. See Ephesians 1:10; Ephesians 3:2, Ephesians 3:9; Colossians 1:25. Which is in faith [την εν πιστει] . See on verse 2. Faith is the sphere or clement of its operation.