Knowing [ειδως] . The participle is connected with tiv one, a man, in the preceding clause. Is not made [ου κειται] . Lit. Is not laid down, set, appointed. Comp. 1 Thessalonians 3:3. This is the only instance of its use with nomov law. That usage is frequent in Class. See, for instance, Thucyd. 2 37. Righteous [δικαιω] . Morally upright. Not in the Pauline sense of justified by faith. Comp. 2 Timothy 2:22; 2 Timothy 3:16. This appears from the way in which the opposite of righteous is described in the next clause. Lawless [ανομοις] . Recognizing no law; a sense which accords better with the following context than not having a law, as 1 Corinthians 9:21. Disobedient [ανυποτακτοις] . Only in Pastorals and Hebrews. Better unruly. Disobedient is too specific. It means those who will not come into subjection. It is closely allied with lawless. In the one case no legal obligation is recognized; in the other, subjection to law is refused. Ungodly - sinners [ασεβεσι - αμαρτωλοις] . The same collocation in 1 Peter 4:18; Jude 1:15. See on godliness, 2 Peter 1:3. Unholy - profane [ανοσιοις - βεβηλοις] . Anosiov unholy, Past o See on holiness, Luke 1:75. Bebhlov profane, comp. ch. 1 Timothy 4:7; 1 Timothy 6:20; 2 Timothy 2:16; Hebrews 12:16. The verb bebhloun to profane, Matthew 12:5; Acts 24:6, and often in LXX Derived from bhlov threshold (comp. bainein to go). Hence the primary sense is that may be trodden. Comp. Lat. Profanus before the temple, on the ground outside. What is permitted to be trodden by people at large is unhallowed, profane. Esau is called bebhlov in Hebrews 12:16, as one who did not regard his birthright as sacred, but as something to be sold in order to supply a common need. Murderers of fathers - murders of mothers [πατρολωαις - μητρολωαις] . Both words Past o and o LXX Both in Class. More literally, smiters of fathers and mothers, though used in Class. Of parricides and matricides. Derived from ajloan to smite or thresh. The simple verb, 1 Corinthians 9:9, 1 Corinthians 9:10. Manslayers [ανδροφονοις] . N. T. o. Once in LXX, 2 Macc. 9 28.