Time [καιρος] . Not, the period of mortal life; but the time which must elapse before the Lord appears. Short [συνεσταλμενος] Rev., correctly, giving the force of the participle, shortened. Compare Mark 13:20, and see on hasting unto, 2 Peter 3:12. The word means to draw together or contract. Only here and Acts 5:6, where it is used of the winding up of Ananias' corpse. In classical Greek of furling sails, packing luggage, reducing expenses, etc. Applied to time, the word is very graphic. It remaineth that [το λοιπον ινα] . The meaning is rather henceforth, or for the future. That [ινα] in any case is to be construed with the time is shortened. According to the punctuation by different editors, we may read either : the time is shortened that henceforth both those, etc.; or, the time is shortened henceforth, that both those, etc. The former is preferable. 96 The time is shortened that henceforth Christians may hold earthly ties and possessions but loosely 31 Abusing [καταχρωμενοι] . Only here and ch 1 Corinthians 9:18. The verb means to use up or consume by using. Hence the sense of misuse by overuse. So A. V. and Rev., abuse. But the American Rev., and Rev. at ch. 9 18, use to the full, thus according better with the preceding antitheses, which do not contrast what is right and wrong in itself (as use and abuse), but what is right in itself with what is proper under altered circumstances. In ordinary cases it is right for Christians to sorrow; but they should live now as in the near future, when earthly sorrow is to be done away. It is right for them to live in the married state, but they should "assimilate their present condition" to that in which they neither marry nor are given in marriage. Passeth away [παραγει] . Or, as some, the continuous present, is passing. If the former, the nature of the worldly order is expressed. It is transitory. If the latter, the fact; it is actually passing, with a suggestion of the nearness of the consummation. The context seems to indicate the latter. 97