John 10:14-15.  I am the good shepherd, and I  know  mine own, and mine own know me, even as the  Father knoweth me and I  know the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep.  As   the figure of John 10:7 was repeated in John 10:9, that it might   receive a new and blessed application, so here we have a repetition of the figure presented in the 11 th verse. The repetition removes from   view   the unworthy: we are brought once more into the presence of Jesus and His own. First and last   in these two verses stand the two clauses of the   former verse, altered only in so far that what there was said of the Good Shepherd is here said of   Jesus Himself (‘I lay down’). Between these two   clauses are placed two other sayings, the first suggested at once by the figure used, the second   rising higher than any earlier words of the parable. Since Jesus is the good Shepherd, His sheep hear His voice and He calleth His own sheep by name (John 10:3): hence He says that He knows (recognises) His own sheep and His own know (recognise) Him. But once more (see chap. John 8:38) He places in parallelism His own relation to the Father and the relation of His own to Him. He   looks on the sheep and sees at once that they are His: they see Him and hear His voice and know that He is their Shepherd. So the Father looks on Him and sees in Him the Good Shepherd whom   He sent: He looks on the Father, and constantly recognises His presence as the Father with Him. There is   wonderful beauty and elevation in the   comparison; no saying of our Lord goes beyond this in   unfolding the intimacy of communion   between Himself and His people which it reveals and promises. They are His, as He is the Father’s. It seems very probable that in these words there lies a reference to John 10:2, where we read that he who stands at the gate admits the true shepherd within the fold, recognising him, distinguishing him at once from those who falsely claim the name, just as the shepherd distinguishes his own sheep from those that are not of his flock. These two verses are remarkable for simplicity of structure. As in the simplest examples of Hebrew poetry, thought is attached to thought, one member is placed in parallelism with another. Yet, as in the Hebrew poetry of which this reminds us, a  dependence of thought upon thought may be inferred, though it is not expressed. Thus we have seen that, if Jesus is the Good Shepherd, it must be true that He recognises His own sheep. So also (and it is to point out this that we call attention to the structure of the verse) the Father’s recognition of Him closely connects itself with His laying down His life, as the Shepherd for the sheep.   In this the Father sees the highest proof of His devotion to the work He has accepted: in the   spirit of constant readiness for this crowning act of love He recognises the   Father’s constant presence   and love (John 10:17). And, as the words of   the verse bear witness to the Father’s care for man   (not less truly and powerfully because this meaning does not lie on the surface of the words), it is easy to see once more with what fitness we here   read ‘the Father,’ and not simply ‘my Father’ (see chap. John 8:27; John 8:38).