19. "Wherefore then serveth
	the law?" as it is of no avail for justification, is it either
	useless, or contrary to the covenant of God? [CALVIN].
	added—to the original
	covenant of promise. This is not inconsistent with  :-, "No man addeth thereto"; for there the kind of
	addition meant, and therefore denied, is one that would add
	new conditions, inconsistent with the grace of the covenant of
	promise. The law, though misunderstood by the Judaizers as doing so,
	was really added for a different purpose, namely, "because of
	(or as the Greek, 'for the sake of') the transgressions,"
	that is, to bring out into clearer view the transgressions of
	it (Romans 7:7-9); to make
	men more fully conscious of their "sins," by being
	perceived as transgressions of the law, and so to make them
	long for the promised Saviour. This accords with Galatians 3:23;
	Galatians 3:24; Romans 4:15.
	The meaning can hardly be "to check transgressions,"
	for the law rather stimulates the corrupt heart to disobey it
	(Romans 5:20; Romans 7:13).
	till the seed—during
	the period up to the time when the seed came. The law was a
	preparatory dispensation for the Jewish nation (Romans 7:13- :; Greek, "the law came in additionally and
	incidentally"), intervening between the promise and its
	fulfilment in Christ. 
	come—(Compare "faith
	came," Galatians 3:23). 
	the promise— (Galatians 3:23- :). 
	ordained—Greek,
	"constituted" or "disposed." 
	by angels—as the
	instrumental enactors of the law [ALFORD]
	God delegated the law to angels as something rather alien to Him and
	severe (Acts 7:53; Hebrews 2:2;
	Hebrews 2:3; compare Hebrews 2:3- :, "He came with ten thousands of saints," that is,
	angels, Psalms 68:17). He reserved
	"the promise" to Himself and dispensed it according to His
	own goodness. 
	in the hand of a
	mediator—namely, Moses. Deuteronomy 5:5,
	"I stood between the Lord and you": the very
	definition of a mediator. Hence the phrase often recurs, "By the
	hand of Moses." In the giving of the law, the "angels"
	were representatives of God; Moses, as mediator, represented the
	people.