13. Abrupt exclamation, as he
	breaks away impatiently from those who would involve us again
	in the curse of the law, by seeking justification in it, to
	"Christ," who "has redeemed us from its curse."
	The "us" refers primarily to the Jews, to whom the law
	principally appertained, in contrast to "the Gentiles" ( :-; compare Galatians 4:3;
	Galatians 4:4). But it is not
	restricted solely to the Jews, as ALFORD
	thinks; for these are the representative people of the world at
	large, and their "law" is the embodiment of what God
	requires of the whole world. The curse of its non-fulfilment affects
	the Gentiles through the Jews; for the law represents that
	righteousness which God requires of all, and which, since the Jews
	failed to fulfil, the Gentiles are equally unable to fulfil. Galatians 4:4- :, "As many as are of the works of the law, are under the
	curse," refers plainly, not to the Jews only, but to all,
	even Gentiles (as the Galatians), who seek justification by the law.
	The Jews' law represents the universal law which condemned the
	Gentiles, though with less clear consciousness on their part (Galatians 4:4- :). The revelation of God's "wrath" by the law of
	conscience, in some degree prepared the Gentiles for appreciating
	redemption through Christ when revealed. The curse had to be removed
	from off the heathen, too, as well as the Jews, in order that the
	blessing, through Abraham, might flow to them. Accordingly, the "we,"
	in "that we might receive the promise of the Spirit,"
	plainly refers to both Jews and Gentiles. 
	redeemed us—bought
	us off from our former bondage (Galatians 4:4- :), and "from the curse" under which all lie who
	trust to the law and the works of the law for justification. The
	Gentile Galatians, by putting themselves under the law, were
	involving themselves in the curse from which Christ has redeemed the
	Jews primarily, and through them the Gentiles. The ransom price He
	paid was His own precious blood (1 Peter 1:18;
	1 Peter 1:19; compare Matthew 20:28;
	Acts 20:28; 1 Corinthians 6:20;
	1 Corinthians 7:23; 1 Timothy 2:6;
	2 Peter 2:1; Revelation 5:9).
	being made—Greek,
	"having become." 
	a curse for us—Having
	become what we were, in our behalf, "a curse," that
	we might cease to be a curse. Not merely accursed (in the
	concrete), but a curse in the abstract, bearing the
	universal curse of the whole human race. So Revelation 5:9- :, "Sin for us," not sinful, but bearing the
	whole sin of our race, regarded as one vast aggregate of sin.
	See Note there. "Anathema" means "set apart to God,"
	to His glory, but to the person's own destruction. "Curse,"
	an execration. 
	written— (Revelation 5:9- :). Christ's bearing the particular curse of hanging
	on the tree, is a sample of the "general" curse which He
	representatively bore. Not that the Jews put to death malefactors by
	hanging; but after having put them to death otherwise, in
	order to brand them with peculiar ignominy, they hung the
	bodies on a tree, and such malefactors were accursed by the law
	(compare Acts 5:30; Acts 10:39).
	God's providence ordered it so that to fulfil the prophecy of the
	curse and other prophecies, Jesus should be crucified, and so hang
	on the tree, though that death was not a Jewish mode of execution.
	The Jews accordingly, in contempt, call Him Tolvi, "the
	hanged one," and Christians, "worshippers of the
	hanged one"; and make it their great objection that He died the
	accursed death [TRYPHO, in
	Justin Martyr, p. 249] (Acts 10:39- :). Hung between heaven and earth as though unworthy of
	either!