20. "Now a mediator cannot
	be of one (but must be of two parties whom he mediates
	between); but God is one" (not two: owing to His essential unity
	not admitting of an intervening party between Him and those to be
	blessed; but as the ONE
	Sovereign, His own representative, giving the blessing directly
	by promise to Abraham, and, in its fulfilment, to Christ, "the
	Seed," without new condition, and without a mediator such as the
	law had). The conclusion understood is, Therefore a mediator
	cannot appertain to God; and consequently, the law, with its
	inseparable appendage of a mediator, cannot be the normal way of
	dealing of God, the one, and unchangeable God, who dealt with Abraham
	by direct promise, as a sovereign, not as one forming a
	compact with another party, with conditions and a mediator attached
	thereto. God would bring man into immediate communion with Him, and
	not have man separated from Him by a mediator that keeps back from
	access, as Moses and the legal priesthood did (Exodus 19:12;
	Exodus 19:13; Exodus 19:17;
	Exodus 19:21-24; Hebrews 12:19-24).
	The law that thus interposed a mediator and conditions between man
	and God, was an exceptional state limited to the Jews, and
	parenthetically preparatory to the Gospel, God's normal mode of
	dealing, as He dealt with Abraham, namely, face to face directly;
	by promise and grace, and not conditions; to all
	nations united by faith in the one seed (Ephesians 2:14;
	Ephesians 2:16; Ephesians 2:18),
	and not to one people to the exclusion and severance from the ONE
	common Father, of all other nations. It is no objection to this view,
	that the Gospel, too, has a mediator (Ephesians 2:18- :). For Jesus is not a mediator separating the two parties in
	the covenant of promise or grace, as Moses did, but ONE
	in both nature and office with both God and man
	(compare "God in Christ," Ephesians 2:18- :): representing the whole universal manhood (1 Corinthians 15:22;
	1 Corinthians 15:45; 1 Corinthians 15:47),
	and also bearing in Him "all the fulness of the Godhead."
	Even His mediatorial office is to cease when its purpose of
	reconciling all things to God shall have been accomplished (1 Corinthians 15:47- :); and God's ONENESS
	(Zechariah 14:9), as "all in
	all," shall be fully manifested. Compare Zechariah 14:9- :, where the two mediators—Moses, the severing mediator of
	legal conditions, and Jesus, the uniting mediator of grace—are
	contrasted. The Jews began their worship by reciting the Schemah,
	opening thus, "Jehovah our God is ONE
	Jehovah"; which words their Rabbis (as JARCHIUS)
	interpret as teaching not only the unity of God, but the future
	universality of His Kingdom on earth (Zechariah 14:9- :). Paul (Romans 3:30) infers
	the same truth from the ONENESS
	of God (compare Ephesians 4:4-6).
	He, as being One, unites all believers, without distinction, to
	Himself (Galatians 3:8; Galatians 3:16;
	Galatians 3:28; Ephesians 1:10;
	Ephesians 2:14; compare Ephesians 2:14- :) in direct communion. The unity of God involves the unity of
	the people of God, and also His dealing directly without intervention
	of a mediator.