Her first born son. The Greek reads literally, her son, the first born. Wrapped in swaddling clothes [εσπαργανωσεν] . Only here and verse Luke 2:12Naturally found often in medical writings. Swaddle is swathel, from the verb to swathe. In a manger [εν φατνη] . Used by Luke only, here and Luke 13:15. Wyc. has a cracche, spelt also cratch. Compare French creche, a manger. Quite possibly a rock cave. Dr. Thomson says : "I have seen many such, consisting of one or more rooms, in front of and including a cavern where the cattle were kept" (Land and Book "). In the inn [εν τω καταλυματι] . Only here, chapter Luke 23:11; Mark 14:14, on which see note. In both these passages it is rendered guest chamber, which can hardly be the meaning here, as some have maintained. (See Geikie, "Life and Words of Christ," 1, 121.) In that case the expression would be, they found no kataluma, guest chamber. The word refers to the ordinary khan, or caravanserai. Tynd., hostrey. "A Syrian khan is a fort and a mart; a refuge from thieves; a shelter from the heat and dust; a place where a man and his beast may lodge; where a trader may sell his wares, and a pilgrim may slake his thirst.... Where built by a great sheikh, it would have a high wall, an inner court, a range of arches or lewans, an open gallery round the four sides, and, in many cases, a tower from which the watcher might descry the approach of inarauding bands. On one side of the square, but outside the wall, there is often a huddle of sheds, set apart from the main edifice, as stables for the asses and camels, the buffaloes and goats. In the center of the khan springs a fountain of water, the first necessity of an Arab 's life; and around the jets an troughs in which the limpid element streams, lies the gay and picturesque litter of the East. Camels wait to be unloaded; dogs quarrel for a bone; Bedaween from the desert, their red zannars choked with pistols, are at prayer. In the archways squat the merchants with their bales of goods.... Half naked men are cleansing their hands ere sitting down to eat. Here a barber is at work upon a shaven crown; there a fellah lies asleep in the shade.... Each man has to carry his dinner and his bed; to litter his horse or camel; to dress his food; to draw his water; to light his fire, and to boil his mess of herbs" (Hepworth Dixon, " The Holy Land ").  Luke 2:0:8Shepherds. Luke's Gospel is the gospel of the poor and lowly. This revelation to the shepherds acquires additional meaning as we remember that shepherds, as a class, were under the Rabbinic ban, because of their necessary isolation from religious ordinances, and their manner of life, which rendered strict legal observance wellnigh impossible. Keeping watch [φυλασσοντες φυλακας] . Fulakh is sometimes used of a watch as a measure of time, as in Matthew 14:25; Mark 6:48; Luke 12:38. So possibly here. See Rev. in margin, night watches. There is a play upon the words : watching watches. There was near Bethlehem, on the road to Jerusalem, a tower known as Migdal Eder, or the watch tower of the flock. Here was the station where shepherds watched the flocks destined for sacrifice in the temple. Animals straying from Jerusalem on any side, as far as from Jerusalem to Migdal Eder, were offered in sacrifice. It was a settled conviction among the Jews that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem, and equally that he was to be revealed from Migdal Eder. The beautiful significance of the revelation of the infant Christ to shepherds watching the flocks destined for sacrifice needs no comment. Their flock [την ποιμνην] . May not the singular number fall in with what has just been said? - the flock, the temple flock, specially devoted to sacrifice. The pronoun their would furnish no objection, since it is common to speak of the flock as belonging to the shepherd. Compare John 10:3, John 10:4.