Acts 19:12.  So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed from them.  Σουδα ́ ρια (Lat.  sudaria)  are the ordinary handkerchiefs so common in use in the East, and which are used to wipe the sweat from the brows or face. The aprons, σιμικι ́ νθια (Lat.  semicinctia),  is the same word as in Luke 19:20, John 11:44; John 20:7, is translated ‘napkin,’ and seems to have been used as the term for an ordinary linen cloth. Its literal meaning, and in this sense it is used here, is an apron worn by a workman when engaged at work. Apparently the ‘handkerchief and apron’ used by the apostle as he worked at his tent cloths were frequently begged from him and used as a precious garment, which conveyed the supernatural gift of healing which the wearer exercised. The same uncommon miraculous power we hear of in the Old Testament, but very rarely. We might instance the cloak of Elijah, under whose stroke the Jordan waters parted; the staff or rod of Moses; the bones of Elisha; but perhaps the best instances are the miracles worked by the touch of the fringe of the Saviour’s garment (Matthew 9:20), and the shadow of Peter as he passed by (Acts 5:15). The comment of Dean Alford here is admirable: ‘In this and similar narratives, Christian faith finds no difficulty whatever. All miraculous working is an exertion of the direct power of the All-powerful, a suspension by Him of His ordinary laws; and whether He will use  any  instrument in doing this, or  what  instrument, must depend altogether on His own purpose in the miracle, the effect to be produced on the recipients, beholders, or hearers. Without his special selection and enabling,  all instruments are vain;  with these,  all are capable.  In the present case, it was His purpose to exalt His apostle as the herald of His gospel, and to lay in Ephesus the strong foundation of His Church; and He therefore endues him with this extraordinary power.’
	 And the evil spirits.  On these evil spirits, see note on the exorcists of the next (Acts 19:13) verse.
	