Acts 19:26.  Not only at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people.  This testimony of the ‘shrine-maker’ of Ephesus to the singular and rapid success of the early preaching of Christianity is thoroughly borne out by witnesses outside the New Testament writers. The words of Pliny in his letter to the Emperor Trajan have already been quoted (see the note on Acts 19:10). Tertullian of Carthage, at another extremity of the Roman Empire, in the far west of the north of Africa, writing towards the end of the second century, a little more than a hundred years after these words were spoken by Demetrius at Ephesus, says: ‘We are a people of yesterday, and   yet we have filled every place belonging to you, cities, islands, castles, towns, assemblies, your   very camp, your tribes, companies, palaces, senate, forum: we leave your temples only’ (  Apologeticum,  chap, xxxvii.)  .
	Saying that they be no gods which are made with hands.  The comment of Professor Plumptre on these words of the ‘shrine-maker is admirable. ‘The wrath of the   mob leader leads him virtually to commit himself to the opposite statement that the idol is the   god. Philosophers may speak of symbolism and ideal representation, but this was and always has been and will be the conclusion of popular idolatry.’
	With these strange sad words of the idol artificer should be compared the striking picture of an idol image made to be worshipped, painted by Isaiah 44:9-18. The enthusiasm, however, here displayed for the maintenance of the old religion was based upon the most sordid feelings. The master-worker of these makers of the silver shrines feared   that   if the old religion fell into disrepute, his craft would be brought to nought, there would be an end to his gains. It is true that in the next verse another and a more disinterested plea is put forward to excuse his vehement appeal to his fellow - citizens. It is, however, evidently only an after-thought. 