10. Comforting assurance that
	God will finally "perfect" His work of "grace" in
	them, after they have undergone the necessary previous suffering. 
	But—Only do you watch
	and resist the foe: God will perform the rest [BENGEL].
	of all grace—(Compare
	1 Peter 4:10). The God to whom as
	its source all grace is to be referred; who in grace completes what
	in grace He began. He from the first "called (so the oldest
	manuscripts read for "us") unto (with a view to) glory."
	He will not let His purpose fall short of completion. If He does so
	in punishing, much more in grace. The three are fitly conjoined: the
	call, the glory to which we are called, and the way
	(suffering); the fourth is the ground of the calling, namely,
	the grace of God in Christ.
by—Greek, "in."
	Christ is He in virtue of whom, and in union with whom,
	believers are called to glory. The opposite is "in the world"
	(1 Peter 5:9; John 16:33).
	after that ye have
	suffered—Join to "called you": suffering, as a
	necessary preliminary to glory, was contemplated in God's
	calling.
a while—short and
	inconsiderable, as compared with the glory.
perfect, c.—The two
	oldest manuscripts, and Vulgate and Coptic versions,
	read, "shall perfect (so that there shall be nothing
	defective in you), stablish, strengthen," and omit
	"settle," literally, "ground," or "fix on a
	foundation." ALFORD
	reads it in spite of the oldest manuscripts The authority of the
	latter I prefer moreover the climax seems to require rather a verb of
	completing the work of grace, than, as the Greek means,
	founding it. The Greek has, "shall HIMSELF
	perfect you": though you are called on to watch and
	resist the foe, God Himself must really do all in and
	through you. The same God who begins must Himself complete the
	work. The Greek for "stablish" (so as to be
	"steadfast in the faith," John 16:33- :) is the same as "strengthen," John 16:33- :. Peter has in mind Christ's charge, "When thou art
	converted, strengthen thy brethren." His exhortation
	accords with his name Peter, "Thou art Peter, and
	upon this rock I will build My Church." "Stablish,"
	so as not to waver. "Strengthen" with might in the inner
	man by His Spirit, against the foe.