13. The . . . at Babylon—ALFORD,
	BENGEL, and others
	translate, "She that is elected together with you in Babylon,"
	namely, Peter's wife, whom he led about with him in his
	missionary journeys. Compare  :-, "heirs together of the grace of life." But
	why she should be called "elected together with you in
	Babylon," as if there had been no Christian woman in Babylon
	besides, is inexplicable on this view. In English Version the
	sense is clear: "That portion of the whole dispersion
	(1 Peter 1:1, Greek), or
	Church of Christianized Jews, with Gentile converts, which resides in
	Babylon." As Peter and John were closely associated, Peter
	addresses the Church in John's peculiar province, Asia, and closes
	with "your co-elect sister Church at Babylon
	saluteth you"; and John similarly addresses the "elect
	lady," that is, the Church in Babylon, and closes with
	"the children of thine elect sister (the Asiatic Church) greet
	thee"; (compare 1 Peter 1:1- : to
	Second John). ERASMUS
	explains, "Mark who is in the place of a son to me":
	compare Acts 12:12, implying
	Peter's connection with Mark; whence the mention of him in connection
	with the Church at Babylon, in which he labored under Peter
	before he went to Alexandria is not unnatural. PAPIAS
	reports from the presbyter John [EUSEBIUS,
	Ecclesiastical History, 3.39], that Mark was interpreter of
	Peter, recording in his Gospel the facts related to him by Peter.
	Silvanus or Silas had been substituted for John Mark, as Paul's
	companion, because of Mark's temporary unfaithfulness. But now Mark
	restored is associated with Silvanus, Paul's companion, in Peter's
	esteem, as Mark was already reinstated in Paul's esteem. That Mark
	had a spiritual connection with the Asiatic' churches which Peter
	addresses, and so naturally salutes them, appears from 2 Timothy 4:11;
	Colossians 4:10. 
	Babylon—The Chaldean
	Babylon on the Euphrates. See Colossians 4:10- :,
	ON THE PLACE OF WRITING
	this Epistle, in proof that Rome is not meant as Papists
	assert; compare LIGHTFOOT
	sermon. How unlikely that in a friendly salutation the
	enigmatical title of Rome given in prophecy (John, Colossians 4:10- :), should be used! Babylon was the center from which the
	Asiatic dispersion whom Peter addresses was derived. PHILO
	[The Embassy to Gaius, 36] and JOSEPHUS
	[Antiquities, 15.2.2; 23.12] inform us that Babylon contained
	a great many Jews in the apostolic age (whereas those at Rome were
	comparatively few, about eight thousand [JOSEPHUS,
	Antiquities, 17.11]); so it would naturally be visited by the
	apostle of the circumcision. It was the headquarters of those whom he
	had so successfully addressed on Pentecost, Colossians 4:10- :, Jewish "Parthians . . . dwellers in Mesopotamia"
	(the Parthians were then masters of Mesopotamian Babylon); these he
	ministered to in person. His other hearers, the Jewish
	"dwellers in Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia, Phrygia, Pamphylia,"
	he now ministers to by letter. The earliest distinct authority for
	Peter's martyrdom at Rome is DIONYSIUS,
	bishop of Corinth, in the latter half of the second century. The
	desirableness of representing Peter and Paul, the two leading
	apostles, as together founding the Church of the metropolis, seems to
	have originated the tradition. CLEMENT
	OF ROME [First
	Epistle to the Corinthians, 4.5], often quoted for, is really
	against it. He mentions Paul and Peter together, but makes it as a
	distinguishing circumstance of Paul, that he preached both in
	the East and West, implying that Peter never was in the West. In Colossians 4:10- :, he says, "I must shortly put off this
	tabernacle," implying his martyrdom was near, yet he makes no
	allusion to Rome, or any intention of his visiting it.