5. ye younger—The deacons
	were originally the younger men, the presbyters older; but
	subsequently as presbyter expressed the office of Church ruler
	or teacher, so Greek "neoteros" means not (as
	literally) young men in age, but subordinate ministers
	and servants of the Church. So Christ uses the term "younger."
	For He explains it by "he that doth serve," literally, "he
	that ministereth as a deacon"; just as He explains "the
	greatness" by "he that is chief," literally, "he
	that ruleth," the very word applied to the bishops
	or presbyters. So "the young men" are undoubtedly
	the deacons of the Church of Jerusalem, of whom, as being all
	Hebrews, the Hellenistic Christians subsequently complained as
	neglecting their Grecian widows, whence arose the appointment
	of the seven others, Hellenistic deacons. So here, Peter,
	having exhorted the presbyters, or elders, not to lord it over
	those committed to them, adds, Likewise ye neoters or younger,
	that is, subordinate ministers and deacons, submit cheerfully to the
	command of the elders [MOSHEIM].
	There is no Scripture sanction for "younger" meaning laymen
	in general (as ALFORD
	explains): its use in this sense is probably of later date. The "all
	of you" that follows, refers to the congregation
	generally; and it is likely that, like Paul, Peter should notice,
	previous to the general congregation, the subordinate ministers
	as well as the presbyters, writing as he did to the same
	region (Ephesus), and to confirm the teaching of the apostle of the
	Gentiles. 
	Yea—to sum up all my
	exhortations in one. 
	be subject—omitted in
	the oldest manuscripts and versions, but TISCHENDORF
	quotes the Vatican manuscript for it. Then translate, "Gird
	(1 Peter 1:13; 1 Peter 4:1)
	fast on humility (lowliness of mind) to one another." The verb
	is literally, "tie on with a fast knot" [WAHL].
	Or, "gird on humility as the slave dress
	(encomboma)": as the Lord girded Himself with a towel to
	perform a servile office of humility and love, washing His disciples'
	feet, a scene in which Peter had played an important part, so that he
	would naturally have it before his mind. Compare similarly 1 Peter 5:2;
	John 21:15-17. Clothing was
	the original badge of man's sin and shame. Pride caused the need of
	man's clothing, and pride still reigns in dress; the Christian
	therefore clothes himself in humility (1 Peter 3:3;
	1 Peter 3:4). God provides him with
	the robe of Christ's righteousness, in order to receive which man
	must be stripped of pride. 
	God resisteth the
	proud—Quoted, as James 4:6;
	Proverbs 3:34. Peter had James before
	his mind, and gives his Epistle inspired sanction. Compare 1 Peter 5:9;
	James 4:7, literally, "arrayeth
	Himself against." Other sins flee from God: pride alone opposeth
	itself to God; therefore, God also in turn opposes Himself to
	the proud [GERHARD in
	ALFORD]. Humility is the
	vessel of all graces [AUGUSTINE].