12. Silvanus—Silas, the
	companion of Paul and Timothy: a suitable messenger by whom to
	confirm, as Peter here does, Paul's doctrine of "the true
	grace of God" in the same churches (compare  :-). We never meet with Silvanus as Paul's companion after
	Paul's last journey to Jerusalem. His connection with Peter was
	plainly subsequent to that journey. 
	as I suppose—Join
	"faithful unto you [STEIGER],
	as I suppose." Silvanus may have stood in a close relation to
	the churches in Asia, perhaps having taken the oversight of them
	after Paul's departure, and had afterwards gone to Peter, by whom he
	is now sent back to them with this Epistle. He did not know,
	by positive observation, Silvanus' faithfulness to them; he
	therefore says, "faithful to you, as I suppose,"
	from the accounts I hear; not expressing doubt. ALFORD
	joins "I have written unto you," which the Greek
	order favors. The seeming uncertainty, thus, is not as to Silvanus'
	faithfulness, which strongly marked by the Greek article, but
	as to whether he or some other would prove to be the bearer of the
	letter, addressed as it was to five provinces, all of which
	Silvanus might not reach: "By Silvanus, that faithful brother,
	as expect, I have Written to you" [BIRKS].
	briefly—Greek,
	"in few (words)," as compared with the importance of the
	subject (Hebrews 13:22). 
	exhorting—not so much
	formally teaching doctrines, which could not be done in so
	"few words." 
	testifying—bearing my
	testimony in confirmation (so the Greek compound verb
	implies) of that truth which ye have already heard from Paul and
	Silas (1 John 2:27). 
	that this—of which I
	have just written, and of which Paul before testified to you (whose
	testimony, now that he was no longer in those regions, was called in
	question probably by some; compare 2 Peter 3:15;
	2 Peter 3:16). 2 Peter 3:16- :, "the present truth," namely, the grace formerly
	promised by the prophets, and now manifested to you. "Grace"
	is the keynote of Paul's doctrine which Peter now confirms (Ephesians 2:5;
	Ephesians 2:8). Their sufferings for
	the Gospel made them to need some attestation and confirmation of the
	truth, that they should not fall back from it. 
	wherein ye stand—The
	oldest manuscripts read imperatively, "Stand ye."
	Literally, "into which (having been already admitted,
	1 Peter 1:8; 1 Peter 1:21;
	1 Peter 2:7; 1 Peter 2:8;
	1 Peter 2:9) stand (therein)."
	Peter seems to have in mind Paul's words (Romans 5:2;
	1 Corinthians 15:1). "The grace
	wherein we stand must be true, and our standing in it true also"
	[BENGEL]. Compare in "He
	began his Epistle with grace (1 Corinthians 15:1- :), he finishes it with grace, he has besprinkled the middle
	with grace, that in every part he might teach that the Church is not
	saved but by grace."