To be discreet,.... Or temperate in eating and drinking, so the word is rendered in Titus 2:2 or to be sober both in body and mind; or to be wise and prudent in the whole of their conduct, both at home and abroad:chaste; in body, in affection, words and actions, having their love pure and single to their own husbands, keeping their marriage bed undefiled.Keepers at home: minding their own family affairs, not gadding abroad; and inspecting into, and busying themselves about other people's matters. This is said in opposition to what women are prone unto. It is reckoned among the properties of women, by the Jews, that they are יוצאניות, "gadders abroad" x: they have some rules about women's keeping at home; they say y,"a woman may go to her father's house to visit him, and to the house of mourning, and to the house of feasting, to return a kindness to her friends, or to her near relations--but it is a reproach to a woman to go out daily; now she is without, now she is in the streets; and a husband ought to restrain his wife from it, and not suffer her to go abroad but about once a month, or twice a month, upon necessity; for there is nothing more beautiful for a woman, than to abide in the corner of her house; for so it is written, Psalms 45:13 "the king's daughter is all glorious within".''And this they say z is what is meant by the woman's being an helpmeet for man, that while he is abroad about his business, she is יושבת בבית, "sitting at home", and keeping his house; and this they observe is the glory and honour of the woman. The passage inIsaiah 44:13 concerning an image being made "after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, that it may remain in the house" is by the Targum thus paraphrased:"according to the likeness of a man, according to the praise of a woman, to abide in the house.''Upon which Kimchi, has this note."it is the glory of a woman to continue at home, and not go abroad.''The tortoise, which carries its house upon its back, and very rarely shows its head, or looks out of it, was, with the ancients, an emblem of a good housewife. These also should be instructed to be "good" or "kind" to their servants, and beneficent to the poor, and to strangers, towards whom, very often, women are apt to be strait handed, and not so generous and liberal as they should be:obedient to their own husbands; Isaiah 44:13- :,Isaiah 44:13- :.that the word of God be not blasphemed; by unbelieving husbands, who, by the ill conduct of their wives, would be provoked to speak ill of the Gospel, as if that taught disaffection and disobedience to them.x Bereshit Rabba, sect. 45. fol. 40. 3. y Maimon. Hilchot Ishot, c. 13. sect. 11. z Tzeror Hammor, fol. 5. 4.