Verse Luke 13:11. A woman which had a spirit of infirmity — Relative to this subject three things may be considered: -I. The woman's infirmity.II. Her cure. AndIII. The conduct of the ruler of the synagogue on the occasion.I. The woman's infirmity.1. What was its origin? SIN. Had this never entered into the world, there had not been either pain, distortion, or death.2. Who was the agent in it? Satan; Luke 13:16. God has often permitted demons to act on and in the bodies of men and women; and it is not improbable that the principal part of unaccountable and inexplicable disorders still come from the same source.3. What was the nature of this infirmity? She was bowed together, bent down to the earth, a situation equally painful and humiliating; the violence of which she could not support, and the shame of which she could not conceal.4. What was the duration of this infirmity? Eighteen years. A long time to be under the constant and peculiar influence of the devil.What was the effect of this infirmity? The woman was so bowed together that she could in no case stand straight, or look toward heaven.II. The woman's cure.1. Jesus saw her, Luke 13:12. Notwithstanding her infirmity was great, painful, and shameful, she took care to attend the synagogue. While she hoped for help from God, she saw it was her duty to wait in the appointed way, in order to receive it. Jesus saw her distress, and the desire she had both to worship her Maker and to get her health restored, and his eye affected his heart.2. He called her to him. Her heart and her distress spoke loudly, though her lips were silent; and, as she was thus calling for help, Jesus calls her to himself that she may receive help.3. Jesus laid his hands on her. The hand of his holiness terrifies, and the hand of his power expels, the demon. Ordinances, however excellent, will be of no avail to a sinner, unless he apprehend Christ in them.4. Immediately she was made straight, Luke 13:13. This cure was -1. A speedy one - it was done in an instant.2. It was a perfect one - she was made completely whole.3. It was a public one - there were many to attest and render it credible.4. It was a stable and permanent one - she was loosed, for ever loosed from her infirmity.5. Her soul partook of the good done to her body - she glorified God. As she knew before that it was Satan who had bound her, she knew also that it was God only that could loose her; and now, feeling that she is loosed, she gives God that honour which is due to his name. 2. He endeavours to prevent others from receiving the kind help of the blessed Jesus - He said unto the people, c., Luke 13:14. Men of this character who have extensive influence over the poor, &c., do immense harm: they often hinder them from hearing that word which is able to save their souls. But for this also they must stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Reader, hast thou ever acted in this way?3. Jesus retorts his condemnation with peculiar force Luke 13:15-16. Thou hypocrite to pretend zeal for God's glory, when it is only the workings of thy malicious, unfeeling, and uncharitable heart. Wouldst thou not even take thy ass to water upon the Sabbath day? And wouldst thou deprive a daughter of Abraham (one of thy own nation and religion) of the mercy and goodness of God upon the Sabbath? Was not the Sabbath instituted for the benefit of man?4. His adversaries were ashamed, Luke 13:17. The mask of their hypocrisy, the only covering they had, is taken away; and now they are exposed to the just censure of that multitude whom they deceived, and from whom they expected continual applause.5. His indignation and uncharitable censure, not only turn to his own confusion, but are made the instruments of the edification of the multitude - they rejoiced at all the glorious things which he did. Thus, O Lord! the wrath of man shall praise thee, and the remainder thereof thou shalt restrain.A preacher will know how to apply this subject to general edification.