 24. ]  But if all (see above)  prophesy (i.e. intelligibly lay forth, in the power of the Spirit, the Christian word and doctrine)  and there enter any (singular  now , setting forth that this would be the effect  in any case : plural  before , to shew that however many there might be,  not one could appreciate the gift)  unbeliever or plain man ( ἄπιστος  first now , because the great stress is on the power of prophecy in its greatest achievement, the  conversion of the unbeliever ; but ἰδιῶται was first  before , because the stress there was on the unprofitableness of tongues,  not only to the   ἄπιστοι  , but to the ἰδιῶται ),  he is convicted by all (the inspired discourse penetrating, as below, into the depths of his heart, by  all , i.e. by each in turn),  he is searched into by all (each inspired speaker opening to him his character),  the hidden things of his heart become manifest (those things which he had never before seen are revealed, his whole hitherto unrecognized personal character laid out. Instances of such revelations of a man to himself by powerful preaching have often occurred, even since the cessation of the prophetic gift):  and thus (thus convicted, searched, revealed to himself: in such a state of mind)  having fallen on his face, he will worship God, announcing (  by that his act , which is a public submission to the divine Power manifest among you: or, but not so well,  aloud , by declaration of it in words)  that of a truth (implying that previously he had regarded the presence of God among them as an idle tale; or, if a plain Christian, had not sufficiently realized it)  God is among you (or in each of you: by His Spirit). In this last description the ἰδιώτης is thrown into the background, and (see above) the greater achievement of prophecy, the conviction and conversion of the ἄπιστος , is chiefly in view. “For a similar effect of the disclosure of a man’s secret self to himself, compare the fascination described as exercised by Socrates over his hearers by the ‘conviction’ and ‘judgment’ of his questions in the Athenian market-place. Grote’s Hist. of Greece, viii. 609 611.” Stanley.