 22. ]  ὥστε , viz. according to the words of the foregoing prophetic passage.
	 αἱ γλ .]  the tongues , in the  then acceptation of the term. He is not interpreting the prophecy, nor alluding to the tongues  there spoken of, but returns back to the subject in hand  the tongues about which his argument was concerned.
	 εἰς σημ  .   εἰσίν  ] are for a sign : but there is no emphasis on the words, the meaning being much the same as if εἰς σημεῖον were omitted, and it stood ὥστε αἱ γλ . εἰσὶν οὐ τοῖς π . Not seeing this, Commentators have differed widely about the meaning of σημεῖον . So Chrys. (Hom. xxxvi. p. 335): εἰς σημεῖον , τουτέστιν , εἰς ἔκπληξιν : Bengel: ‘quo allecti auscultare debebant:’ Calvin: ‘linguæ, quatenus in signum datæ sunt:’ &c. &c. All dwelling on the word σημεῖου would introduce an element foreign to the argument, which is,  that tongues are (a sign)  for the unbelieving, not for the believing .
	 οὐ τ  .   πιστ .]  not to men who believe, but to unbelievers , i.e. ‘men who do not believe:’ not, as Neander, Billroth, Rückert, and in substance De Wette, ‘men who  will not believe:’ ἄπιστος must be kept to the same sense through this whole passage, and plainly by 1Co 14:23 it is  not one who will  not believe , but  an unbeliever open to conviction . The mistake has been occasioned by regarding  those to whom the prophecy was directed , and interpreting Paul by Isaiah, instead of by himself.
	 ἡ δὲ προφ .] scil. ἐστίν , as Meyer, or εἰς σημ . ἐστίν , as De Wette: it seems to me to import little which we supply, seeing that εἰς σημ . is of so very slight weight in the preceding clause. If emphatic meaning had been attached to σημεῖον  as belonging to αἱ γλ ., we must not have supplied it here: but if it be a mere indifferent word, to be interpreted according to the sense in which αἱ γλ . and ἡ προφ . were σημεῖα , there can be no objection to it here: and the uniformity of construction seems to require it.
	Both here and above,  τοῖς ἀπίστ . and the other are datives  commodi  for , not ‘  to ,’  the unbelieving . ἡ προφητεία  was a sign  to the unbelieving, see 1 Corinthians 14:24-25 .
	Prophecy, i.e.  inspired and intelligent exposition of the word and doctrine , was eminently  for believers, but, as below, would be also profitable  to unbelievers, furnishing a token that God was truly among his assembled servants.