 13. ]  Hortatory inference from the foregoing examples . There is some difficulty in the construction of this verse.  προσευχ  .   ἵνα διερμ . is rendered by Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Erasm., Beza, Calv., Grot., Estius, Wetst., Bleek, Rückert, Olsh., al., ‘  pray that he may interpret .’ But the next verse shews that this is untenable. For the act of προσεύχεσθαι γλώσσῃ is there introduced in strict logical connexion with this verse, so as to shew that the προσευχέσθω here must have the same meaning as there, viz., that of  praying in a tongue , openly in the church. Seeing this, Luther, Rosenm., al., render it, ‘let.…  so pray, that he may interpret :’ i.e. ‘not pray, unless he can interpret.’ But this rendering of ἵνα is hardly allowable even where οὕτω is expressed, see note on ch. 1 Corinthians 9:24 . The knot of the difficulty lies in the relation of ἵνα to verbs of this kind. It may be doubted whether in such expressions as προσεύχεσθαι ἵνα (see reff.), the conj. ever represents the mere  purport of the prayer, as in our “to pray, that.” The idea of  purpose is inseparably bound up in this particle, and can be traced wherever it is used. Thus προσεύχ . ἵνα seems always to convey the meaning, “to pray,  in order that .” At the same time,  prayer being a  direct seeking of the fulfilment of the purpose on account of which we pray, not, like many other actions,  indirectly connected with it, the  purport and  purpose become  compounded in the expression . This will be illustrated by γρηγορεῖτε κ . προσεύχεσθε , ἵνα μὴ εἰσέλθητε εἰς πειρασμόν : where it is plain enough that ἵνα μή represents the  ulterior object of γρηγορεῖτε and,  now that it is joined with γρηγορεῖτε , of προσεύχεσθε ; but had it been  merely , προσεύχεσθε ἵνα μὴ κ . τ . λ ., the above confusion would have occurred. Now this confusion it is, which makes the words προσευχέσθω ἵνα διερμηνεύῃ so difficult. Obviously, the προσευχέσθω is not  merely used to express a  seeking by prayer of the gift of interpretation, on account of the sense in the next verse: but as plainly, there is in προσευχέσθω  a sense which passes on to ἵνα διερμηνεύῃ . The rendering of Meyer and De Wette, ‘  pray, with a view to interpret (what he has spoken in a tongue),’ is unobjectionable, but does not give any reason for the choice of  προσευχέσθω , any more than εὐχαριστείτω , or the like. I believe the true rendering to be pointed out by the distinction in the next verse. If a man prays  in a tongue , his  spirit prays , but his  understanding is barren . This prayer of  his spirit is, the intense direction of his will and affections to God, accompanied by the utterance of sounds to him unintelligible. ‘  Let then him who speaks with a tongue, pray , when he does pray,  with an earnest striving (in this prayer of his spirit)  after the gift of interpretation .’ The meaning might be more strictly given thus in English:  wherefore let him who speaketh with a tongue, in his prayer (or,  when praying), strive that  he may interpret .