25. At that time Jesus answered and
	said—We are not to understand by this, that the previous
	discourse had been concluded, and that this is a record only of
	something said about the same period. For the connection is most
	close, and the word "answered"—which, when there is no
	one to answer, refers to something just before said, or rising in the
	mind of the speaker in consequence of something said—confirms this.
	What Jesus here "answered" evidently was the melancholy
	results of His ministry, lamented over in the foregoing verses. It is
	as if He had said, "Yes; but there is a brighter side to the
	picture; even in those who have rejected the message of eternal life,
	it is the pride of their own hearts only which has blinded them, and
	the glory of the truth does but the more appear in their inability to
	receive it. Nor have all rejected it even here; souls thirsting for
	salvation have drawn water with joy from the wells of salvation; the
	weary have found rest; the hungry have been filled with good things,
	while the rich have been sent empty away." 
	I thank thee—rather, "I
	assent to thee." But this is not strong enough. The idea of
	"full" or "cordial" concurrence is
	conveyed by the preposition. The thing expressed is adoring
	acquiescence, holy satisfaction with that law of the divine procedure
	about to be mentioned. And as, when He afterwards uttered the same
	words, He "exulted in spirit" (see on  :-), probably He did the same now, though not recorded. 
	O Father, Lord of heaven and
	earth—He so styles His Father here, to signify that from Him of
	right emanates all such high arrangements. 
	because thou hast hid these
	things—the knowledge of these saving truths. 
	from the wise and prudent—The
	former of these terms points to the men who pride themselves upon
	their speculative or philosophical attainments; the latter to the men
	of worldly shrewdness—the clever, the sharp-witted, the men of
	affairs. The distinction is a natural one, and was well understood.
	(See 1 Corinthians 1:19, c.). But why had
	the Father hid from such the things that belonged to their peace, and
	why did Jesus so emphatically set His seal to this arrangement?
	Because it is not for the offending and revolted to speak or to
	speculate, but to listen to Him from whom we have broken loose, that
	we may learn whether there be any recovery for us at all and if there
	be, on what principles—of what nature—to what ends. To bring our
	own "wisdom and prudence" to such questions is impertinent
	and presumptuous; and if the truth regarding them, or the glory of
	it, be "hid" from us, it is but a fitting retribution, to
	which all the right-minded will set their seal along with Jesus. 
	hast revealed them unto
	babes—to babe-like men; men of unassuming docility, men who,
	conscious that they know nothing, and have no right to sit in
	judgment on the things that belong to their peace, determine simply
	to "hear what God the Lord will speak." Such are well
	called "babes." (See Hebrews 5:13;
	1 Corinthians 13:11; 1 Corinthians 14:20,
	&c.).