7. old leaven—The remnant of
	the "old" ( :-) heathenish and natural corruption. The image is taken
	from the extreme care of the Jews in searching every corner of their
	houses, and "purging out" every particle of leaven from the
	time of killing the lamb before the Passover (Deuteronomy 16:3;
	Deuteronomy 16:4). So Christians are
	continually to search and purify their hearts (Psalms 139:23;
	Psalms 139:24). 
	as ye are
	unleavened—normally, and as far as your Christian calling is
	concerned: free from the leaven of sin and death (Psalms 139:24- :). Paul often grounds exhortations on the assumption of
	Christian professors' normal state as realized (Romans 6:3;
	Romans 6:4) [ALFORD].
	Regarding the Corinthian Church as the Passover "unleavened
	lump" or mass, he entreats them to correspond in fact with this
	their normal state. "For Christ our Passover (Exodus 12:5-11;
	Exodus 12:21-23; John 1:29)
	has been (English Version, "is") sacrificed
	for us"; that is, as the Jews began the days of
	unleavened bread with the slaying of the Passover lamb, so, Christ
	our Passover having been already slain, let there be no leaven
	of evil in you who are the "unleavened lump." Doubtless he
	alludes to the Passover which had been two or three weeks before kept
	by the Jewish Christians (John 1:29- :): the Gentile Christians probably also refraining from
	leavened bread at the love-feasts. Thus the Jewish Passover naturally
	gave place to our Christian Easter. The time however, of keeping
	feast (metaphorical; that is, leading the Christian life of
	joy in Christ's finished work, compare John 1:29- :) among us Christians, corresponding to the Jewish Passover,
	is not limited, as the latter, to one season, but is ALL our time;
	for the transcendent benefits of the once-for-all completed sacrifice
	of our Passover Lamb extends to all the time of our lives and
	of this Christian dispensation; in no part of our time is the leaven
	of evil to be admitted. 
	For even—an additional
	reason, besides that in 1 Corinthians 5:6,
	and a more cogent one for purging out every leaven of evil; namely,
	that Christ has been already sacrificed, whereas the old leaven is
	yet unremoved, which ought to have been long ago purged out.