 12 14 .] CONCLUSION.  By Silvanus the faithful brother (there seems to be no reason for distinguishing this Silvanus from the companion of St. Paul and Timotheus, mentioned in 1 Thessalonians 1:1 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:1 ; 2 Corinthians 1:19 , and known by the name of Silas in the Acts. See further in Prolegomena, § iv. 19),  as I reckon (  ὡς λογίζομαι belongs most naturally to τοῦ πιστοῦ ἀδελφοῦ , not to δι ʼ ὀλίγων which follows: and indicates the Apostle’s judgment concerning Silvanus, given, not in any disparagement of him, nor indicating, as De W. and Bengel, that he was not known to St. Peter, but as fortifying him, in his mission to the churches addressed, with the Apostle’s recommendation, over and above the acquaintance which the readers may already have had with him),  I have written (the epistolary aor. See reff.)  to you (  ὑμῖν is taken by some, as E. V., Luther, Steiger, al., as dependent on πιστοῦ , which is harsh, and leaves ἔγραψα without any object of address)  in (by means of, as my vehicle of conveying my meaning)  few words (Erasm., Grot., Pott, al. fancy that this ἔγρ . δι ʼ ὀλίγων refers to the second Epistle: but see 2 Peter 3:1 . On δι ʼ ὀλίγων , cf. Hebrews 13:22 . It perhaps may here refer to some more copious instructions which Silvanus was to give them by word of mouth: or may serve to fix their attention more pointedly on that which had been thus concisely said),  exhorting (such in the main is the character of the Epistle)  and giving my testimony (the  ἐπί in ἐπιμαρτυρῶν indicates merely the direction of the testimony, not as Bengel, “testimonium jam per Paulum et Silam audierant pridem: Petrus  insuper testatur ”)  that this (of which I have written to you; see below)  is (the inf.  εἶναι belongs to both παρακαλῶν and ἐπιμαρτυρῶν )  the true grace (not “doctrina evangelii” as Gerh., nor “state of grace” as De Wette, but simply “grace” ch. 1 Peter 1:2 , as testified by the preaching of the Apostles to be covenanted and granted to them by God. This identification of the preached and written message with the true mind of God towards man, is not uncommon with our Apostle: e. g., ch. 1 Peter 1:12 ; 1 Peter 1:25 ( 1Pe 2:10 ; 1Pe 2:25 ). The reason of this was not any difference, as some would have us believe, between the teachings of St. Peter and St. Paul, but the difficulty presented to the readers in the fact of the fiery trial of sufferings which they were passing through)  of God, in which stand ye (the construction is pregnant; into which being admitted, stand in it. On every account, we are bound to read  στῆτε , not ἑστήκατε , which has apparently come in from the similar ἐν ᾗ ( ᾧ ) ἑστήκατε in reff. Every reason which Wiesinger gives against στῆτε , is in fact a reason for it. στῆτε εἰς is, he says, evidently wrong, because the readers were already in the grace: I answer, and consequently it was corrected to what seemed right: εἰς ἣν στῆτε , he says further, would not fit the context: and consequently, we may reply, the temptation would be stronger to correct it. The idea of its having been an emendation to suit παρακαλῶν is simply absurd; that participle referring back to the contents of the Epistle, not requiring any justification in this sentence; as any, even the dullest copyist, must see. As it stands, it is a short and earnest exhortation, containing in it in fact the pith of what has been said by way of exhortation in the whole Epistle).