 5 .]  In like manner (i. e. ‘mutatis mutandis,’ in your turn: see ch. 1 Peter 3:7 ; with the same recognition of your position and duties),  ye younger, be subject to the elders (in what sense are we to take  νεώτεροι and  πρεσβύτεροι here? One part of our answer will be very clear: that πρεσβύτεροι must be in the same sense as above, viz., in its official historical sense of presbyters in the church. This being so, we have now some clue to the meaning of νεώτεροι : viz. that it cannot mean younger in age merely, though this, as regarded  men , would generally be so, but that as the name πρεσβύτεροι had an official sense, of superintendents of the church, so νεώτεροι like-wise, of those who were the ruled, the disciples, of the πρεσβύτεροι . Thus taken, it will mean here, the rest of the church, as opposed to the πρεσβύτεροι . Nor will this meaning, as Weiss maintains, p. 344, be at all impugned by  πάντες δέ which follows, inasmuch as that clearly embraces both classes, πρεσβύτεροι and νεώτεροι . As Wiesinger well says, The Apostle is teaching what the πρεσβ . owe to the church, what the church to them, what all without distinction to one another. Weiss would understand these νεώτεροι as he does in Acts 5:6 , and νεανίσκοι ib. Acts 5:10 (but see note there), young persons, who were to subserve the ordinary wants of the elders in the ministration. Luther, Calv., Gerhard, al., and more recently De Wette and Huther, take νεώτεροι for the younger members of the congregation: in which case, as most of these confess, we must enlarge the sense of πρεσβυτέροις here, which in my mind is a fatal objection to the view. The above interpretation, that νεώτεροι are the rest of the congregation as distinguished from the πρεσβύτεροι , is that of Bed [31] , Est., Benson, Pott, al., and of Wiesinger):  yea (the E. V. happily thus gives the sense of the δέ : q. d. Why should I go on giving these specific injunctions, when one will cover them all?)  all gird on humility to one another (an allusion to our Lord’s action of girding Himself with a napkin in the servile ministration of washing the disciples’ feet: of which He himself said, καὶ ὑμεῖς ὀφείλετε ἀλλήλων νίπτειν τοὺς πόδας . ὑπόδειγμα γὰρ ἔδωκα ὑμῖν ἵνα καθὼς ἐγὼ ἐποίησα ὑμῖν καὶ ὑμεῖς ποιῆτε . The impression made on St. Peter by this proof of his Master’s love is thus beautifully shewn. As to the details: the ὑποτασσόμενοι of the rec. has probably been a clumsy gloss to help out the construction of the dat. commodi ἀλλήλοις .  -  ἐγκομβώσασθε is variously interpreted. Its derivation is from κόμβος , a string or band attached to a garment to tie it with: hence κόμβωμα , an apron, through κομβόω , to gird or tie round; and thus ἐγκομβόω , to gird on, and - όομαι , to gird on one’s self. ἐγκόμβωμα is used for a kind of girdle by Longus, Pastoralia ii. 33, and Pollux iv. 119. See in Wetst. The Schol. in ms. 16 says, ἀντὶ τοῦ ἐνειλήσασθε , περιβάλεσθε , ἢ ἀναστείλασθε . In Hesych., the κομβολύτης is explained to be a βαλαντιότομος . There is a very complete and learned dissertation on this passage in the Fritz-schiorum Opuscula, pp. 259 275, containing all the literature of the subject. The result there is, “omnes lectores, oratione in eos conversa, admonet, ut quemadmodum servi heris se modeste submittunt (the ἐγκόμβωμα being a servile garment or apron), ita unus alteri tanquam minor majori cedens obsequiosum modestumque se præbeat: ‘omnes autem lubenter alter alteri cedentes modestiam vobis pro servorum encombomate incingite.’ ” This is perhaps going too far, to seek the meaning of the verb altogether in its derivative: but the reference is at least possible. For more particulars consult the dissertation itself, and Wetstein’s note.
	 [31] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	Some put a comma after ἀλλήλοις , and join πάντες δὲ ἀλλήλοις to the preceding, ‘yea, all of you (be subject) to one another.’ But this is unnecessary, the dative being in this sense abundantly justified: cf. Romans 14:6 ; 1Co 14:22 ; 2 Corinthians 5:13 . Winer, § 31. 4.  b ):  because (reason why you should gird on humility)  God (the citation agrees verbatim with Jam 4:6 )  opposeth Himself to the proud (“reliqua peccata fugiunt Deum, sola super-bia se opponit Deo; reliqua peccata deprimunt hominem, sola superbia erigit eum contra Deum. Inde etiam Deus superbis vicissim se opponit,” Gerhard. The student will remember the saying of Artabanus to Xerxes, Herod. vii. 10, ὁρᾷς τὰ ὑπερέχοντα ζῶα ὡς κεραυνοῖ ὁ θεός , οὐδὲ ἐᾷ φαντάζεσθαι , τὰ δὲ σμικρὰ οὐδέν μιν κνίζει ; … φιλέει γὰρ ὁ θεὸς τὰ ὑπερέχοντα πάντα κολούειν ),  but giveth grace to the humble (  ταπεινοῖς here in a subjective sense, the lowly-minded, those who by their humility are low. “Humilitas est vas gratiarum,” Aug [32] in Gerh.).
	 [32]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430