 10 .]  But (q. d. however you may be able to apprehend the consolation which I have last propounded to you, one thing is sure: or as Bengel, “vos tantum vigilate et resistite hosti: cætera Deus præstabit”)  the God of all grace (who is the Source of all spiritual help for every occasion: see reff.)  who called you (which was the first proof of His grace towards you)  unto (with a view to; ‘consolationis argumentum:’ He who has begun grace with a view to glory, will not cut off grace till it be perfected in glory. Cf. 1 Thessalonians 2:12 ; 2Th 2:14 )  His eternal glory in Christ Jesus (  ἐν χρ  .   Ἰησ  . belongs to καλέσας , which has since been defined by ὑμᾶς εἰς τ . αἰ . αὐ . δόξ . Christ Jesus is the element in which that calling took place. The words cannot, as Calov., al., be joined with what follows),  when ye have suffered a little while (these words belong to what has gone before, ὁ καλέσας ὑμᾶς κ . τ . λ ., not to what follows, as is decisively shewn by the consideration that all four verbs must belong to acts of God on them  in this life , while these sufferings would be still going on. The  ὀλίγον παθόντας expresses the  condition of their calling to glory in Christ, viz. after having suffered for a short time.  παθόντας , as in all cases of an aor. part. connected with a future verb, is to be taken in the strictness of its aoristic meaning as a futurus exactus: the παθήματα are over when the δόξα comes in),  shall Himself (  αὐτός , solemn and emphatic: “ostendit enim Apostolus ex eodem gratiæ fonte et primam ad gloriam cœlestem vocationem et ultimam hujus beneficii consummationem provenire,” Gerhard)  perfect (  you ) (see ref. Heb. and note: “ne remaneat in vobis defectus,” Beng.),  shall confirm (establish you firmly, so as to be στερεοὶ τῇ πίστει : “ne quid vos labefactet,” Beng.),  shall strengthen (the word  σθενόω belongs to later Greek),  shall ground (  you ) (fix you as on a foundation, “ut superetis omnem vim adversam. Digna  Petro oratio. Confirmat fratres suos,” Bengel. Cf. Luke 22:32 , σὺ ποτὲ ἐπιστρέψας στήρισον τοὺς ἀδελφούς σου : and 2 Timothy 2:19 , ὁ στερεὸς θεμέλιος τοῦ θεοῦ ἕστηκεν ):