 3 .]  nor yet as lording it over (the  κατα as in reff. and in καταδυναστεύω James 2:6 , κατακαυχάομαι Romans 11:18 , James 2:13 , καταμαρτυρέω Matthew 26:62 , carries the idea of hostility, and therefore, when joined with  κυριεύω , of oppression; of using the rights of a κύριος for the diminution of the ruled and the exaltation of self. Christian rulers of the church are προϊστάμενοι (1 Thessalonians 5:12 ; Rom 12:8 ), ἡγούμενοι ( Luk 22:26 ), but not κυριεύοντες ( Luk 22:25-26 ). One is their κύριος , and they are His διάκονοι )  the portions (  entrusted to you ) (so is  κλῆρος understood by (not Cyril, as commonly cited: see below) Bed [29] apparently, Erasm. (“gregem qui cuique forte contigit gubernandus”), Estius (“gregis Dominici portiones, quæ singulis episcopis pascendæ et regendæ velut sortito obtigerunt.”), Calov., Bengel, Wolf, Steiger, De Wette, Huther, Wiesinger, al. And so Theophanes, Homil. xii. p. 70 (in Suicer), addresses his hearers, ἡμεῖς δέ , ὦ κλῆρος ἐμός : cf. also Acts 17:4 (of which I do not see why De Wette should say that it has nothing to do with the present consideration). On the other hand, 2. ‘  the heritage of God ’ is taken as the meaning by Cyril (on Isaiah 3:12 (vol. iii. p. 63), not 1 Peter 1:6 , as commonly cited by all, copying one from another. But the passage is not satisfactory. In the Latin, we read “non ut dominentur in clero,  id est, populo qui sors Domini est :” but the words in italics have no representatives in the Greek, which simply quotes this verse without comment), Calv. (“quum universum ecclesiæ corpus hæreditas sit domini, totidem sunt veluti prædia, quorum culturam singulis presbyteris assignat”), Beza (and consequently E. V.), Grot., Benson, al. But the objections to this are, that κλῆροι could not be taken for portions of κλῆρος , and that θεοῦ could in this case hardly be wanting. Again, 3. some, principally R.-Cath. expositors, have anachronistically supposed κλῆροι to mean the  clergy : so even Œc., κλῆρον τὸ ἱερὸν σύστημα καλεῖ , ὥσπερ καὶ νῦν ἡμεῖς , and Jer [30] , Epist. ad Nepot. (Leviticus 7:0 , vol. i. p. 262): so Corn. a-Lap. (“jubet ergo S. Petrus Episcopis et Pastoribus, ne inferioribus clericis imperiose dominari velint”), Justiniani (doubtfully: “sive P. de fideli populo universo, sive de ordine ecclesiastico loquatur”), Feuardentius, Revelation 4:0 . Dodwell understood it of the  church-goods : which view has nothing to recommend it, and is refuted by Wolf, Curæ, h. l. That the first meaning is the right one, is decided by τοῦ ποιμνίου below: see there),  but becoming (it is well, where it can be done, to keep the distinctive meaning of γίνομαι . This more frequently happens in affirmative than in negative sentences: cf. μὴ γίνου ἄπιστος ἀλλὰ πιστός , John 20:27 , where this distinctive meaning can be well brought out in the latter clause, but not in the former)  patterns of the flock (the tyrannizing could only apply to the portion over which their authority extended, but the good example would be seen and followed by the whole church: hence τῶν κλήρων in the prohibition, but τοῦ ποιμνίου in the exhortation.  τύποι , because the flock will look to you: “pastor ante oves vadit.” Gerh. The Commentators quote from Bernard, “Monstrosa res est gradus summus et animus infimus, sedes prima et vita ima, lingua magniloqua et vita otiosa, sermo multus et fructus nullus:” and from Gregory the Great, “Informis est vita pastoris, qui modo calicem Domini signat, modo talos agitat: qui in avibus cœli ludit, canes instigat,” &c.);
	 [29] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [30]  Jerome , fl. 378 420