 2 .]  tend ([or  keep ] the aor. stronger than the pres. in the imperative: gathering together the whole ποιμαίνειν into one ποίμαναι as the act of the life)  the flock (compare the injunction given to St. Peter himself in John 21:16 , ποίμαινε τὰ πρόβατά μου . “Quam ergo ovium pascendarum curam a Christo sibi noverat commendatam, in ejus societatem presbyteros vocat,” Gerhard. The verb includes in one word the various offices of a shepherd; the leading, feeding, heeding: “pasce mente, pasce ore, pasce opere, pasce animi oratione, verbi exhortatione, exempli exhibitione,” Bernard, in Wiesinger. Our only, but not sufficient, word is, ‘tending’)  of God (cf. Acts 20:28 . The similitude is among the commonest in Scripture: cf. Jeremiah 3:15 ; Jeremiah 23:1-4 ; Ezekiel 34:2 ff.; John 10:11 ff.)  which is among you (  τὸ ἐν ὑμῖν is taken by Erasm. and Calvin to mean “quantum in vobis est:” and no doubt this is possible; yet it sounds more Latin than Greek, which would rather perhaps be τὸ καθ ʼ ὑμᾶς , or τὸ ἐξ ὑμῶν , as Wies. observes. But the sense is the greatest objection: “Petrus noverat sibi a Christo non esse dictum, pasce quantum in te est, oves meas, sed absolute et simpliciter, pasce,” as Gerhard. And the ἐν ὑμῖν above seems decisive against this meaning. But even then we find various renderings: as “vobis pro vestra parte commissum,” Bengel, as εἶναι or κεῖσθαι ἔν τινι , and so Luther (  die Heerde, so euch befohlen ist ), Steiger, al.: Huther says, ἐν signifies here, as elsewhere also, inner communion, not merely local presence: “the flock which is under your charge.” Gerhard gives “qui vobiscum est, videlicet cum quo unum corpus, una ecclesia estis,” to which I do not see that Huther has any right to object, as he does. But the mere local meaning is by far the best. He orders them to feed the flock of God, not generally, nor œcumenically, but locally, as far as concerned that part of it found among them) [,  overseeing (  it ) (the word  ἐπισκοποῦντες , which tallies very much with St. Peter’s participial style, has perhaps been removed for ecclesiastical reasons, for fear πρεσβύτεροι should be supposed to be, as they really were, ἐπίσκοποι : “ipsum episcopatus nomen et officium exprimere voluit,” Calv.)]  not constrainedly (‘coacte:’ as Bengel, “necessitas incumbit, 1 Corinthians 9:16 , sed hujus sensum absorbet lubentia. Id valet et in suscipiendo et in gerendo munere. Non sine reprehensione sunt pastores qui, si res integra esset, mallent quidvis potius esse:” Bed [24] , “Coacte pascit gregem Dei, qui propter rerum temporalium penuriam non habens unde vivat, idcirco prædicat Evangelium ut de Evangelio vivere possit.” And then, as Calv., “Dum agimus ad necessitatis præscriptum, lente et frigide in opere progredimur”)  but willingly (not exactly, as Bed [25] , “supernæ mercedis intuitu,” but out of love to the great Shepherd, and to the flock. The addition in [26] [27] al., κατὰ θεόν , is curious, and not easily accounted for. It certainly does not, as Huther says, clear up the thought, but rather obscures it. The expression is seldom found; and never in the sense here required. Cf. Romans 8:27 ; 2 Corinthians 7:9 ff.),  nor yet (  μηδέ brings in a climax each time)  with a view to base gain (“propter quæstum et terrena commoda,” as Bede [28] Cf. Isaiah 56:11 ; Jeremiah 6:13 ; Jeremiah 8:10 ; Ezekiel 34:2-3 , &c. and Tit 1:7 )  but earnestly (as 2 Corinthians 12:14 (cf. προθυμία , 2 Corinthians 8:11 ; 2Co 9:2 ), prompted by a desire not of gain, but of good to the flock; ready and enthusiastic, as (the illustration is Bede’s) the children of Israel, and even the workmen, gave their services eagerly and gratuitously to build the tabernacle of old):
	 [24] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [25] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [26] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [27] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .
	 [28] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.