 1 .]  Elders therefore among you I exhort (any who are in the situation of πρεσβύτεροι , anarthrous: the omission of τούς after πρεσβ . is not surprising in St. Peter’s style, but has apparently led to the insertion of the art. by those who did not advert to this peculiarity. The designation here is evidently an official one ( 1Pe 5:2 ), but at the same time reference to age is included: cf. νεώτεροι , 1 Peter 5:5 . The  οὖν takes up the above exhortation, ch. 1Pe 4:19 )  who am a fellow-elder (with you: “Hortatio mutua inter æquales et collegas inprimis valet,” Beng.),  and witness of the sufferings of Christ (  μάρτυς , not in the sense of Acts 1:8 ; Acts 1:22 ; Acts 2:32 ; Acts 10:39 , al. (De Wette, al.), a witness to testify to by words, nor as Hebrews 12:1 ; Acts 22:20 ; Revelation 2:13 ; Revelation 17:6 , a witness, in bearing about in his own person (Luth., Calv., Huther), nor both of these together (“Petrus et viderat ipsum Dominum patientem, et nunc passiones sustinebat,” Bengel); but in the sense of an  eye-witness , on the ground of which his apostolic testimony rested: q. d. I who say to you χριστὸς ἔπαθεν σαρκί , say this of sufferings which my own eyes saw. Thus this clause links on the following exhortation to the preceding portion of the Epistle concerning Christian suffering, and tends to justify the οὖν . Observe that it is not ὁ καὶ μάρτυς , but συμπρεσβ . κ . μάρτυς are under the same art.: q. d. “the one among the συμπρεσβύτεροι who witnessed the sufferings of Christ”),  who am also a partaker of the glory which is about to be revealed (I prefer to take this as an allusion to our Lord’s own words John 13:36 , ὕστερον ἀκολουθήσεις μοι , rather than regard it as alluding to the Transfiguration, as some (e. g. Dr. Burton), or to the certainty that those who suffer with Him will be glorified with Him (see above on this view of μάρτυς ). As bearing that promise, he came to them with great weight of authority as an exhorter having seen the sufferings of which he speaks, and being himself an heir of that glory to which he points onwards), 