 9 .]  whom resist (see ref. James)  firm in the faith (dat. of reference, as σχήματι εὑρεθεὶς ὡς ἄνθρωπος Philippians 2:8 , τέκνα φύσει ὀργῆς Ephesians 2:3 , &c.),  knowing (  being aware : it is an encouragement against their giving way under Satan’s attacks, to remember that they do not stand alone against him; that others are, as Gerhard expresses it, not only παθημάτων συμμέτοχοι , but in “precibus et pugna contra Satanam σύμμαχοι ”)  that the very same sufferings (this construction, a gen. after ὁ αὐτός , is not elsewhere found in N. T. In it, as in the dat. construction in reff., the adj. is made into a subst. to express more completely the identity. It is (see Winer, § 34. 2) much as when an adj. is made into a subst. governing a gen.: e. g. τὸ ἀμετάθετον τῆς βουλῆς Hebrews 6:17 , τὸ ὑπερέχον τῆς γνώσεως Philippians 3:8 , τὸ πιστὸν τῆς πολιτείας Thuc. i. 68, τὸ ὑπερβάλλον τῆς λύπης Plato, Phædr. 240 A)  are being accomplished in (  the case of : the dat. of reference, as in γίνεσθαι ὑμῖν and similar phrases. Much unnecessary difficulty has been found in the word  ἐπιτελεῖσθαι . It has its usual N. T. meaning of ‘accomplish,’ ‘complete,’ as in reff. and Philippians 1:6 , al.; these sufferings were being accomplished, their full measure attained, according to the will of God, and by the appointment of God, in, with reference to, in the case of, the ἀδελφότης . The Dative must not be regarded as = a gen. with ὑπό : but there is another way of taking it, viz. as dependent on τὰ αὐτά , making ἐπιτελεῖσθαι middle: “knowing that ye are accomplishing the same sufferings with” &c. This is defended by Harless; but in this case we should certainly expect ὑμᾶς to be inserted, as αὐτόν in Luke 4:41 , and σεαυτόν in Rom 2:19 )  your brotherhood (ref.)  in the world (  ἐν κόσμῳ , not to direct attention to another brotherhood not in the world, as Huther; but as identifying their state with yours: who, like yourselves, are in the world, and thence have, like yourselves, to expect such trials).