Verse Romans 5:14. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses — This supposes, as Dr. Taylor very properly observes:-1. That sin was in the world from Adam to Moses.2. That law was not in the world from Adam to Moses during the space of about 2500 years; for, after Adam's transgression, that law was abrogated; and, from that time, men were either under the general covenant of grace given to Adam or Noah, or under that which was specially made with Abraham.3. That, therefore, the sins committed were not imputed unto them to death, for they did not sin after the similitude of Adam's transgression; that is, they did not, like him, transgress a law, or rule of action, to which death, as the penalty, was annexed. And yet-4. Death reigned over mankind during the period between Adam and Moses; therefore men did not die for their own transgressions, but in consequence of Adam's one transgression.Who is the figure of him that was to come. — Adam was the figure, τυπος, the type, pattern, or resemblance of him who was to come; i.e. of the Messiah. The correspondence between them appears in the following particulars:-1. Through him, as its spring and fountain, sin became diffused through the world, so that every man comes into the world with sinful propensities: for by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, Romans 5:12. Through Christ, as its spring and fountain, righteousness becomes diffused through the earth; so that every man is made partaker of a principle of grace and truth; for he is the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world, John 1:9.2. As in Adam all die; so in Christ shall all be made alive, 1 Corinthians 15:22. For, since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead, 1 Corinthians 15:21.3. As in or through Adam guilt came upon all men, so, through Christ, the free gift comes upon all men unto justification of life, Romans 5:18. These alone seem to be the instances in which a similitude exists between Adam and Christ.