 1.   τῶν κέδρων ] This is evidently a Greek corruption of the Hebrew ( קִדְרוֹן ); and coincides with the LXX in ref. and 3 Kings John 15:13 , where however [239] (not [240] ) has τοῦ κέδρων . If there were cedars in the ravine, the corruption would be easily accounted for. Suidas, under Ἰαβίν , quotes Ps. 82:9 thus, Ἰαβὶν ἐν τῷ χειμάῤῥῳ τῶν κισσῶν . Instances of the practice of changing foreign names into other words bearing sense in the new language are common in all countries. This being so, it is perhaps safer to follow the best MSS., even against our own conviction, that St. John can hardly have written τῶν κέδρων . Josephus calls it χειμ . κεδρῶνος , or φάραγξ κεδρῶνος . Antt. viii. 1. 5; ix. 7. 3: see 2 Kings 23:6 ; 2 Kings 23:12 .
	 [239] The Codex Boreeli, once possessed by John Boreel, Dutch ambassador in London under James I. It was lost for many years, till found at Arnheim by Heringa, a professor at Utrecht. It is now in the public library at the latter place. Heringa wrote a dissertation on it, so copious as to serve for an edition of the codex itself. This dissertation was published by Vinke in 1843. Contains the four Gospels with many lacunæ, which have increased since Wetstein’s time. Tischendorf in 1841 examined the codex and compared it with Heringa’s collation. Tischendorf assigns it to the  ninth century: Tregelles, to the  tenth .
	 [240] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	The ravine in the bottom of which flows the Kidron, is to the East of Jerusalem, between the city and the Mount of Olives.
	 κῆπος ] Lücke suggests that the owner of this garden may have been friendly to (or a disciple of?) Jesus. It was called Gethsemane, Matt., Mark.
	Traditions as to its site are, as usual, various. A square plot of ground in the depth of the ravine is now usually pointed out, and seems to have been fixed on at the time when the empress Helena visited Jerusalem, A.D. 326. Euseb. says Gethsemane was  at the Mount of Olives: Jerome,  at the foot of the mount. The language of Luk 21:37 leads to a belief that it may have been higher up the mount. Robinson, i. 346.