 37. ] It is best to take  οὐκοῦν β  .   εἶ σύ as interrogative,  Art Thou then a King? on account of what follows.
	 σύ  , emphatic and sarcastic.
	 σὺ λέγεις ] A formula neither classical nor found in the LXX, but frequent in the Rabbinical writings: see Schöttgen, Hor. Hebr. on Matthew 26:25 . It seems best to punctuate at λέγεις , and regard  ὅτι as the reason for the affirmation conveyed in σὺ λέγεις . This agrees best with the order of the words, β . εἰμ . [ ἐγώ ], and with the continued affirmation which follows. The first ἐγώ , if genuine, refers to Pilate’s σύ .
	 ἐγὼ  …   τῇ ἀληθείᾳ ] Our Lord here preached the Truth of his mission, upholding that side of it best calculated for the doubting philosophic mind of the day, of which Pilate was a partaker. He declares the unity and objectivity of Truth; and that Truth must come from above, and must come through a Person sent by God, and that that Person was Himself.
	 ἐγώ  , both times emphatic, and majestically set (see above) against the preceding scornful  σύ  .
	 εἰς τοῦτο γεγέννημαι implies that He was  born a King, and that He was born with a definite purpose. The words are a pregnant proof of an Incarnation of the Son of God. This great truth is further expressed by  ἐλήλυθα εἰς τ  .   κ  .: ‘I have been born, but not therein commencing my being I  have come into the world.’ Thus certainly are the words to be understood, and not of his public appearance, his ἀνάδειξις (as Lücke, De Wette), nor as synonymous with γεγέννημαι . It is this saying which began the  fear in Pilate, which the charge of the Jews, ch. John 19:7 , increased.
	 τῇ ἀληθείᾳ  , not τὴν ἀλήθειαν : not ‘the truth,’ so that what He said should be  true , but  to the Truth, in its objective reality: see ch. John 17:17 ; John 17:19 , of which deep saying this is the popular exposition for his present hearer.
	The Lord, besides, sets forth here in the depth of these words, the very idea of all kinghood. The  King is the representative of the truth: the truth of dealing between man and man; the truth of that power, which in its inmost truth belongs to the great and only Potentate, the King of Kings.
	Again, the Lord, the King of manhood and the world, the second Adam, came to testify to the  truth of manhood and the world, which sin and Satan had concealed. This testimony to the Truth is to be the weapon whereby His Kingdom will be spread; ‘every one who is of the truth,’ i.e. here in the most general sense, every one who is a true dealer with his own heart, who has  an ear to hear , ‘of such are my subjects composed: they hear my voice.’ But for the putting this true dealing on its  proper and only ground , see ch. John 8:47 ; John 6:44 .