1. The book of the generation—an
	expression purely Jewish; meaning, "table of the genealogy."
	In Genesis 5:1 the same expression
	occurs in this sense. We have here, then, the title, not of this
	whole Gospel of Matthew, but only of the first seventeen verses. 
	of Jesus Christ—For the
	meaning of these glorious words, see on Genesis 5:1- :; Matthew 1:21. "Jesus,"
	the name given to our Lord at His circumcision (Matthew 1:21- :), was that by which He was familiarly known while on earth.
	The word "Christ"—though applied to Him as a proper name
	by the angel who announced His birth to the shepherds (Matthew 1:21- :), and once or twice used in this sense by our Lord Himself
	(Matthew 23:8; Matthew 23:10;
	Mark 9:41) —only began to be so
	used by others about the very close of His earthly career (Matthew 26:68;
	Matthew 27:17). The full form, "Jesus
	Christ," though once used by Himself in His Intercessory Prayer
	(John 17:3), was never used by
	others till after His ascension and the formation of churches in His
	name. Its use, then, in the opening words of this Gospel (and in
	Matthew 1:17; Matthew 1:18)
	is in the style of the late period when our Evangelist wrote, rather
	than of the events he was going to record. 
	the son of David, the son of
	Abraham—As Abraham was the first from whose family it
	was predicted that Messiah should spring (Matthew 1:18- :), so David was the last. To a Jewish reader,
	accordingly, these behooved to be the two great starting-points of
	any true genealogy of the promised Messiah; and thus this opening
	verse, as it stamps the first Gospel as one peculiarly Jewish, would
	at once tend to conciliate the writer's people. From the nearest of
	those two fathers came that familiar name of the promised Messiah,
	"the son of David" (Matthew 1:18- :), which was applied to Jesus, either in devout
	acknowledgment of His rightful claim to it (Matthew 9:27;
	Matthew 20:31), or in the way of
	insinuating inquiry whether such were the case (see on Matthew 20:31- :; Matthew 12:23).