 3.   νάρδου πιστικῆς ] It seems impossible to assign any certain, or even probable meaning, to  πιστικῆς (a word found here and in John’s narrative only). The Vulg. and the lat. mss.  c ff 2  q render it “  spicati .” The ancient Commentators give us nothing but conjecture. Euthymius and Theophylact interpret it “  genuine: ” καταπεπιστευμένην εἰς καθαρότητα , Euth.; ἄδολον καὶ μετὰ πίστεως κατασκευασθεῖσαν , Theophyl.; ‘  veram et absque dolo ,’ Jerome. Augustine supposes it to refer to some  place from which the nard came. Origen’s comment on the passage is lost. The expression no where occurs in the classics, nor in Clement of Alex., who gives a long account (Pædagog. ii. 8, pp. 76 79 [43] ) of  ointments . The word can therefore hardly signify  any particular kind of ointment technically so called.
	 [43] By these symbols are designated the portions of two ancient MSS., discernible (as also are fragments of Ulphilas’ gothic version) under the later writing of a volume known as the Codex Carolinus in the Ducal Library at Wolfenbüttel. P (GUELPHERBYTANUS A) contains fragments of each of the Gospels. Q (GUELPH. B) fragments of Luke and John. Both are probably of the  sixth century . They were edited by F. A. Knittel in 1762; and, more thoroughly, by Tischendorf in 1860 [1869], Monumenta Sacra, vol. iii. [vi.]
	The modern interpretations of the word are principally of two kinds: the first, agreeing with Euth. and Theophyl., ‘  genuine ,’ ‘  unadulterated; ’ which sense however of the word does not any where else occur. It is used transitively for πειστικός , ‘  persuasive ,’ by Aristotle (Rhet. i. 2), and in some later writers for πιστός , as ὁ πιστικώτατος τῶν θεραπόντων , Cedrenus, Annal., cited by Lücke on John 12:3 . Euseb. also uses the word (Demonstr. Evang. ix. vol. iv. p. 684, ed. Migne), but in the sense of ‘  pertaining to the faith ,’ as his Latin translator renders it, or, as Lücke thinks, perhaps ‘  potable ,’ as a derivative of πιστός (from πίνω ).
	This brings us to the second modern interpretation, which makes πιστικός ‘  liquid ,’ ‘  potable ,’ and derives it as above. There certainly was  a kind of ointment which they drank; for Athenæus (xv. 39, p. 689) quotes from Hicesius, τῶν μύρων ἃ μέν ἐστι χρίματα , ἃ δ ʼ ἀλείμματα . καὶ ῥόδινον μὲν  πρὸς πότον ἐπιτήδειον , ἔτι δὲ μύρσινον , μήλινον · τοῦτο δέ ἐστι καὶ εὐστόμαχον καὶ ληθαργικοῖς χρήσιμον … καὶ ἡ στακτὴ  δ  ʼ   ἐπιτήδειος πρὸς πότον  , ἔτι δὲ  νάρδος . The only objection to this interpretation is, that the word is no where found which however is not so decisive as in the last case, for, as πιστικός from πιστός , ‘faithful,’ so there might be πιστικός from πιστός , ‘potable’ and from being a term confined to dealers in ointments, it might have escaped notice elsewhere.
	Lücke (from whom the substance of this note is derived) seems to incline to Augustine’s conjecture (see above): but then surely the name would be  more common , as ‘balm of Gilead,’ &c.
	The uncertainty being so great, the best rendering would be to leave the word  untranslated , as Jer. Taylor does in his “Life of Christ” (sect. 15): ‘Nard Pistick.’ Bp. Wordsw. sees in the word the mystical sense, that “offerings to Christ should be … the fruits of a lively and loving πίστις , or faith, in Him.”
	 συντρ  .   τὴν ἀλάβ  . can hardly mean only having broken the resin with which the cork was sealed. In ch. Mark 5:4 : John 19:36 ; Revelation 2:27 , the word is used of  breaking , properly so called: and I see no objection to supposing that the ἀλάβαστρον was crushed in the hand, and the ointment thus poured over His head. The feet would then ( Joh 12:3 ) be anointed with what remained on the hands of Mary, or in the broken vase (see note on Luk 7:38 ).