17. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me
	not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father—Old familiarities
	must now give place to new and more awful yet sweeter approaches; but
	for these the time has not come yet. This seems the spirit, at least,
	of these mysterious words, on which much difference of opinion has
	obtained, and not much that is satisfactory said. 
	but go to my
	brethren—(Compare Matthew 28:10;
	Hebrews 2:11; Hebrews 2:17).
	That He had still our Humanity, and therefore "is not ashamed
	to call us brethren," is indeed grandly evidenced by these
	words. But it is worthy of most reverential notice, that we
	nowhere read of anyone who presumed to call Him Brother. "My
	brethren: Blessed Jesus, who are these? Were they not Thy followers?
	yea, Thy forsakers? How dost Thou raise these titles with Thyself! At
	first they were Thy servants; then disciples; a little
	before Thy death, they were Thy friends; now, after Thy
	resurrection, they were Thy brethren. But oh, mercy without
	measure! how wilt Thou, how canst Thou call them brethren
	whom, in Thy last parting, Thou foundest fugitives? Did they not run
	from Thee? Did not one of them rather leave his inmost coat behind
	him than not be quit of Thee? And yet Thou sayest, 'Go, tell My
	brethren! It is not in the power of the sins of our infirmity to
	unbrother us'" [BISHOP
	HALL]. 
	I ascend unto my Father and
	your Father, and to my God and your God—words of incomparable
	glory! Jesus had called God habitually His Father, and on one
	occasion, in His darkest moment, His God. But both are here
	united, expressing that full-orbed relationship which embraces in its
	vast sweep at once Himself and His redeemed. Yet, note well, He says
	not, Our Father and our God. All the deepest of the
	Church fathers were wont to call attention to this, as expressly
	designed to distinguish between what God is to Him and to us—His
	Father essentially, ours not so: our God essentially, His not so: His
	God only in connection with us: our God only in connection with Him.