 The forgoing Principles applied to other Cases,  18-24.
	 And first,  Circumcision.
	 1 Corinthians 7:18.  Was any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised  which, under the persecution of Antiochus, the Jews contrived to accomplish, to conceal their nationality ( 1Ma 1:15 ; Joseph.  Antt. x ii. 5. 1).
	 1 Corinthians 7:19.  Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of  God is everything in religion. It is worthy of notice that the unimportance of both in religion is thrice expressed, and each time in contrast with something essential.  Here,  where the point in question is how to  act,  the essential thing is made  obedience;  in Galatians 5:6, where the point is to have the  foundation  of the Christian life rightly laid, the essential thing is “  faith,  working by love;” in Galatians 6:15, where those are dealt with who think they can “sow to the flesh,” and yet  not “ reap corruption,” the essential thing is the being “a new creature.”
	 1 Corinthians 7:20.  Let each man abide in that calling wherein he is called not his ‘occupation,’ but his ‘condition in life.’ Secondly,  Bond-service.
	 1 Corinthians 7:21.  Wast thou  called being a bond -  servant? care not for it: but if thou canst become free,  use it rather.  Such is the natural sense of the statement, and some of the best expositors so understand it. But looking at the strain of the argument and the strict sense of the words themselves, it has been plausibly argued that the sense must be, ‘nay, even if thou mayest be made free, use it  (i.e.  your state of slavery) rather.’ But if so, why did the apostle express it in this strange way “use it rather"? why did he not say “seek it not,” “be content,” “abide still,” or some similar phrase? And then, only take this last clause parenthetically, as follows: ‘If called as a slave, think not that to serve Christ in that condition is hopeless (though, of course, if thou mayest be made free, that is to be preferred) and the sense will at once be seen to be good, and quite consistent with the strain of the argument. This sense, too, is all the more probable, as the apostle is about to add (1 Corinthians 7:23), “Ye were bought with a price, become not bond-servants of men.”
	 1 Corinthians 7:22.  For he that was called in the Lord, being a bond-servant, is the Lord’s freedman or ‘manumitted slave,’ [1] liberated from the slavery of sin; for “whosoever committeth sin is the   slave of sin” ( Joh 8:34 ; 2 Peter 2:19; 2 Timothy 2:26).
	 [1] ἀ πελεύθερος
	 likewise he that was called, being free, is Christ’s bond-servant.  Thus have these two very dissimilar conditions of life a beautiful meeting - place and bond of union in Christ. Well might it be said (James 1:9-10), “Let the brother of low degree glory in that he is exalted, and the rich in that he is made low” both meeting on the platform of a   common redemption.
	 1 Corinthians 7:23.  Ye were bought with a price; become not bond-servants of men.  This does not mean, Get not into actual slavery, but, ‘Being set inwardly free   at such a   cost, suffer not yourselves to be despoiled of this higher liberty by any party.’
	