 14 16 .]  The harvest.  And I saw, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud (  ἐπί with accus. on first mention, see ch. Rev 4:2 note),  one sitting like to the Son of man (i. e. to Christ, see ch. Rev 1:13 note. This clearly is our Lord Himself, as there),  having upon his head a golden crown (in token of His victory being finally gained: see ch. Rev 19:12 )  and in His hand a sharp sickle. And another angel (besides the three angels before mentioned: no inference can be drawn from this that the Sitter on the cloud is a mere angel)  came out of the temple, crying out in a loud voice to him that sat upon the cloud, Put forth (send = ἀποστέλλειν , ref. Mark. De W.’s objection, that the sitter on the cloud cannot be Christ Himself, because He would not be introduced receiving a command from an angel, may be well answered, as Düsterd., that the angel is only the messenger of the will of God. And I may add what to me makes this reply undoubtedly valid, that the command is one regarding the times and seasons, which the Father hath kept in his own power)  thy sickle (the whole is a remembrance of our Lord’s own saying in ref. Mark: see below)  and reap: because the time to reap is come, because the harvest of the earth (  θερισμός for that which is to be reaped: as in the first ref.)  is dried (perfectly ripe, so that the stalk is dry = παρέστηκεν ὁ θερισμός , Mark 4:29 ; = also the fields being λευκαὶ πρὸς θερισμὸν ἤδη , John 4:35 ; which they can only become by losing their moisture. The distinction in the passages cited by Mr. Elliott from Bernard (“magis siccæ ad ignem quam albæ ad messem”), and Pope Gregory X. (“agerque potius arescere videatur ad ignem, quam albescere inveniatur ad messem”) does not seem really to exist. The passage of Hermas, book iii. sim. 3, 4; Luke 23:31 ; John 15:6 , do not apply; trees, and not grain, being there spoken of).  And he that sat upon the cloud put in (reff.)  his sickle upon (into, from above)  the earth, and the earth was reaped (to what does this harvest refer? Is it the ingathering of the wicked, or of the saints, or of both together? Each of these has examples in Scripture symbolism. The first, in Jeremiah 51:33 , where it is said of Babylon, “It is time to thresh her, yet a little while and the time of her harvest is come:” and as appears, Joel 3:13 , though the reference seems rather there to be to the vintage, and the LXX render קָצִיר τρυγητός : the second, in Matthew 9:37-38 ; Mark 4:29 ; Luke 10:2 ; John 4:35 ; the third, in Matthew 13:30 ; Matthew 13:39 . The verdict of Commentators is very much divided. There are circumstances in the context which tell both ways. The parallelism with the vintage, which follows, seems to favour a harvest of the wicked: but then on the other hand, if so, what is the distinction between the two ingatherings? And why do we read of the casting into the winepress of God’s wrath in the second case, and of no corresponding feature in the other? Again, why is the agency so different the Son of man on the white cloud with the golden crown in the one case, the mere angel in the other? Besides, the two gatherings seem quite distinct. The former is over before the other begins. On the whole then, though I would not pronounce decidedly, I must incline to think that the harvest is the ingathering of the saints, God’s harvest, reaped from the earth: described here thus generally, before the vintage of wrath which follows. And thus we have at least these two visions in harmony with the character of this section, which contains the mingled agency and fortunes of the Church and of its enemies; thus this harvest answers to the great preaching of the everlasting gospel above, Revelation 14:6-7 , while the following vintage fulfils the denunciations of wrath on those who worship the image or receive the mark of the beast, Revelation 14:8 ; Revelation 14:11 . And thus too we bring this description into harmony with our Lord’s important parable in Mark 4:29 , where the very words are used of the agency of Christ Himself when the work of grace is ripe, whether in the individual or in the church. But while thus inclined, I will not deny that the other view, and that which unites both, have very much to be said for them).