 6 13 .]  Three Angels appear in midheaven, announcing three details of the period of the coming prophecy. A proclamation of the blessedness of the holy dead . These four announcements form the text and the compendium of the rest of the book: see Prolegg. § v. parr. 57 ff.  And I saw an [  other ]  angel (besides those already mentioned)  flying in mid-heaven (see ch. Rev 8:13 ),  having the everlasting gospel (such and no other is the meaning of εὐαγγέλιον αἰώνιον , notwithstanding that it is anarthrous. From this latter circumstance no argument can be derived in the case of a word which had become so technical an one: even in Romans 1:1 , we have ἀφωρισμένος εἰς εὐαγγέλιον θεοῦ : and in no place in the N. T. does the word occur in any other than the technical sense of “the Gospel.” Besides which, the epithet αἰώνιος here, if nothing else, fixes it to this meaning. Düsterd., wishing to evade the prophetic sense, would render it, a message of good tidings (viz. regarding the Lord’s coming) determined by God from everlasting. And so Grot. (“bonum nuntium jampridem a Deo definitum”), Ewald, Züllig, Hengstb., al. I should have thought such a rendering only needed mentioning to be repudiated. Ch. Revelation 10:7 , which is adduced to justify it, is quite beside the purpose. See there.
	The epithet αἰώνιος , here only applied to the Gospel, belongs to it as from everlasting to everlasting, like Him whose word it is: in contrast to the enemies of God whose destruction is in view)  to preach (see reff.)  to (“  over ,” throughout the extent of, and thus “  upon .” Or we may justify it as in reff., by the signification “with reference to,” “  towards .” Ch. Revelation 10:11 , which is referred to by Düsterd., is not to the point)  those that sit (reff.)  upon the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people (cf. Matthew 24:14 , κηρυχθήσεται τοῦτο τὸ εὐαγγέλιον τῆς βασιλείας ἐν ὅλῃ τῇ οἰκουμένῃ , εἰς μαρτυρίαν πᾶσιν τοῖς ἔθνεσιν · καὶ τότε ἥξει τὸ τέλος ),  saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give Him glory (the message of repentance ever accompanies the hearing of the Gospel among the nations; cf. the first preaching of our Lord and of His Forerunner, Matthew 4:17 ; Matthew 3:2 , and St. Paul’s message to the Thessalonians, 1Th 1:9 ),  because the season of His judgment is come (see the citation from Matthew 24:0 above: the time of the end is close at hand when this great era of Christian missions is inaugurated: see below):  and worship Him who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and fountains of waters (i. e. turn from idols and vanities to serve the living and true God. The division of the waters into the sea and the fountains is one kept up through this prophecy: cf. ch. Revelation 8:8-11 , Rev 16:3-4 ).  And another second angel followed (“Quot res nunciandæ, totidem nuncii,” of Grot., is not strictly correct, the last being announced merely by a voice in heaven. But it belongs to the solemnity of this series of proclamations that a separate place and marked distinction should dignify each of them)  saying, Babylon the great is fallen , [  is fallen ] (aor. of that which is past; only to be expressed in English by a perfect),  which hath given all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication (two things are mingled: 1) the wine of her fornication, of which all nations have drunk, ch. Revelation 17:2 ; Revelation , 2) the wine of the wrath of God which He shall give her to drink, Revelation 14:10 , and ch. Revelation 16:19 . The latter is the retribution for the former: the former turns into the latter: they are treated as one and the same. Grot. and Ewald would render θυμός  venenum ; and Ewald and Züllig understand by οἴνου τοῦ θυμοῦ , vini fervidi, neither of which the words will bear. The whole is from Jeremiah 51:7-8 , where Babylon is a cup in the Lord’s hand of which the nations are made to drink.
	This is the first mention of Babylon, hereafter to be so much spoken of. I reserve treatment of the interpretation till ch. 17: only mentioning by anticipation that Rome, pagan and papal, but principally papal, is intended).  And another third angel followed them saying with a loud voice, If any one worshippeth the beast and his image (see above, ch. Rev 13:15 ),  and receiveth the mark on his forehead or upon his hand (ch. Rev 13:16 ),  he also (  καί either 1) may be quasi-redundant, introducing the apodosis merely as an addition to the protasis, or 2) may mean, as well as Babylon. The former sense seems to me the more probable)  shall drink (we have the second person πίεσαι of the same future form in Luke 17:8 ; see also Psalms 74:8 , cited below)  of the wine of the wrath of God, which is mingled (i. e. as E.V. poured into the cup. From the almost universal custom of mixing wine with water, the common term for preparing wine, putting it into the cup, came to be κεράννυμι . Hence the apparent contradiction in terms here, τοῦ κεκερασμένου ἀκράτου (and in Psa 74:8 below). On Od. ε . 93, κέρασσε δὲ νέκταρ ἐρυθρόν , Eustathius says, οὐ δηλοῖ κρᾶμά τι , ἀλλ ʼ ἀντὶ τοῦ ἐνέχει κεῖται . See Wetst., who gives several citations in which κεράννυμι itself is derived from κέρας , a drinking-horn)  pure (unmixed: cf. Galen in Wetst., οἶνον ἄκρατον εἶναι λέγομεν , ᾧ μὴ μέμικται τὸ ὕδωρ , ἢ παντάπασιν ὀλίγον μέμικται .
	The figure of the cup of the Lord’s wrath is found in ref. Ps., ποτήριον ἐν χειρὶ κυρίου, οἴνου ἀκράτου πλῆρες κεράσματος.… πίονται πάντες οἱ ἁμαρτωλοὶ τῆς γῆς , from which this is evidently taken)  in the cup of His anger, and shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the angels and in the presence of the Lamb (see ch. Revelation 20:10 , and ref. Isa. from which the imagery comes. De Wette is certainly wrong in interpreting ἐνώπιον “  nach dem Urtheile ,” “in the judgment of.” It is literal, and the meaning as in Luke 16:23 ff., that the torments are visible to the angels and the Lamb).  And the smoke of their torment goeth up to ages of ages (see ref. Isa., and Genesis 19:28 , which doubtless is the fountain-head: also ch. Rev 19:3 ):  and they have not rest (from torment)  day and night who worship the beast and his image; and whoever (from speaking collectively the solemn declaration becomes even more solemn by individualizing)  receives the mark of his name. Here (viz. in the inference to be drawn from the certainty of everlasting torment to all who worship the beast or receive his mark: that all the saints of God must refuse to do either)  is the endurance of the saints, who keep (the independent nom. construction, see reff.)  the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus (gen. objective, which has Him for its object: compare ref. Mark).  And I heard a voice out of heaven (whose, is not told us, and it is in vain to speculate: certainly not, as Hengstb., from the spirits of the just themselves. The γράψον would rather point to the angel who reveals the visions to the Seer, ch. Revelation 1:1 , and compare ch. Revelation 4:1 , and Rev 19:9 ),  saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord henceforth (the connexion is not difficult. The mention of the endurance of the saints brings with it the certainty of persecution unto death. The present proclamation declares the blessedness of all who die not only in persecution, but in any manner, in the Lord, in the faith and obedience of Christ. And the special command to write this, conveys special comfort to those in all ages of the church who should read it. But it is not so easy to assign a fit meaning to ἀπ ʼ ἄρτι . That it belongs to the former sentence, not to the following one, is I conceive plain: few will be found to join with Lambert Bos, Exercitt. p. 209, in connecting it to ναί , and making it = ἀπηρτισμένως , absoluté. And, thus joined with the former sentence, it must express some reason why this blessedness is to be more completely realized from this time when it a proclaimed, than it was before. Now this reason will quickly appear, if we consider the particular time, in connexion with which the proclamation is made. The harvest of the earth is about to be reaped; the vintage of the earth to be gathered. At this time it is, that the complete blessedness of the holy dead commences: when the garner is filled and the chaff cast out. And that not on account of their deliverance from any purgatorial fire, but because of the completion of this number of their brethren, and the full capacities of bliss brought in by the resurrection. Nor can it legitimately be objected to this, that the pres. part. ἀποθνήσκοντες requires a continuance of that which is imported by it: that the deaths implied must follow after the proclamation. For no doubt this would be so, the proclamation itself being anticipatory, and the harvest not yet actually come: but on the other hand so much must hardly be built upon the pres. part., which is so often used to  designate a class only, not to fix a time).  Yea, saith the Spirit (the utterance of the voice from heaven still continues. The affirmation of the Spirit (reff.) ratifies the blessedness proclaimed, and assigns a reason for it),  that they shall rest (the ἵνα gives the ground of the μακάριοι , and the construction with an indic. fut. is a mixed one compounded of “that they may,” and “in that they shall.” The future ἀναπαήσονται from ἀναπαύω is formed as κατακαήσομαι from κατακαύω . It seems not to be elsewhere found)  from their labours: for their works follow with them (  γάρ , which has seemed so difficult, and which apparently gave rise to the  δέ of the rec., is in fact easily explained. They  rest from their labours, because the time of working is over, their works accompanying them not in a life of activity, but in blessed memory: wherefore not labour, but rest is their lot. Wetst. quotes from Aboth vi. 9, “hora discessus hominis non comitantur eum argentum aut aurum aut lapides pretiosi aut margaritæ, sed lex et opera bona”).