 17 20 .]  The vintage of wrath .  And another angel (the  ἄλλος may perhaps refer to the three angels who have already appeared in this vision: or, which is more probable, referring to the last-mentioned Agent, may be a general term, not necessarily implying that He was a mere angel)  came out from the temple which was in heaven (from which come forth God’s judgments: see ch. Rev 11:19 ),  having himself also (as well as that other: but the καὶ αὐτός rather raises a distinction between the two personages than sets them on an equality: there is some slight degree of strangeness, after what has gone before, in this angel having a sickle)  a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar (viz. that elsewhere several times mentioned, ch. Revelation 6:9 , Revelation 8:3 , Revelation 16:7 , in connexion with the fulfilment of God’s judgments in answer to the prayers of His saints),  he who hath power over the fire (viz. that on the altar; the same angel who is introduced ch. Rev 8:3-5 as presenting the prayers of the saints, and casting some of the fire of the altar to the earth as introductory to the judgments of the trumpets),  and he cried with a great cry to him who had the sharp sickle (it is to be observed that the whole description of this angel, coming from the altar of vengeance, differs widely from any thing in the former part of the vision, and favours the idea that this vintage is of a different nature from that harvest),  saying, Put in thy sharp sickle, and gather the bunches of the vine of the earth, because her grapes are ripe. And the angel (no such expression is used above, Revelation 14:16 . There it is ὁ καθήμενος ἐπὶ τῆς νεφέλης . All these signs of difference are worthy of notice)  put in (reff.)  his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast (viz. what he had gathered)  into the great winepress of the wrath of God (the curious combination, τὴν ληνὸν … τὸν μέγαν , is only to be accounted for by an uncertainty in the gender of the substantive (it is masc. Genesis 30:38 ; Gen 30:41 ed. Rom. See Winer, edn. 6, § 59. 4, b), and perhaps a tendency, when emphatically subjoining an epithet describing greatness, to substitute the worthier gender.
	Any thing corresponding to this feature is entirely wanting in the previous description of the harvest. See on it, ch. Revelation 19:15 , and the prophetic passages in reff. especially Isa. from which the symbolism comes).  And the winepress was trodden (reff.)  outside the city (see below),  and blood (so Isa 63:3 )  came forth from the winepress as far as to the bits of the horses, to the distance (ref.)  of a thousand six hundred stadii (it is exceedingly difficult to say what the meaning is, further than that the idea of a tremendous final act of vengeance is denoted.  The city evidently = ἡ πόλις ἡ ἔξωθεν of ch. Revelation 11:2 (not that of Revelation 11:8 , see note there), viz.  Jerusalem , where the scene has been tacitly laid, with occasional express allusions such as that in our Revelation 14:1 . The blood coming forth from the treading of the winepress is in accordance with the O. T. prophecy alluded to, Isaiah 63:3 . It is in the depth, and the distance indicated, that the principal difficulty lies. The number of stadii is supposed by some to be the length of the Holy Land as given by Jerome (Ep. (cxxix.) ad Dard., 4, vol. i. p. 971) at 160 Roman miles. But the great objection to this is, that 160 miles = 1280, not 1600 stadii. Another view has been, that 1600 has been chosen as a square number, = 40 × 40, or 4 × 400, or 4 × 4 × 100. Victorinus explains it “per omnes mundi quatuor partes: quaternitas enim est conquaternata, sicut in quatuor faciebus et quadriformibus et rotis quadratis.” He gives a very curious interpretation of the depth, “usque ad principes populorum.” We may fairly say, either that the number is assigned simply to signify completeness and magnitude (in which case some other apocalyptic numbers which have been much insisted on will fall perhaps under the same canon of interpretation), or else this is one of the riddles of the Apocalypse to which not even a proximate solution has ever yet been given).