 4 .]  because (reason, why His commandments are not grievous: not, as Œc., ἐπιτίθησι τοῖς ἤδη εἰρημένοις κσὶ ἕτερον ἐπακτικὸν πρὸς τὴν μεταχείρισιν τῆς ἀγάπης , making καὶ αἱ ἐντ . αὐ . β . οὐκ εἰς . merely parenthetical)  all that is born of God (the neuter is here used as gathering together in one, under the category of “born of God,” the ἡμεῖς implied in the last verses. So St. John uses the comprehensive categorical neuter in reff. Œc. seems to deny this personal meaning of πᾶν , and to understand it “every thing,” applying it afterwards to ἡ πίστις ἡμ . as one such thing. Aretius and Paulus take it similarly. But besides the Apostle’s usage cited above, the whole analogy here is against such an interpretation. It is  we , not our faith, of which the term ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ γεγεννῆσθαι is used)  conquereth (  νικᾷ , of habit: simply predicated of the category πᾶν τὸ κ . τ . λ .)  the world (the kingdom of evil under its prince the devil, God’s adversary; in the main as Calv., “quicquid adversum est Dei spiritui. Ita naturæ nostræ pravitas pars mundi est, omnes concupiscentiæ, omnes Satanæ actus, quicquid denique nos a Deo abstrahit.”
	The argument then is this: The commandments of God are not grievous: for, although in keeping them there is ever a conflict, yet that conflict issues in universal victory: the whole mass of the born of God conquer the world: therefore none of us need contemplate failure, or faint under his struggle as a hard one),  and the victory which (  hath )  conquered the world is this, our faith (the identification of the victory with the faith which gained it, is a concise and emphatic way of linking the two inseparably together, so that wherever there is faith there is victory. And this is further expressed by the aorist participle, by which, as Estius (notwithstanding that the vulgate has “quæ vincit”), “significatur victoria jam parta:” cf. ch. 1 John 2:13 , 1 John 4:4 . Socinus absurdly explains the aorist as speaking of those whose Christian course is done, against the plain ἐστίν , not only here but in 1Jn 5:5 ).