 19 .]  Application of that which is said 1 John 5:18 , to the Apostle and his readers; and that, in entire separation from ὁ πονηρός , the ruling spirit of this present world.  We know (see summary above)  that we (not emphatic: no ἡμεῖς as set over against ὁ κόσμος . It is not the object now to bring out a contrast, but to reassert solemnly these great axioms of the Christian life)  are of God (i. e. born of God: identifying us with those spoken of 1Jn 5:18 ),  and the whole world lieth in the wicked one (this second member of the sentence does not depend on the preceding ὅτι , but like those of 1 John 5:18 ; 1 John 5:20 , is an independent proposition.  τῷ πονηρῷ , by the analogy of St. John’s diction, is masculine, not neuter, as Lyra (“in maligno, i. e. in malo igne concupiscentiæ”), Socinus, Schlichting, Episcopius (“in peccandi consuetudine tenentur”), Grotius (but with an allusion to ὁ πονηρός ), al., and E. V. (“lieth in wickedness”). This neuter sense can hardly stand after comparing ch. 1 John 2:13-14 , 1Jn 3:8 ; 1 John 3:10 ; 1 John 3:14 , 1 John 4:4 ; John 17:14 f., and above all after the preceding verse here. For  κεῖσθαι ἐν in this sense, there is, as in reff., no other example. That in Polybius, vi. 14. 6, ἐν τῇ συγκλήτῳ κεῖται , “lies in the power or determination of the Senate,” is an approximation, but not quite the same sense. θεῶν ἐν γούνασι κεῖται , so common in Homer, is another. The idea  in the power of , and the  local idea, seem to be combined. ὁ πονηρός is as it were the inclusive abiding-place and representative of all his, as, in the expressions ἐν κυρίῳ , ἐν χριστῷ , ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ , ἐσμὲν ἐν τῷ ἀληθινῷ , 1 John 5:20 , the Lord is of His. And while we are ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , implying a birth and a proceeding forth and a change of state, the κόσμος , all the rest of mankind, κεῖται ἐν τ . π ., remains where it was, in, and in the power of, ὁ πονηρός . Some Commentators have been anxious to avoid inconsistency with such passages as ch. 1 John 2:2 , 1 John 4:14 , and would therefore give κόσμος a different meaning here. But there is no inconsistency whatever. Had not Christ become a propitiation for the sins of the whole world, were He not the Saviour of the whole world, none could ever come out of the world and believe on Him; but as it is, they who do believe on Him, come out and are separated from the world: so that our proposition here remains strictly true: the κόσμος is the negation of faith in Him, and as such lies in the wicked one, His adversary).