 10 12 .] The perfect  μεμαρτύρηκεν , 1 John 5:9 , shewed that the testimony spoken of is not merely an historical one, such for instance as Matthew 3:17 , which God ἐμαρτύρησεν , but one abiding and present. And these verses explain to us what that testimony is.  He that believeth in the Son of God hath the testimony (just spoken of; τοῦ θεοῦ , as the gloss adds: see var. readd.)  in him (i. e. in himself. The two readings do not differ in sense. The object of the divine testimony being, to produce faith in Christ, the Apostle takes him in whom it has wrought this its effect, one who habitually believes in the Son of God, and says of such an one that he possesses the testimony in himself. What it is, he does not plainly say till below, 1 John 5:11 . But easily enough here we can synthetically put together and conjecture of what testimony it is that he is speaking: the Spirit by whom we are born again to eternal Life, the water of baptism by which the new birth is brought to pass in us by the power of the Holy Ghost (John 3:5 , Tit 3:5 ), the Blood of Jesus by which we have reconciliation with God, and purification from our sins (ch. 1 John 1:7 , 1Jn 2:2 ), and eternal life (John 6:53 ff.), these three all contribute to and make up our faith in Christ, and so compose that testimony, which the Apostle designates in 1Jn 5:11 by the shorter term which comprehends them all. This is rightly maintained by Düsterd. as the exegesis: identifying the μαρτυρία here with that in 1 John 5:11 , as against numerous expositors who make the one differ from the other. It is plain that all evasive senses of ἔχει ἐν αὐτῷ , such as “recipit in se” of Socinus, Grot., Rosenmüller, are inadmissible):  he that believeth not God (St. John, as so frequently, proceeds to put his proposition in the strongest light by bringing out the opposite to it.
	The reading τῷ θεῷ is internally as well as externally substantiated. The participle with the dative is wholly different from the same above with εἱς τὸν υἱόν . That is the resting trust of faith: this the mere first step of giving credit to a witness. Huther well fills in τῷ θεῷ by τῷ μεμαρτυρηκότι . And thus it is tacitly assumed that one who does not believe in the Son of God, gives no credit to God Himself)  hath made Him a liar (perf. because the state of discredit implies a definite rejection still continuing. On the expression, see ch. 1Jn 1:10 ),  because he hath not believed in (here, not only, hath not credited, though that was the more shameful rejection of God’s word: but now the  full rejection the refusal to  believe in , cast himself on God’s testimony)  the testimony which God hath testified concerning His Son .