 12 .]  Conclusion of the whole argument from 1 John 5:6 ; dependent on the last clause of 1 John 5:11 , and carrying it on a step farther, even to the absolute identity as matter of possession for the believer, of the Son of God, and eternal life.  He that hath the Son, hath the life: he that hath not the Son of God, the life hath he not . First notice the diction and arrangement, on which Bengel has well remarked, “Habet versus duo cola: in priore non additur  Dei , nam fideles norunt Filium: in altero additur, ut demum sciantinfid eles, quanti sit non habere. Priore hemistichio cum emphasi pronunciandum est  habet : in altero,  vitam .” This latter furnishes a simple and beautiful example of the laws of emphasis in arrangement:  ἔχει τὴν ζωήν  τὴν ζωὴν οὐκ ἔχει .
	Next, the  ἔχειν τὸν υἱόν must not be explained away with Grotius by “verba illa retinere quæ Pater Filio mandavit,” nor  ἔχειν τὴν ζωήν , with the same, by “jus certum habere ad vitam æternam.” The  having the Son is the possession of Christ by faith testified by the Spirit, the water, and the blood: and the  having the life is the actually possessing it, not indeed in its most glorious development, but in all its reality and vitality.
	Thirdly, it must be remarked that the question as to whether eternal salvation is altogether confined to those who in the fullest sense have the Son (to the exclusion, e. g., of those who have never heard of Him), does not belong here, but must be entertained on other grounds. See note on 1 Peter 3:19 . Düsterd. has remarked that the use of ὁ μὴ ἔχων , not ὁ οὐκ ἔχων (cf. οἱ οὐκ ἠλεημένοι 1Pe 2:10 ), shews that the Apostle is contemplating, at all events primarily, rather a possible contingency than an actual fact: and thus is, primarily again, confining his saying to those to whom the divine testimony has come. To them, according as they receive or do not receive it, according as they are οἱ ἔχοντες or οἱ μὴ ἔχοντες τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ , it is a savour of life unto life, or of death unto death.