 6 .]  This (viz. the person spoken of in the last verse; Jesus. This, which is maintained by most Commentators, is denied by Knapp and Huther, who refer οὗτος to ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ : “This Son of God is he &c.:” making the proposition assert the identity of the Son of God with the historical Jesus, not the converse. This Huther supports on two grounds: 1) that the fact that Jesus came by water and blood needed no proof even to Heretics: 2) that on the ordinary interpretation the following words, Ἰης . ( ὁ ) χριστός , become altogether superfluous. But to these it is easily replied, 1) that although the fact might be confessed, that was not confessed to which the fact bore testimony, viz. that Jesus who came in the flesh was the Son of God: 2) that the appositional clause Ἰης . ( ὁ ) χριστός is by no means superfluous, being only a solemn reassertion of our Lord’s Person and Office as testified by these signs.
	The main objection to Huther’s view is, that, as well stated by Düsterd., it makes the coming by water and blood, which, by the context, is evidently in the Apostle’s argument a substantiating consideration, to be merely an exceptional one: “this Son of God is Jesus (the) Christ,  though He came by water and blood.” Therefore the other interpretation must stand fast. It is well defended also by Lücke)  is he that came by water and blood (the words  δι  ʼ   ὕδατος κ  .   αἵματος have been universally and rightly taken with ἐλθών . Only Hofmann, in the Schriftbeweis, ii. 1, p. 331, maintains the joining δι ʼ ὕδ . κ . αἵμ . to ἐστιν , understanding ἐλθών , “He that has come,” in the sense of ὁ ἐρχόμενος . But this latter idea is wholly without N. T. precedent, and condemns the whole. It indeed, without Hofmann’s construction, is token by several Commentators, Corn.-a-lap., Tirinus, Calov., Bengel (“Jesus est is quem propter promissiones venire oportuit, et qui venit revera”), Knapp, &c. But if this meaning is in ἐλθών , then it cannot be the mere exponent of δι ʼ ὕδ . κ . αἵμ ., but must take an emphatic place of its own, and δι ʼ ὕδ . κ . αἵμ . must stand awkwardly alone, “and that by water and blood,” or must, as Hofmann, belong to ἐστιν .
	Taking then the generally received construction, we may observe that the article before the aor. part. ἐλθών , makes οὗτός ἐστιν ὁ ἐλθών to be the identification of οὗτος with ὁ ἐλθών , i. e. with one who as an historical fact, ἦλθεν , precluding such renderings as “came” for ἐστὶν ὁ ἐλθών ; also forbidding the making the aor. into a present, “this is He that cometh,” as Luther, Seb.-Schmidt, J. Lange, Rickli, Sander, al., and perhaps Œc., as has been inferred from his understanding ὕδωρ and αἷμα of present means of grace and salvation: ὁ γὰρ ἐλθὼν Ἰησοῦς ὁ χριστὸς δι ʼ ὕδατος ἀναγεννᾷ καὶ αἵματος . But he may have been misunderstood: the ἐλθών in this comment, and the circumstance that he afterwards dwells on the historical facts of the Baptism and the Crucifixion, seem to shew that he understood the participle aoristically. We may clearly do so, and still regard the water and blood as present in their effects and testimony. All Commentators, except Hofmann (see above), regard  ἐλθών as referring, not to the Lord’s birth in the flesh, but to His open manifestation of himself before the world. See above on ch. 1 John 4:2 .
	The prep.  διὰ , which passes into ἐν in the next sentence, is thereby explained to bear its very usual sense of through or by means of, as said of that which accompanies, as the medium through which, or the element in which. We have an example of ἐν passing into διὰ , 2 Corinthians 6:6-7 ; and the very same phrases, δι ʼ αἵματος and ἐν αἵματι , are used of our Lord in Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 9:25 , which chapter is the best of all comments on this difficult expression.
	 δι  ʼ   ὕδατος κ  .   αἵματος has been very variously understood. Two canons of interpretation have been laid down by Düsterd., and may safely be adopted: 1) “Water” and “blood” must point both to some purely historical facts in the life of our Lord on earth, and to some still present witnesses for Christ: and 2) they must not be interpreted symbolically, but understood of something so real and powerful, as that by them God’s testimony given to believers, and eternal life assured to them. These canons at once exclude such interpretations as that of Wetst., al., “probavit se non phantasma sed verum hominem esse qui ex spiritu (sive aëre, 1Jn 5:8 ) sanguine et aqua seu humore constaret, John 19:34 :” as the purely symbolical interpretation, of which there are two kinds: 1) that of Socinus and his school, in which ὕδωρ stands for the purity and innocence of the life and doctrine of Christ, Hebrews 10:22 , Ephesians 5:26 , and αἷμα of the death of Christ as His testimony of Himself. So Schlichting and Grotius: 2) that given by Clement of Alex., Adumbrationes ad h. 1. 1011 P (not in Migne), in which ὕδωρ represents regeneration and faith, and αἷμα , knowledge (cognitionem): by Beza, in which ὕδωρ is “ablutio a peccati labe, cujus nunc tessera est Baptismus,” αἷμα , “expiatio et persolutio pro peccatis:” by Calvin, in which he explains both ὕδωρ and αἷμα by “summatim ostendit quorsum præcipue tenderent ceremoniæ veteres: nempe ut homines ab inquinamentis purgati et soluti omnibus piaculis, Deum haberent propitium et illi consecrarentur.” By the latter of our two canons is excluded also the idea of mere symbolic reference to the sacraments, as e. g. Beza (see above), Luther, Calvin, al.
	Düsterdieck observes that it is remarkable that the best R.-Cath. expositor, Estius (whose commentary is unfortunately broken off at this verse), does not as some have done, interpret αἷμα of the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, but puts together ὕδωρ and αἷμα , as Calvin and Luther: “per sanguinem vivificat tum in baptismo aquæ, tum in aliis sacramentis, tum etiam extra sacramenta.” So that, as Düsterdieck proceeds, the great leaders of the three schools of theology have had the tact to see that which their less skilful followers have missed seeing, that αἷμα cannot by any means be understood of the Lord’s Supper, as has been done by Hunnius, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., Wolf, Bengel, Carpzov., Sander, al.
	The next point which comes before us is, to enquire whether at all, or how far, our passage is connected with Joh 19:34 ? It occurs here, because many Commentators, e. g., Bed [76] , Hunnius, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., Wolf, Bengel, &c., have seen in the incident there related a miraculous symbolizing of the two sacraments, and in this passage an allusion to that incident. To deny all such allusion, as is done by Düsterdieck, seems against probability. The Apostle could hardly both here and in that place lay such evident stress on the water and blood together, without having in his mind some link connecting this place and that. That in the Gospel it is αἷμα and ὕδωρ , in this place ὕδωρ and αἷμα , a difference of which Düsterd. makes much, is surely not worth mentioning. The idea that we have here nothing more than a reference to the fact of John 19:34 , is against our 2nd canon above: but that Joh 19:34 and this refer to the same fundamental truth, is I conceive hardly to be doubted.
	 [76] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	It rests now then that we enquire into the meaning of each expression. On  αἷμα , there cannot surely be much uncertainty. The blood of His Cross must, by all Scripture analogy, be that intended. The pouring out of this blood was the completion of the baptism which He had to be baptized with, Mark 10:38-39 , Luke 12:50 . And if this is so, to what can ὕδωρ be referred so simply, as to that baptism with water, which inaugurated the Lord’s ministry? It might indeed be said that the baptism which He instituted for His followers, better satisfies the test of our 2nd canon, that viz. of being an abiding testimony in the Christian Church. But to this there lies the objection, that as αἷμα signifies something which happened to Christ Himself, so must ὕδωρ likewise, at least primarily, whatever permanent testimony such event may have left in the Christian Church. And thus some modern Commentators have taken it: as uniting the historical fact of the Lord’s baptism with the ordinance of baptism, grounded on it, and abiding in the Christian Church. So Semler, Rosenm., Baumg.-Crus., Brückner, Neander, Huther. Düsterd. refuses to accept this view, denying that our Lord’s Baptism was any proof or testimony of His Messiahship, and understanding ὕδωρ of the ordinance of baptism only. But surely we are not right in interpreting ὁ ἐλθὼν δι ʼ ὕδατος ,  He that ordained baptism : nor, whatever Düsterd. may say, in giving the two, αἷμα and ὕδωρ , an entirely different reference. For his endeavour to escape from this by making αἷμα not Christ’s death but His blood, applied to us, cannot be accepted, as giving a “non-natural” sense to ἐλθὼν δι ʼ αἵματος likewise.
	All this being considered, it seems impossible to avoid giving both to αἷμα and ὕδωρ the combined senses above indicated, and believing that such were before the Apostle’s mind. They represent,  ὕδωρ , the baptism of water which the Lord Himself underwent and instituted for His followers,  αἷμα , the baptism of blood, which He Himself underwent, and instituted for His followers. And it is equally impossible to sever, as Düsterd. does, from these words, the historical accompaniments and associations which arise on their mention. The Lord’s baptism, of itself, was indeed rather a result than a proof of his Messiahship: but in it, taking St. John’s account only, a testimony to His divine Sonship was given, by which the Baptist knew Him to be the Son of God: ἐγὼ ἑώρακα κ . μεμαρτύρηκα ὅτι οὗτός ἐστιν ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ , are his words, John 1:34 ; and when that blood was poured from His “riven side,” he that saw it again uses the same formula, ὁ ἑωρακὼς μεμαρτύρηκε . It cannot be that the word μαρτυρία being thus referred to two definite points of our Lord’s life, should not apply to these two, connected as they are with ὕδωρ and αἷμα here mentioned, and associated by St. John himself with the remarkable preterite μεμαρτύρηκεν , of an abiding μαρτυρία in both cases. But these past facts in the Lord’s life are this abiding testimony to us, by virtue of the permanent application to us of their cleansing and atoning power. And thus both our canons are satisfied, which certainly is not the case in Düsterdieck’s interpretation, though they were laid down by himself),  Jesus Christ (see above on οὗτος . As now, with the art. omitted, the words are merely the name, “Jesus Christ:” if it were inserted, the adjunct ὁ χριστός would be an appositional predicate, and would necessarily send the thought back to the ἐλθὼν δι ʼ ὕδ . κ . αἵμ . as a proof of the Messiahship of Jesus. It may be remarked, however, that in all the places where St. John uses this Name, it has a solemn meaning, and is by the emphasis thus thrown on the official designation of our Lord, nearly = Ἰησοῦς ὁ χριστός . Cf. John 1:17 ; John 17:3 ; 1Jn 1:3 ; 1 John 2:1 ; 1 John 3:23 ; 1Jn 4:2 ; 1 John 5:20 ; 2 John 1:3 ; 2Jn 1:7 ):  not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood (  ἐν , see above on  διά  . The sense of the two is there shewn to be closely allied,  ἐν giving rather the “element in which,”  διὰ , the medium through which. The art. before each dative shews not merely, as Huther, that ὕδωρ and αἷμα have been before named, but that they are well-known and solemn ideas. It is inserted not as matter of course, but as giving solemnity.
	But why has the Apostle added this sentence? Schöttgen thought that it is to give Christ the preference over Moses, who came only by water ( 1Co 10:2 ), and Aaron, who came only by blood (of sacrifice), whereas Christ united both. But this is too far-fetched. Baumgarten-Crusius again regards the words as directed against those who despised the Cross of Christ ( 1Co 1:23 ): but a more definite explanation than this is required. And those can hardly be wrong, who find it in such words as those of the Baptist in John 1:25 , ἐγὼ βαπτίζω ἐν ὕδατι , μέσος ὑμῶν στήκει ὃν ὑμεῖς οὐκ οἴδατε : cf. the emphatic repetitions below, ib. John 1:31 , ἦλθον ἐγὼ ἐν τῷ ὕδατι βαπτίζων , and John 1:33 , ὁ πέμψας με βαπτίζειν ἐν ὕδατι . The baptism of Jesus was not one of water only, but one of blood, ἴδε ὁ ἀμνὸς τοῦ θεοῦ and something more than that, which follows in the next clause):  and the Spirit is that which witnesseth, because the Spirit is the truth (that is, as explained by the next verse, the Spirit is an additional witness, besides those already mentioned, to the Messiahship of Jesus, and in that, to the eternal life which God has given us in Him. This at once removes the meaning “that,” which some have given to  ὅτι . It is not to the fact that the Spirit is the truth, that the Spirit gives witness: but the fact, that He is the truth, is that which makes Him so weighty a witness; which makes the giving of witness so especially His office.
	Very various however have been the meanings here given to τὸ πνεῦμα . The scholium in Matthäi understands, the spirit of our Lord ( τὸ πν . τῆς ψυχῆς ) which He when dying commended into His Father’s hands. Augusti, who explains ὕδωρ and αἷμα of the two Sacraments of Baptism and the Lord’s Supper, sees in πνεῦμα , in connexion with John 20:22 ff., a third Sacrament of  absolution . Ziegler and Stroth regard it as = ὁ πνευματικός , i. e. St. John himself. Œc. and Knapp regard it as = ὁ θεός διὰ δὲ τοῦ πνεύματος , ὅτε ὡς θεὸς ἀνέστη ἐκ νεκρῶν · θεοῦ γὰρ τοῦτο μόνου λοιπόν , τὸ ἀνιστᾷν ἑαυτόν . τῇ δὲ τοῦ πνεύματος φωνῇ σημαίνεται ὁ θεός : thus making the threefold witness to the υἱοθεσία of Jesus, τὸ βάπτισμα , ὁ σταυρός , ἡ ἀνάστασις . Then again Socinus, Schlichting, Grot., Whitby, al., interpret it of the Divine power by which Christ wrought His miracles: “id est,” says Grot., “per μετωνυμίαν , admiranda ejus opera, a virtute divina manifeste procedentia.” But this, as well as Bede’ [77] interpretation, that the Spirit which descended on the Lord at His baptism is meant, inasmuch as it testified to His being “verus Dei filius,” fails, in giving no  present abiding testimony such as the context requires. Others again understand by πνεῦμα the ministry of the word: so Aretius, J. Lange, Hunnius (“Spiritus per externam prædicationem verbi testificator de Jesu Christo, atque simul intrinsecus in cordibus fidelium hanc Christi notitiam obsignat”), Luther, Piscator, Carpzov., Rosenmüller (the Gospel), Seb.-Schmidt (“verbum evangelii et cum eo ministerium ecclesiasticum”), &c. Most of these, as well as Bengel, whose whole interpretation is confused by his attempt to force the interpolated words in 1Jn 5:7 into the context, understand πνεῦμα here and in 1Jn 5:8 differently. But nothing can be plainer than that we must not alter the meaning, where the ὅτι binds together the sentences so closely.
	 [77] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	The above interpretations (to which we may add that of Sander, that τὸ πν . =  τὸ χάρισμα , the transformation of a man which takes place by the agency of the Holy Spirit) failing to give any satisfactory account of the text, we recur to the simple and obvious meaning,  the Holy Spirit . This is taken by Schol. I., Estius, Corn.-a-lap., Tirinus, Calvin, Calov., Lücke, Rickli, De Wette, Huther, Neander, Düsterdieck, al. And it seems fully to satisfy all the requirements of the passage. The Holy Spirit is He, who testifies of Christ ( Joh 15:26 ), who glorifies Him, and shews of the things which belong to Him ( Joh 16:14 ). It is by the possession of Him that we know that we have Christ (ch. 1Jn 3:24 ). And the following clause, “because the Spirit is the Truth,” exactly agrees with this. He is the absolute Truth (John 14:17 ; Joh 15:26 ), leading into all the Truth (John 16:13 f.). And in this consists the all-importance and the infallibility of His witness. “Testimonium ejus hand-quaquam rejici potest, quoniam Spiritus est veritas, quum sit Deus, ideoque nec falli potest, nec fallere.” Estius).