 17 .]  All unrighteousness is sin (in the words  πᾶσα ἀδικία we have a reminiscence of ch. 1 John 1:9 , ἐὰν ὁμολογῶμεν τὰς  ἁμαρτίας ἡμῶν , πιστός ἐστιν καὶ δίκαιος , ἵνα ἀφη ἡμῖν τὰς ἁμαρτίας καὶ καθαρίσῃ ἠμᾶς ἀπὸ  πὰσης ἀδικίας , and also, but not so directly, of ch. 1 John 3:4 , which is virtually the converse proposition to this. Here the Apostle seems to say, in explanation of what be has just written, “SIN is a large word, comprehending all unrighteousness whatever: whether of God’s children, or of aliens from Him.” The thoughts which have been brought into these words, that ἀδικία is a mild word, meant to express that every slight trip of the good Christian falls under the category of sin, and so there may be a sin not unto death, or, on the other hand, that it is a strong word, as Grot., “ ἀδικίαν vocat non quamvis ignorantiam aut obreptionem subitam, sed quicquid peccatur aut cum deliberatione aut dato ad deliberationem spatio,” or thirdly, as Beza, that “peccata omnia hactenus paria sunt, ut vel minima minimi peccati cogitatio mortem æternam millies mereatur …” and “omnia per se lethalia esse peccata,” are equally far from the meaning of the words, whose import is, as above, to account for there being a sin not unto death as well as a sin unto death);  and there is a sin not (in this case not μή , because no hypothetical case is put, nor one dependent on judgment, but an objective fact)  unto death (not having death for its issue: within the limit of that ἀδικία , from all of which God cleanseth all those who confess their sins, ch. 1Jn 1:9 ).
	Our  first canon of interpretation of the ἁμαρτία πρὸς θάνατον and οὐ πρὸς θάνατον is this: that  the θάνατος  and the ζωή  of the passage must correspond . The former cannot be bodily death, while the latter is eternal and spiritual life. This clears away at once all those Commentators who understand the sin unto death to be one for which bodily death is the punishment, either by human law generally, as Morus and G. Lange, or by the Mosaic law, as Schöttgen, or by sickness inflicted by God, as our Whitby and Benson; or of which there will be no end till the death of the sinner, which Bed [81] thinks possible (“Potest etiam peccatum ad mortem, p. usque ad mortem, accipi.” But he rejects this himself), and Lyra adopts. This last is evidently absurd, for how is a man to know whether this will be so or not?
	 [81] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	Our  second canon will be, that this sin unto death being thus a sin leading to eternal death, being no further explained to the readers here, must be presumed as  meant to be understood by what the Evangelist has elsewhere laid down concerning the possession of life and death. Now we have from him a definition immediately preceding this, in 1 John 5:12 , ὁ ἔχων τὸν υἱὸν ἔχει τὴν ζωήν · ὁ μὴ ἔχων τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ τὴν ζωὴν οὐκ ἔχει . And we may safely say that the words πρὸς θάνατον here are to be understood as meaning, “involving the loss of  this life which men have only by union with the Son of God.” And this meaning they must have, not by implication only, which would be the case if any obstinate and determined sin were meant, which would be a  sign of the fact of severance from the life which is in Christ (see ch. 1 John 3:14-15 , where the inference is of this kind), but directly and essentially, i. e. in respect of that very sin which is pointed at by them. Now against this canon are all those interpretations, far too numerous to mention, which make  any atrocious and obstinate sin to be that intended. It is obvious that our limits are thus confined to  abnegation of Christ , not as inferred by its fruits otherwise shewn, but as the act of sin itself. And so, with various shades of difference as to the putting forth in detail, most of the best Commentators, both ancient and modern: e. g. Aretius, Luther, Calvin, Beza, Piscator, Corn.-a-lap., Tirinus, Baumg.-Crus., Lücke, Huther, Düsterd.
	Our  third canon will help us to decide, within the above limits, what especial sin is intended. And it is, that by the very analogy of the context, it must be  not a state of sin, but an appreciable ACT  of sin , seeing that that which is opposed to it  in the same kind , as being not unto death, is described by ἐάν τις ἴδῃ ἁμαρτάνοντα . So that all interpretations which make it to be a  state of apostasy, all such as, e. g. Bengel’s “peccatum ad mortem est peccatum non obvium, neque subitum, sed talis status animæ in quo fides et amor et spes, in summa, vita nova, exstincta est,” do not reach the matter of detail which is before the Apostle’s mind.
	In enquiring what this is, we must be guided by the analogy of what St. John says elsewhere.  Our state being that of life in Jesus Christ, there are those who have gone out from us, not being of us, ch. 1 John 2:19 , who are called ἀντίχριστοι , who not only “have not” Christ, but are Christ’s enemies, denying the Father and the Son ( 1Jn 2:22 ), whom we are not even to receive into our houses nor to greet ( 2Jn 1:10-11 ). These seem to be the persons pointed at here, and this the sin: viz. the denial that Jesus is the Christ the incarnate Son of God. This alone of all sins bears upon it the stamp of severance from Him who is the Life itself. As the confession of Christ, with the mouth and in the heart, is salvation unto life ( Rom 10:9 ), so denial of Christ with the mouth and in the heart, is sin unto death. This alone of all the proposed solutions seems to satisfy all the canons above laid down. For in it, the life cast away and the death incurred strictly correspond: it strictly corresponds to what St. John has elsewhere said concerning life and death, and derives its explanation from those other passages, especially from the foregoing 1 John 5:12 ; and it is an appreciable act of sin, one against which the readers have been before repeatedly cautioned (ch. 1 John 2:18 ff., 1 John 4:1 ff., 1 John 4:5 ; 1Jn 4:11-12 ). And further, it is in exact accordance with other passages of Scripture which seem to point at a sin similarly distinguished above others; viz. Matthew 12:31 ff., and, so far as the circumstances there dealt with allow common ground, with the more ethical passages, Hebrews 6:4 ff; Hebrews 10:25 ff. In the former case, the Scribes and Pharisees were resisting the Holy Ghost ( Act 7:51 ) who was manifesting God in the flesh in the Person and work of Christ. For them the Lord Himself does not pray ( Luk 23:34 ): they knew what they did: they went out from God’s people and were not of them: receiving and repudiating the testimony of the Holy Ghost to the Messiahship of Jesus.