 3 .]  For (explaining the connexion of the two preceding clauses)  the love of God is this (consists in this:  αὕτη , as the demonstrative pronoun, in all such sentences, being the predicate),  that ( ἵνα introduces the apodosis to αὕτη as in ch. 1 John 4:17 , where see note)  we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not grievous (the reason, why they are not grievous, is given in the next verse. Almost all the Commentators refer to Matthew 11:30 , ὁ ζυγός μου χρηστός , κ . τὸ φορτίον μου ἐλαφρόν ἐστιν . Œc., however, al., repudiate this reference, but apparently on account of the form of expression; observing that the Apostle has said not ἐλαφραὶ εἰσίν , but βαρεῖαι οὐκ εἰσίν ; but the comment of Œc. is in confusion, and not easy to understand. The Schol. in the Oxf. Catena well remarks, εἴ τις προσελθὼν αὐταῖς μὴ ὃν δεῖ τρόπον λέγει αὐτὰς βαρείας , τὴν ἑαυτοῦ ἀσθένειαν ᾐτιάσατο · φίλον γὰρ τοῖς ἄγαν ἀποβάλλουσιν ἰσχὺν βαρέα νομίζεσθαι καὶ τὰ πάνυ ἐλαφρὰ καὶ κοῦφα .
	This declaration, that His commandments are not grievous, has, as did ch. 1 John 3:9 , furnished some of the R.-Cath. Commentators with an opportunity of characterizing very severely the Protestant position that none can keep God’s commandments. But here as there the reply is obvious and easy. The course of the Apostle’s argument here, as introduced in the next verse by ὅτι , substantiates this βαρεῖαι οὐκ εἰσίν by shewing that all who are born of God are standing in and upon the victory which their faith has obtained over the world. In this victorious state, and in as far as they have advanced into it, in other words in proportion as the divine life is developed and dominant in them, do they find those commandments not grievous. If this state, in its ideality, were realized in them, there would be no difficulty for them in God’s commandments: it is because, and in so far as sin is still reigning in their mortal bodies and their wills are unsubdued to God’s will, that any βάρος remains in keeping those commandments),