 20 .] Yet another  οἴδαμεν : and that in general, as summing up all, the certainty to us of the Son of God having come, and having given us the knowledge of God, and of our being in Him: and the formal inclusion, in this one fact, of knowledge of the true God here, and life everlasting hereafter.  Moreover (  δέ closes off and sums up all: cf. 1 Thessalonians 5:23 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:16 ; Hebrews 13:20 ; Hebrews 13:22 , al. fr. This not being seen, it has been altered to καί , as there appeared to be no contrast with the preceding)  we know that the Son of God is come (the incarnation, and work, and abiding presence of the Son of God, is to us a living fact. HE IS HERE all is full of Him ὁ διδάσκαλος πάρεστιν καὶ φωνει σε ),  and hath given (the subject to δέδωκεν is ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ , not, as Bengel, “Deus” understood. It is the Son of God who is to us the bestower of this knowledge, see 1 John 5:13 ; it is He who is here at the end of the Epistle made prominent, as it is He who is to us eternal life, and he who hath Him hath the Father)  to us (  an )  understanding (  διάνοια , the divinely empowered inner sense by which we judge of things divine: see Beck, Umriss der biblischen Seelenlehre, p. 58. It is not the wisdom or judgment  itself , but the faculty capable of attaining to it. Compare John 1:12 ; John 1:18 ; John 17:2 f., John 17:6 f., John 17:25 f.; 2 Corinthians 4:6 ; Eph 1:18 )  that we know (with the indic. as in the other places where it occurs, or seems to occur, in the N. T.,  ἵνα must bear a sort of pregnant sense, of a purpose accomplished or at least secured. See note on ἵνα with the future indicative Galatians 2:4 , and cf. Revelation 3:9 ; Revelation 6:4 ; Revelation 13:12 ; Revelation 14:13 , and for the present indicative, reff.: and see the whole discussed and examples given from later Greek writers, in Winer, edn. 6, § 41,  b. 1.  b ,  c )  the true One (i. e. God: cf. John 17:3 , ἵνα γινώσκωσίν (- ουσιν al.) σε τὸν μόνον ἀληθινὸν θεόν . The adjective ἀληθινόν is not subjective, = ἁληθῆ , but objective, in its usual sense of genuine, in distinction from every ‘deus fictitius.’ So Calvin: “verum Deum intelligit non veracem, sed cum qui revera Deus est eum ab idolis omnibus discernat. Ita verus fictitio opponitur.” And thus the way is prepared for the warning against all false gods, 1Jn 5:21 ):  and we are (again, as in 1 John 5:18-19 , this second member is an independent proposition, not dependent on the  ὅτι nor on the  ἵνα as in the vulgate, “et simus …”)  in (see above on  κεῖται ἐν , 1Jn 5:19 )  the true One (viz. God, as above),  in His Son Jesus Christ (i. e. by virtue of our being in His Son Jesus Christ: this second  ἐν is not in apposition with, but as  αὐτοῦ shews, is epexegetic of the former).  This (viz. God, the Father: the ὁ ἀληθινός , who has been twice spoken of: see below)  is the true God, and eternal life . There has been great controversy, carried on principally from doctrinal interests, respecting the reference of this οὗτος : whether it is to be understood as above, or of ὁ υἱὸς αὐτοῦ Ἰησοῦς χριστός , just mentioned. The Fathers who were engaged against Arian error, and most of the orthodox expositors since, regarding the passage as a precious testimony for the Godhead of the Son, have maintained this latter view, rather doctrinally than exegetically. To this list belong Bed [82] , Lyra, a-Lapide, Tirinus, Barthol.-Petrus (the continuator of Estius), Mayer, Luther, Calvin, Beza, Aretius, Piscator, Erasm.-Schmidt, Seb.-Schmidt, Spener, Whitby, Calov., Wolf, Joach. Lange, Bengel, Sander, Stier: and even Episcopius takes this view, not being able, says Düsterd., to bear the caprice and tortuousness of the Socinian exegesis. The opposite doctrinal interest has led many of those who deny this application: e. g. Schlichting (who combats the other view simply by abusing the Trinitarians), Socinus, Grotius, Benson, Samuel Clarke, Semler, which last takes οὗτος in as far as it belongs to ἀληθ . θεός as referring to the Father, in as far as to ζωὴ αἰώνιος , to the Son. To these have succeeded another set of expositors with whom not doctrinal but exegetical considerations have been paramount: e. g. Wetstein, Lücke, De Wette, Rickli, Baumg.-Crusius, Neander, Huther, Hofmann (Schriftb. i. 128), Düsterdieck, Erdmann.
	 [82] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	The grounds on which the application to Christ is rested are mainly the following: 1) that οὗτος most naturally refers to the last-mentioned substantive: 2) that ζωὴ αἰώνιος , as a predicate, more naturally belongs to the Son than to the Father: 3) that the sentence, if understood of God the Father, would be aimless and tautological. But to these it has been well and decisively answered by Lücke and Düsterd., 1) that οὗτος more than once in St. John belongs not to the nearest substantive, but to the principal one in the foregoing sentence, e. g. in ch. 1Jn 2:22 and in 2 John 1:7 ; and that the subject of the whole here has been the Father, who is the ὁ ἀληθινός of the last verse, and the Son is referred back to Him as ὁ υἱὸς  αὐτοῦ , thereby keeping  Him , as the primary subject, before the mind. 2) that as little can ζωὴ αἰώνιος be an actual predicate of Christ as of the Father. He is indeed ἡ ζωή ch. 1 John 1:2 , but not ἡ ζωὴ  αἰώνιος . Such an expression used predicatively, leads us to look for some expression of our Lord’s, or for some meaning which does not appear on the surface to guide us. And such an expression leading to such a meaning we have in John 17:3 , αὕτη δέ ἐστιν ἡ αἰώνιος ζωή , ἵνα γινώσκωσίν σε τὸν μόνον ἀληθινὸν θεόν , καὶ ὃν ἀπέστειλας Ἰησοῦν χριστόν . He is eternal life in Himself, as being the fount and origin of it: He is it to us, seeing that to know Him is to possess it. I own I cannot see, after this saying of our Lord with σὲ τὸν μόνον ἀληθθεόν , how any one can imagine that the same Apostle can have had in these words any other reference than that which is given in those: 3) this charge is altogether inaccurate. As referred to the Father, there is in it no tautology and no aimlessness. It serves to identify the ὁ ἀληθινός mentioned before, in a solemn manner, and leads on to the concluding warning against false gods. As in another place the Apostle intensifies the non-possession of the Son by including in it the alienation from the Father also, so here at the close of all, the ἀληθινὸς θεός , the fount of ζωὴ αἰώνιος , is put before us as the ultimate aim and end, to be approached ἐν τῷ υἱῷ αὐτοῦ , but Himself the One Father both of Him and of us who live through Him.