2 Peter 2:3.  and in  covetousness by feigned speeches they will make merchandise of you. The verb rendered ‘make merchandise of’ occurs but once again in the N. T., viz. in James 4:13, where it is translated ‘buy and sell.’ In later Classical Greek, and also in the Septuagint (comp. Proverbs 3:14), it occurs with the sense of  gaining over.  Hence some interpreters think that here it expresses the desire of the false teachers to win adherents. The more usual sense of the verb, however, is to  make gain  of an object. The idea, therefore, is rather that the false teachers, known for their life of sheer covetousness, and having greed for their great motive, will use their deluded followers for purposes of gain, employing artful speeches (perhaps on the subject of Christian liberty, as some suggest) as their weapons in the base traffic with souls. The sentence thus uncovers darker deeps in the corruptness of their character and the baseness of their aims. This evil distinction appears again in 2 Peter 2:14-15. It is given in terms not less strong by Jude (Jude 1:11; Jude 1:16). Compare also the indignant declarations on a like sordid state of matters, which are made by Paul (1 Timothy 6:5; Titus 1:11). The epithet ‘feigned’ is peculiar to this passage. With these ‘made up,’ or ‘craftily constructed’ speeches, compare also the ‘good words and fair speeches’ with which Paul tells us some who caused divisions and offences deceived the hearts of the simple (Romans 16:18).
	 whose judgment now from of old lingereth not.  Literally it runs thus: ‘for whom the sentence now from of old lingereth not.’ The sentence of a righteous Judge is represented as having been pronounced against them from of old, as on the wing now, and as certain to descend. The   phrase here translated ‘from of old’ occurs only here and in 2 Peter 3:5. The verb rendered ‘lingereth’ is peculiar to this passage. It  s  cognate adjective, however, occurs in chap. 2 Peter 1:8; where see Note.
	 and their destruction slumbereth not.  The verb ‘slumber’ occurs only once again, viz. in the parable of the Virgins (Matthew 25:5). Literally it means  to nod.  The ‘destruction’ (the ‘damnation’ of the A. V. is inexact) is represented as a living thing awake and expectant. ‘Long ago that judgment started on its destroying path, and the fate of sinning angels, and the deluge, and the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, were but incidental illustrations of its power, nor has it ever since “  lingered”  as if now it had no work on hand, or for  a  moment slumbered on the way. It advances still, strong and vigilant as when first it sprang from the bosom of God, and will not fail to reach the mark to which it was pointed “  from of old” (Lillie).
	