 15. ]  if any man’s work shall be burnt up (i.e. consist of such materials as the fire will destroy: Stanley adds, “It is possible that this whole image, as addressed to the Corinthians, may have been suggested, or at least illustrated, by the conflagration of Corinth under Mummius: the stately temples (one of them remaining to this day) left standing amidst the universal crash and destruction of the meaner buildings”),  he shall [  suffer loss (literally,)  be mulcted . ζημιωθ ., scil. τὸν μισθόν , see ref. Matt., and Herod. vii. 39, τοῦ δὲ ἑνός , τοῦ περιέχεαι μάλιστα , τὴν ψυχὴν ζημιώσεαι , and Plato, Legg., vi. p. 774, εἰς μὲν οὖν χρήματα ὁ μὴ θέλων γαμεῖν τοσαῦτα ζημιούσθω ):  but he himself shall be saved (having held, and built on, the true foundation Jesus Christ, he shall not be excluded from that salvation which is the  free gift of God to all who believe on Christ, but shall get no  especial reward as a faithful and effectual teacher. Cf. 2 John 1:8 , βλέπετε ἑαυτούς , ἵνα μὴ  ἀπολέσητε ἃ εἰργασάμεθα , ἀλλὰ  μισθὸνπλήρη ἀπολάβητε . Meyer remarks, that our Lord hints at such persons under the name of ἔσχατοι , Matthew 20:16 ; Mar 10:31 ),  but so, as through fire : i.e. as a builder whose building was consumed would escape with personal safety, but with the loss of his work.
	Chrys., Theophyl., Œc [8] , strangely understand it, that he shall be burnt for ever in the fire of Hell, unconsumed: οὐχὶ καὶ αὐτὸς οὕτως ἀπολεῖται ὡς τὰ ἔργα , εἰς τὸ μηδὲν χωρῶν · ἀλλὰ μενεῖ ἐν τῷ πυρί , Chrys. σώζεται , τουτέστι , σῶος τηρεῖται . δίκας αἰωνίους ὑπέχων , Theophyl. But (1) the  fire of Hell is quite alien from the context (see above), and (2) the meaning given to σώζεσθαι is unexampled, and least of all could be intended where the coming of the Lord is spoken of: cf.  inter alia , ch. 1 Corinthians 5:5 , παραδοῦναι κ . τ . λ .… ἵνα  τὸ πνεῦμα σωθῇ ἐν τῇ ἡμέρᾳ τ  .   κυρίου .
	 [8] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	Grot., Elsn., al., explain ὡς διὰ πυρός as a proverb, ‘  tanquam ex incendio ,’ for ‘with difficulty.’ But this is needless here, as the  figure itself is that of an ‘incendium:’ and ὡς is  not ‘  tanquam ,’ but belongs to οὕτως , see reff.
	The whole imagery of the passage will be best understood by carefully keeping in mind the  key , which is to be found in the θεοῦ οἰκοδομή , and the ναὸς θεοῦ , as connected with the prophecy of Malachi 3:4 . There, ἐξαίφνης ἥξει εἰς τὸν ναὸν ἑαυτοῦ κύριος … αὐτὸς εἰσπορεύεται ὡς πῦρ χωνευτηρίου … καθιεῖται χωνεύων καὶ καθαρίζων ὡς τὸ ἀργύριον καὶ ὡς τὸ χρυσίον .… διότι ἰδοὺ ἡμέρα (add κυρίου A) ἔρχεται καιομένη ὡς κλίβανος , κ . φλέξει αὐτούς , καὶ ἔσονται … καλάμη , κ . ἀνάψει αὐτοὺς ἡ ἡμέρα ἡ ἐρχομένη . The Lord thus coming to His temple in flaming fire, all the parts of the building which will not stand that fire will be consumed: the builders of them will escape with personal salvation, but with the loss of their work, through the midst of the conflagration.