 1. ]  κἀγώ ,  I also ; i.e. as well as the ψυχικός , was compelled to stand on this lower ground, he, because  he cannot understand the things of the Spirit of God: I, because  you could not receive them . Or perhaps better, with Stanley, ‘ καὶ ἐγώ , as in 1 Corinthians 2:1 , “What I have just been saying, was exemplified in our practice.” ’
	σαρκίνοις is certainly the true reading, being, besides its manuscript authority, required by the sense. He was compelled to speak to them (this affirmative clause is to be supplied from the former negative one)  as to men of flesh : not ὡς σαρκικοῖς , for that they  really were , and he asserts them yet to be, 1 Corinthians 3:3 . I quite agree with Meyer (against De Wette) that the distinction between σάρκινοι and σαρκικοί is  designed by the Apostle, and further regard it as implied in the very form of the sentences. Here, he says that he was compelled to speak to them  as if they were  only of flesh, as if they were  babes , using in both cases the material comparison, and the particle of comparison ὡς . But in 1Co 3:3 he drops comparison, and asserts matter of fact ‘Are ye not  still σαρκικοί (= ὡς σάρκινοι ), fleshly, carnal, living after the flesh, resisting the Spirit?’ q. d. ‘I was obliged to regard you as mere  men of flesh , without the Spirit: and it is not far different even now: ye are yet  fleshly ye retain the same character.’
	Both the σάρκινοι , the mere men of the flesh, and the σαρκικοί , the carnally disposed, are included under the more general ψυχικοί , which therefore, as Meyer observes, is not here used, because this distinction was to be made.
	 ὡς νηπ  .   ἐν χρ .] The opposite term, τέλειοι ἐν χρ ., is found Colossians 1:28 , and in connexion with this, Hebrews 5:13-14 . Schöttgen (on 1Pe 2:2 ) and Lightfoot adduce the similar Rabbinical term תִּינוֹקוֹת ,  sugentes , used of novices in their schools. A recent proselyte also was regarded by them as a newborn infant.
	He speaks of his first visit to Corinth, when they were recently admitted into the faith of Christ, and excuses his merely elementary teaching by the fact that they then required it.  Not this , but their  still requiring it , is adduced as matter of blame to them.