 12. ] The  δέ implies that though there can be but one foundation, there are  many ways of building upon it .
	To the right understanding of this verse it may be necessary to remark, (1) that the similitude is, not of  many buildings , as Wetst. and Billroth, but of  one , see 1 Corinthians 3:16 , and that [one,] raised  on Christ as its foundation ; different parts of which are built by the ministers who work under Him, some well and substantially built, some ill and unsubstantially. (2) That gold, silver, &c., refer to the  matter of the ministers’ teaching,  primarily ; and by inference to those whom that teaching penetrates and builds up in Christ, who should be the living stones of the temple: not, as Orig [3] , Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Phot [4] , Aug [5] , Jer [6] , &c., to the moral fruits produced by the preaching in the individual members of the church, εἴ τις κακὸν βίον ἔχει μετὰ πίστεως ὀρθῆς , οὐ προστήσεται αὐτοῦ ἡ πίστις εἰς τὸ μὴ κολάζεσθαι , Chrys. Hom. ix. p. 77. (3) That the builder of the worthless and unsubstantial  is in the end SAVED (see below): so that even  his preaching was  preaching of Christ , and  he himself was in earnest . (4) That what is said does not refer, except by accommodation, to  the religious life of believers in general as Olsh., Schrader, see also the ancient Commentators above: but to the DUTY AND REWARD OF TEACHERS. At the same time, such accommodation is legitimate,  in so far as each man is a teacher and builder of himself . (5) That the various materials specified must not be fancifully pressed to indicate  particular doctrines or graces , as e.g. Schrader has done, “Some build with the gold of faith, with the silver of hope, with the imperishable costly stones of love, others again with the dead wood of unfruitfulness in good works, with the empty straw of a spiritless, ostentatious knowledge, and with the bending reed of a continually-doubting spirit.” Der Apostel Paulus, iv. p. 66. This, however ingenious, is beside the mark, not being justified by any indications furnished in our Epistle itself. An elaborate résumé of the very various minor differences of interpretation may be seen in Meyer’s Comm. Exodus 2:0 , in loc. Cf. also Estius’s note; and Stanley’s.
	 [3] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [4] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	 [5]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [6]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	 λίθους τιμίους ] Not ‘  gems ,’ but ‘  costly stones ,’ as marbles, porphyry, jasper, &c., compare 1 Kings 7:9 ff.
	By the ξύλα , χόρτον , καλάμην , he indicates the various perversions of true doctrine, and admixtures of false philosophy which were current: so Estius, “doctrina non quidem hæretica et perniciosa,  talis enim fundamentum destrueret : sed minus sincera, minusque solida; veluti si sit humanis ac philosophicis, aut etiam Judaicis opinionibus admixta plus satis: si curiosa magis quam utilis; si vana quadam oblectatione mentes occupans Christianas.” Comm. i. p. 268 B.