 13. ]  Each man’s work (i.e. that which he has built:  his part in erecting the οἰκοδομὴ θεοῦ )  shall (at some time)  be made evident (shall not always remain in the present uncertainty, but be tested, and shewn of what sort it is):  for the day shall make it manifest (the  day of the Lord , as Vulg., ‘dies domini:’ see reff., and so most Commentators, ancient and modern. The other interpretations are (1) ‘  the day  of the destruction of Jerusalem ,’ which shall shew the vanity of Judaizing doctrines: so Hammond (but not clearly nor exclusively), Lightf., Schöttg., al., against both the context, and our Apostle’s habit of speaking, and under the assumption, that nothing but Jewish errors are spoken of: (2) ‘  the lapse of time ,’ as in the proverb, ‘  dies docebit ;’ so Grot., Wolf, Mosheim, Rosenm., al., which is still more inconsistent with the context, which necessitates a definite  day , and a definite  fire : (3) ‘  the light of day ,’ i.e. of clear knowledge, as opposed to the present time of obscurity and night: so Calv., Beza, Erasm.: but the fire here is not a  light-giving , but a  consuming flame; and, as Meyer remarks, even in that case the ἡμέρα would be that of the παρουσία , see Romans 13:12 : (4) ‘  the day of tribulation :’ so Augustine, Calov.: but this again is not definite enough: μισθὸν λήμψεται can hardly be said of mere abiding the test of tribulation);  because it (the  day not, the  work , as Theophyl., Œcum., al., which would introduce a mere tautology with the next clause)  is (to be)  revealed (the present ἀποκαλύπτεται expresses the definite certainty of prophecy: or perhaps rather the  attribute of that day, which is, to be revealed, &c., as in the expressions ὁ πειράζων , ὁ σπείρων , &c.)  in fire (‘accompanied,’ ‘clothed,’ ‘girt,’ ‘with fire;’ i.e. fire will be  the element in which the day will be revealed. Cf. 2 Thessalonians 1:8 , and Malachi 3:2-3 ; Malachi 4:1 , to which latter place the reference is, see LXX. But notice, that this is  not the fire of hell , into which the gold, silver, and costly stones will never enter, but the  fire of judgment , in which Christ will appear, and by which  all works will be tried . This  universality of trial by fire is equally against the idea of a  purgatorial fire , which lucrative fiction has been mainly based by the Romanists on a perversion of this passage. See Aug [7] de Civ. Dei, xxi. 26. 4, vol. vii. p. 745, who mentions the idea with ‘non redarguo, quia forsitan verum est.’ See Estius, who does not maintain the allusion to Purgatory here; and Bisping, who does),  and each man’s work, of what kind it is, the fire itself shall try (this clause does not depend upon ὅτι , but ranges with the following futures. It is a question whether ἔργον is nom. or acc.,  of what kind each man’s work is (Meyer), or as above. In the only other places where Paul uses ὁποῖος , Galatians 2:6 , 1 Thessalonians 1:9 (see also Act 26:29 ), it commences a clause, as here if ἔργον be accus.; we have a very similar expression, Galatians 6:4 , τὸ ἔργον ἑαυτοῦ δοκιμαζέτω ἕκαστος : and it seems more natural that the  action of the fire should be described as directly passing upon the work. For these reasons, I prefer the accus. τὸ πῦρ  αὐτό , the fire itself, of its own power, being a πῦρ καταναλίσκον .
	 [7]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430