18.Behold Israel after the flesh He establishes it by another example, that such is the nature of all sacred observances, that they bind us in a kind of fellowship with God. For the law of Moses admits no one to a feast upon a sacrifice, but the man who has duly prepared himself. I speak not of priests merely, but of those among the common people who eat of the remains of the sacrifice. Hence it follows, that all who eat of the flesh of the sacrificed victim, are partakers with the altar, that is, of the sanctification, with which God has set apart his Temple, and the sacred rites that are performed in it. This expression after the flesh, may seem to be added in order that the Corinthians, on comparing the two, might set a higher value on the efficacy of our Supper. “If there was so much virtue in the ancient figures and in those rudiments of youthful education, how much more must we reckon that there is in our mysteries, in which God shines forth much more fully upon us!” At the same time, it is more simple, in my opinion, to say that Paul intended merely by this mark to distinguish the Jews that were still under the law from those that had been converted to Christ. Now there was a contrast that remained to be made — that if the sacred rites appointed by God sanctify those who observe them, pollution, on the other hand, is contracted from the sacred rites rendered to idols. (578) For it is God alone that sanctifies, and hence all strange gods pollute. (579) Again, if mysteries (580) unite and connect believers with God, it follows, that the wicked are in like manner introduced by their superstitious rites into fellowship (581) with idols. But the Apostle, before proceeding to this, answers by an anthypophora (582) (anticipation) a question that might be proposed by way of objection. (578) “Des saerifiees et autres eeremonies des idoles;” — “Sacrifices and other ceremonies rendered to idols.” (579) “Rendent profanes ceux qui les seruent;” — “Render profane those who serve them.” (580) “Les sacremens;” — “The sacraments.” (581) “Vne conionetion et union auec leurs idoles;” — “A connection and union with their idols.” (582) Anthypophora (ἀνθυποφορα) is a figure of speech, by which a speaker anticipates the objections of his opponent, and answers them. — Ed 