For the analysis of the first five verses of this chapter see the analysis of Revelation 21:0. The chapter comprises the remainder of the description of the “New Jerusalem” - the blessed abode of the saints Revelation 22:1-5, and then Revelation 22:6-21 the conclusion or epilogue of the whole book. It is difficult to conceive what induced the author of the division of the New Testament into chapters, to separate the first five verses of this chapter from the preceding chapter. A new chapter should have commenced at Revelation 22:6; for the remainder properly comprises the conclusion of the whole book. Compare the introduction to the notes on the Gospels.Analysis Of Chapter 22:6-20This portion of the Book of Revelation is properly the epilogue, or conclusion. The main purposes of the vision are accomplished; the enemies of the church are quelled; the church is triumphant; the affairs of the world are wound up; the redeemed are received to their blissful, eternal abode; the wicked are cut off; the earth is purified, and the affairs of the universe are fixed on their permanent foundation. A few miscellaneous matters, therefore, close the book: (2)The effect of all these things on John himself, leading him, as in a former case Revelation 19:10, to a disposition to worship him who had been the medium in making to him such extraordinary communications, Revelation 22:8-9. (3)A command not to seal up what had been revealed, since the time was near. These things would soon have their fulfillment, and it was proper that the prophecies should be unsealed, or open, both that the events might be compared with the predictions, and that a persecuted church might be able to see what would be the result of all these things, and to find consolation in the assurance of the final triumph of the Son of God, Revelation 22:10. (4)The fixed and unchangeable state of the righteous and the wicked, Revelation 22:11-13. (5)The blessedness of those who keep the commandments of God, and who enter into the New Jerusalem, Revelation 22:14-15. (7)The universal invitation of the gospel - the language of Jesus himself - giving utterance to his strong desire for the salvation of people, Revelation 22:17. (8)A solemn command not to change anything that had been revealed in this book, either by adding to it or taking from it, Revelation 22:18-19. (9)The assurance that he who had made these revelations would come quickly, and the joyous assent of John to this, and prayer that his advent might soon occur, Revelation 22:20. (10)The benediction, Revelation 22:21.