 13 16 .]  And I saw (notice the curious reading of [120] , which derives some interest from the absence of any participle to signify “  going forth ”)  out of the mouth of the dragon (who is still in the prophetic scene, giving his power to the beast, ch. Rev 13:2 )  and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet (viz. the second beast of ch. Revelation 13:11 ff. Cf. ch. Revelation 19:20 , Rev 20:10 )  three unclean spirits like frogs (in shape and character. In the entire absence of Scripture symbolism, for the only mention of frogs besides this is in, or in regard to, the relation of the plague in Egypt, we can only explain the similitude from the uncleanness, and the pertinacious noise, of the frog. Daubuz quotes from Philo, De Sacr. Abel et Cain, 19, vol. i. p. 176, ἀλλὰ ταῖς ἀψύχοις δόξαις , λέγω δὲ βατράχοις πιεσθείς , ἦχον καὶ ψόφον ἔρημον πραγμάτων ἀποτελοῦσι : from Cicero ad Att., xv. 15, “ranæ ῥητορεύονσι :” and from Artemidorus ii. 15, βἀτραχοι δἑ ἄνδρας νόητας κ . βωμολόχους προσημαίνουσι ),  for (  γάρ gives a reason for ὡς βάτραχοι )  they are spirits of devils doing miracles (this is a plain declaration of the interpretation of these three, and by it the limits of interpretation are clearly set, and must not be overpassed. The explanation of these as any men, or sects of men, is therefore clearly wrong)  which go forth over the kings of the whole earth (it is the uniform testimony of the prophetic Scriptures that the antichristian power shall work signs and wonders as means of deceiving mankind: see Matthew 24:24 ; 2Th 2:9 )  to gather them together to the war of the great day of Almighty God (that day viz. which is explained in detail in the subsequent part of the prophecy, ch. Revelation 19:17 ff. This great gathering of the beast and the kings of the earth against God and the Lamb, is the signal for the immediate and glorious appearing of the Lord. And therefore follows an exhortation to be ready, and clad in the garments of righteousness, when He shall come).  Behold, I come (the Seer speaks in the name of Christ)  as a thief (that personal advent shall happen when many least expect it, when the world is secure in the ungodliness of ages):  blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they (men)  see his shame (the figure is that of one apprehending the thief’s coming, and therefore keeping watch in his clothes, not undressing. In the spiritual sense, the garments are the robe of righteousness put on by faith in Him who is our Righteousness: and the walking naked is that destitution of these garments which will at that day bring shame before assembled men and angels).  And they (the unclean spirits, as is evident from συνήγαγεν being merely a recital of the συναγαγεῖν before: not, the angel of the sixth vial, as Bengel; nor God, as Hengst. and Ebrard)  gathered them together to the place which is called in Hebrew Harmagedon (it is evidently in the meaning of the Hebrew name of this place that its appropriate significance lies. For otherwise why should ἑβραϊστί be prefixed to it? When St. John does this in his Gospel, in the cases of Bethesda, Revelation 5:2 , Gabbatha, Revelation 19:13 , Golgotha, Revelation 19:7 , and in this book in the case of Abaddon, ch. Revelation 9:11 , it is each time not without such reference: see the notes in those places. But this circumstance does not deprive the name of geographical reality: and it is most probable on every account that such reality exists here. The words τὸν τόπον τὸν καλούμενον would surely not be used except of a real place habitually so named, or by a name very like this. Nor need we search far for the place pointed out. הַר־מְנדּוֹ , the mountain of Megiddo, designates at least the neighbourhood where the Canaanitish kings were overthrown by Barak, Judges 5:19 ; an occasion which gave rise to one of the two triumphal songs of Israel recorded in the O. T., and therefore one well worthy of symbolizing the great final overthrow of the Kings of the Earth leagued against Christ. That the name slightly differs from that given in the O. T. where it is the plain ( 2Ch 35:22 ) or the waters (Judg. l, c) of Megiddo, is of slight consequence, and may be owing to a reason which I shall dwell on below. The LXX in both places adopt the form which we have here, Μαγεδώ - δών or - δδώ . Nor must it be forgotten, that Megiddo was connected with another overthrow and slaughter, viz. that of Josiah by Pharaoh-Necho (2 Kings 23:29 ; 2 Kings 2:0 Chron. ubi supra), which though not analogous to this predicted battle in its issue, yet served to keep up the character of the place as one of overthrow and calamity: cf. also Zechariah 12:11 , and the striking description, 2 Chronicles 35:25 , of the ordinance of lamentation for Josiah. At Megiddo also another Jewish King, Ahaziah, died of the wounds received from Jehu, 2 Kings 9:27 . The prefix Har, signifying “mountain,” has its local propriety, see Stanley’s description of the plain of Esdraelon, in the opening of his Sinai and Palestine, ch. 9. And to the fisherman of the lake of Galilee, who would know Megiddo as he saw its background of highland lit up by the morning or evening sun across the plain from his native hills, the name would doubtless be a familiar one. Still there may have been a deeper reason which led to, or at all events justified the prefix. As the name now stands, it has a meaning ominous of the great overthrow which is to take place on the spot. Drusius, believing the word to be merely a mystic one, explains it to be חרמא גדהון , “internecio exercitus eorum,” the overthrow of their army. But, conceding and maintaining the geographical reality, must not we suppose that such a name, with such a sound, so associated with the past, bore to a Hebrew ear, when used of the future, its ominous significance of overthrow? It is remarkable that in Zechariah 12:11 , where the mourning for Josiah is alluded to, the LXX render not in the plain of Megiddo, but ἐν πεδίῳ ἐκκοπτομένου : and this agrees with the interpretation of Andreas here, who supposes the name equivalent to διακοπή ).
	 [120] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .