 1 21 .] THE SEVEN VIALS. See the general remarks on ch. Rev 8:1 for all questions common to the three great series of visions. The following special particulars are here to be noticed: 1) In the description, ch. Revelation 15:1 , which first introduces these plagues, they are plainly called τὰς ἑπτὰ πληγὰς  τὰς ἐσχάτας . There can then be no doubt here, not only that the series, reaches on to the time of the end, but that the whole of it is to be placed close to the same time. And this is borne out by the particulars evolved in the course of the visions themselves For we find that they do not in point of time go back, but at once take up the events of the former visions, and occur during the times of the sounding of the seventh trumpet, when the mystery of God should be finished. 2) As in the seals and in the trumpets, so here again, there is a marked distinction between the first four and the following three. As there, so here, the objects of the first four are the earth, the sea, the springs of waters, and the sun. After this the objects become more particularized: the throne of the beast, the river Euphrates, with the reservation of that peculiar and vague character for the  seventh , which seems to belong to it in all the three series. 3) As before, so now, there is a compendious and anticipatory character about several of the vials, leading us to believe that those of which this is not so plain, partake of this character also. For example, under the  third vial we find an acknowledgment of the divine justice in making those drink blood who shed the blood of saints and prophets. This, there can be little doubt, points on to the judgment on Babylon, in whom, ch. Revelation 18:24 , was found the blood of saints and prophets, and of all that had been slain on the earth. Again, under the  sixth we have the same great gathering to battle which is described in detail, ch. Revelation 19:17-21 . And finally, under the  seventh , we have a compendious anticipatory notice of the judgment of Babylon, hereafter, ch. 7, 8, to be described in detail, and of the great day itself in Revelation 16:20 , also hereafter (ch. Rev 20:11-15 ) to be resumed at more length. 4) As we might expect in the  final plagues, we have no longer, as in the trumpets, a portion of each element affected, but the whole. 5) While in the first four vials the main features of the first four trumpets are reproduced, there is one notable distinction in the case of the  fourth . While by the plague of the fourth trumpet, the sun, moon, and stars are partially darkened, by that of the fourth vial the power of the sun is  increased , and the darkening of the Kingdom of the beast is reserved for the  fifth .
	The minor special features will be noticed as we proceed. On the whole, the series of the vials seems to bear a less general character than the other two. It takes up a particular point in the prophecy, and deals with symbols and persons previously described. It belongs, by its very conditions, exclusively to the time of, or to days approaching very near to the time of, the end: including in itself the subsequent details as far as the end of ch. 20: without however noticing most important features and considerable prophetic periods.