 17 21 .]  And the seventh poured out his vial upon the air (the consequences are presently seen),  and there came forth a voice out of the temple from the throne (the voice, as in Revelation 16:1 , of God Himself. This is rendered even more certain here by the addition of ἀπὸ τοῦ θρόνου )  saying, It is done (the limitation of the meaning of γέγονεν to “that is done which was commanded,” viz. the outpouring of the seven vials, is in fact no limitation: for the plagues are the  last plagues: if therefore they are done, all is done. But the declaration is of course proleptically made, and imports that the outpouring of the seventh vial had done that which should accomplish all and bring in the end. One who had fired a train would say, “It is done,” though the explosion had not yet taken place).  And there were lightnings and voices and thunders (the usual accompaniments of the close of each series of visions, see ch. Revelation 8:5 , Revelation 11:19 . But, as before remarked, these phænomena occur here in rather a different connexion from that in the other two places. Here, they are more the result of the outpouring of the last vial, and they do not conclude, but only begin its effects, which do not cease until the destruction of Babylon and the great overthrow of the antichristian hosts):  and there was a great earthquake (this may perhaps be not without connexion with the pouring out of the vial into the air: in the descriptions of earthquakes we read of the darkened and lurid appearance of the air preceding the shock)  such as was not from the time when there was a man (not, “since man was:” the generic meaning would more probably be expressed by οἱ ἄνθρωποι ἐγένοντο , as altered in rec.)  upon the earth, such (on  τηγικοῦτος , see note on ref. Heb.)  an earthquake so great. And the great city (Rome: cf. ch. Rev 11:8 and note, Revelation 14:8 , Revelation 17:18 , Revelation 18:10 ; Revelation 18:16 ; Revelation 18:18 , &c., 21)  became into (i. e. was divided or split, scil. by the earthquake)  three parts (see ch. Revelation 11:13 , where a similar judgment takes place at the end of the episode of the two witnesses. The  three parts are supposed by Düsterd. to refer to the three arch-enemies just now mentioned. But this is very uncertain: see on the tripartite division at ch. Rev 8:7 ),  and the cities of the nations fell (not only the greatest city, but other great capitals of nations fell, from the violence and extent of the earthquake. We have its further consequences presently):  and Babylon the great (mentioned specially, although really the same (see the places referred to above) with ἡ πόλις ἡ μεγάλη , because of her special adulterous character to be hereafter described, The destruction of the material city of Rome is but the beginning of the execution of vengeance on the mystic Babylon)  was remembered before God (reff.),  to give her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of His wrath (so E. V. for τοῦ θυμοῦ τῆς ὀργῆς ; “excandescentia iræ,” Vitringa. θυμός ( θύω ) is the outbreak, ὀργή the temper of mind. See on Romans 2:8 ; and on the figure of the cup, ch. Revelation 14:8 , note. The sense is, that all these material judgments were but prefatory; the divine intent, in the midst of them, being to make Babylon drink the cup of His wrath in her judgment which follows):  and every island fled (the effects of the earthquake are resumed, the mention of Babylon coming into remembrance being parenthetical, and suggested by the great city having been split into three parts. On the sense, as belonging to the imagery of the great day, see ch. Rev 6:14 ),  and there were found no mountains (not as E. V., “the mountains (  τὰ ὄρη ) were not found.” The expression is far stronger than this: amounting to that in ch. Revelation 6:14 , that every mountain was removed out of its place and was looked for in vain),  and a great hail (see reff. Egypt is again in view)  as of a talent in weight (i. e. having each hailstone of that weight. Diod. Sic. xix. 45 speaks of hailstones of a mina each in weight as being enormous: καταῤῥαγόντων ἐξαίφνης μεγάλων ὄμβρων , καὶ χαλάζης ἀπίστου τὸ μέγεθος , μνααῖαι γὰρ ἔπιπτον , ἔστι δ ʼ ὅτε καὶ μείζους , ὥστε πολλὰς μὲν τῶν οἰκιῶν συμπίπτειν διὰ τὸ βάρος , οὐκ ὀλίγους δὲ καὶ τῶν ἀνθρώπων ἀπόλλυσθαι : and the talent contained  sixty minæ. Josephus, in reff., speaks of the stones which were thrown from the machines in the siege of Jerusalem as each of a talent weight)  descendeth from heaven on men (  τοὺς ἀνθρ . must apparently be generic here: it can hardly mean  the men ; for the plague is universal. See above on Rev 16:9 ):  and men blasphemed God by reason of the plague of the hail, because great is the plague of it exceedingly (i. e. mankind in general, not those who were struck by the hailstones who would instantly die, so far from repenting at this great and final judgment of God, blasphemed Him and were impenitent. The issue is different from that in ch. Revelation 11:13 , where the remnant feared and gave glory to God).