1. Wherefore—Greek,
	"Whence," that is, seeing we have such a sympathizing
	Helper you ought to "consider attentively," "contemplate";
	fix your eyes and mind on Him with a view to profiting by the
	contemplation (Hebrews 12:2). The
	Greek word is often used by Luke, Paul's companion (Luke 12:24;
	Luke 12:27). 
	brethren—in Christ, the
	common bond of union. 
	partakers—"of the
	Holy Ghost." 
	heavenly calling—coming
	to us from heaven, and leading us to heaven whence it comes. Luke 12:27- :, "the high calling"; Greek "the
	calling above," that is, heavenly.
the Apostle and High Priest
	of our profession—There is but one Greek article to both
	nouns, "Him who is at once Apostle and High Priest"—Apostle,
	as Ambassador (a higher designation than "angel"-messenger)
	sent by the Father (John 20:21),
	pleading the cause of God with us; High Priest, as pleading
	our cause with God. Both His Apostleship and High
	Priesthood are comprehended in the one title, Mediator
	[BENGEL]. Though the title
	"Apostle" is nowhere else applied to Christ, it is
	appropriate here in addressing Hebrews, who used the term of the
	delegates sent by the high priest to collect the temple tribute from
	Jews resident in foreign countries, even as Christ was Delegate of
	the Father to this world far off from Him (John 20:21- :). Hence as what applies to Him, applies also to His people,
	the Twelve are designated His apostles, even as He is the Father's
	(John 20:21). It was desirable
	to avoid designating Him here "angel," in order to
	distinguish His nature from that of angels mentioned before, though
	he is "the Angel of the Covenant." The "legate of the
	Church" (Sheliach Tsibbur) offered up the prayers in the
	synagogue in the name of all, and for all. So Jesus, "the
	Apostle of our profession," is delegated to intercede for
	the Church before the Father. The words "of our profession,"
	mark that it is not of the legal ritual, but of our Christian faith,
	that He is the High Priest. Paul compares Him as an Apostle to
	Moses; as High Priest to Aaron. He alone holds both offices combined,
	and in a more eminent degree than either, which those two brothers
	held apart. 
	profession—"confession,"
	corresponds to God having spoken to us by His Son, sent as
	Apostle and High Priest. What God proclaims we confess.