Matthew 4:18.  And walking.  The omission of the word ‘Jesus’ connects this verse closely with what precedes; the ‘walking’ was while preaching (Matthew 4:17). This close connection is brought out more fully in the account of Luke (Luke 5:1-11). As this verse is the beginning of the Gospel for St. Andrew’s day, the name of Jesus was very early inserted for the sake of definiteness.  The sea or lake of Galilee.  The Greek word, like the German  See, is applied to both lakes and seas. This sea of Galilee or lake of Gennesaret, called in the Old Testament. Connereth (Deuteronomy 2:17), or Cinneroth (1 Kings 15:20), is a body of water of oval shape, from twelve to fourteen miles long and about half as broad. It is formed by the river Jordan, although smaller streams flow into it ‘The water is salubrious, fresh and clear; it contains abundance of fish; the banks are picturesque, although at present bare; toward the west they are intersected by calcareous mountains, towards the east the lake is bounded by high mountains ( 800 to 1 , 000 feet high), partly of chalk and partly of basalt formation.’ It is subject to sudden and violent storms and is remarkable for its depression, being 653 feet below the level of the Mediterranean. See Bible Dictionaries.
	 Simon,  contracted from Simeon. He was called first.
	 Who is called Peter,   i.e., ‘so called’ at the time when the Gospel was written, not at the time of the event here narrated. The common version does not bring out this distinction; see chap. Matthew 16:18. At a previous interview, however, (John 1:42) our Lord had declared he should be named ‘Cephas’ (the Aramaic form of the same name).
	 Andrew his brother.  This Greek name shows how common that language was in the East. It is not known which was the elder brother; sometimes one and sometimes the other is named first. Their home was Bethsaida (John 1:44). Andrew and another disciple of John the Baptist, probably the Evangelist John, were the first followers of Jesus (John 1:35-40). They may have remained with him. Philip was called to follow him (John 1:43).
	 Casting a net.  They were busy at their usual avocation,  for they were fishers.  This does not imply special poverty or ignorance.