 37.   πορεύου  ,   κ  .  τ  .  λ  . ] The rendering is as in E. V.,  go and do thou likewise. The καὶ σύ belongs, not to the πορεύου , but to the ποίει , which carries the main stress, the πορεύου being only secondary.
	The lawyer does not answer ‘The Samaritan:’ he avoids this; but he cannot avoid it in conviction and matter of fact.
	 ποίει ὁμ  . , i.e. ‘count all men thy neighbours and love them as thyself.’
	The student accustomed to look at all below the surface of Scripture, will not miss the meaning which lies behind this parable, and which while disclaiming all fanciful allegorizing of the text I do not hesitate to say that our Lord Himself had in view when He uttered it. All acts of charity and mercy done here below, are but fragments and derivatives of  that one great act of mercy which the Saviour came on earth to perform. And as He took on Him the nature of us all, being ‘not ashamed to call us brethren,’ counting us all His kindred, so it is but natural that in holding up a mirror (for such is a parable) of the truth in this matter of duty, we should see in it not only the present and prominent group, but also Himself and His act of mercy behind. And thus we shall not (in spite of the scoffs which are sure to beset such an interpretation, from the superficial school of critics) give up the interpretation of the Fathers and other divines, who see in this poor traveller, going from the heavenly to the accursed city (Joshua 6:26 ; 1Ki 16:34 ),  the race of man, the Adam who fell; in the robbers and murderers,  him who was a murderer from the beginning ( Joh 8:44 ); in the treatment of the traveller, the deep wounds and despoilment which we have inherited from the fall; in the priest and the Levite passing by, the inefficacy of the law and sacrifice to heal and clothe us: Galatians 3:21 (Trench remarks, Parables, p. 316, note, edn. 4, that the Church, by joining the passage Gal 3:16-23 as Epistle, with this Parable as Gospel for the 13th Sunday after Trinity, has stamped this interpretation with her approval): in the good Samaritan, Him of whom it was lately said, “Say we not well that  thou art a Samaritan , and hast a devil?” ( Joh 8:48 ) who came to  bind up the broken-hearted , to give them the  oil of joy for mourning (Isaiah 61:1 ff.); who  for our sakes became poor, that we through His poverty might become rich: who, though now gone from us, has left with us precious gifts, and charged His ministers to feed His lambs, promising them, when the chief Shepherd shall appear, a crown of glory that fadeth not away (1 Peter 5:2 ; 1Pe 5:4 ). Further perhaps it is well not to go; or, if we do, only in our own private meditations, where, if we have the great clue to such interpretations,  knowledge of Christ for ourselves , and a  sound mind under the guidance of His Spirit, we shall not go far wrong. But minutely to allegorize, is to bring the sound spiritual interpretation into disrepute, and throw stumbling-blocks in the way of many, who might otherwise arrive at it.