 18. ]  But (the sight of the Jews is thus intercepted; in contrast to whom) WE all (‘  all Christians :’ not, as Erasm., Estius, Bengel, al. m., ‘we Apostles and teachers: the contrast is to the νἱοὶ Ἰσραήλ above)  with unvailed face (the vail having been removed at our conversion: the stress is on these words)  beholding in a mirror the glory of the Lord (i.e. Christ: from 2 Corinthians 3:16-17 .
	 κατοπτρίζω is to  shew in a mirror, to make a reflexion in a mirror ; so Plutarch, de Placitis Philosophorum, iii. 5: Anaxagoras explained a rainbow to be the reflexion of the sun’s brightness from a thick cloud, that always stands opposite τοῦ κατοπτρίζοντος αὐτὸ ἀστέρος . In the middle, it is ‘  to behold oneself in a mirror :’ so Diog. Laert., Plato, p. 115, τοῖς μεθύουσι συνεβούλευε κατοπτρίζεσθαι ; but also,  to see in a mirror , so Philo, Legis Allegor. iii. 33, vol. i. p. 107, μὴ γὰρ ἐμφανισθείης μοι δι ʼ οὐρανοῦ ἢ γῆς ἢ ὕδατος ἢ ἀέρος ἤ τινος ἁπλῶς τῶν ἐν γενέσει , μηδὲ κατοπτρισαίμην ἐν ἄλλῳ τινὶ τὴν σὴν ἰδέαν , ἢ ἐν σοὶ τῷ θεῷ . And such is evidently the meaning here: the gospel is this mirror, the εὐαγγέλιον  τῆς δόξης τοῦ χριστοῦ , ch. 2 Corinthians 4:4 , and we, looking on it with unvailed face, are the contrast to the Jews, with vailed hearts reading their law. The meaning ‘  reflecting the glory,’ &c. as Chrys., Luth, Calov., Bengel, Billroth, Olsh., is one which neither the word nor the context (see above) will bear (see, however, Stanley’s note),  are transfigured into the same image (which we see in the mirror: the image of the glory of Christ, see Galatians 4:19 , which is more to the point than Romans 8:21 , cited by Meyer, and 1 John 3:3 . But the change here spoken of is a  spiritual one, not the bodily change at the Resurrection: it is going on here in the process of sanctification.
	No prep. need be understood before τὴν αὐτὴν εἰκόνα the passive verb indirectly governs the acc., as in ἀποτέμνομαι τὴν κεφαλήν and similar cases)  from glory to glory (this is explained, either (1) ‘  from one degree of glory to another ;’ so most Commentators and De Wette, or (2) ‘  from (by)  the glory which we see, into glory ,’ as Chrys. p. 486, ἀπὸ δόξης , τῆς τοῦ πνεύματος , εἰς δόξαν , τὴν ἡμετέραν , τὴν ἐγγιγνομένην , Theodoret, Œcum., Theophyl., Bengel, Fritz., Meyer, al. I prefer the former, as the other would introduce a tautology, the sentiment being expressed in the words following)  as by the Lord the Spirit. κυρίου πνεύματος = τοῦ κυρίου τοῦ πνεύματος , the first art. being omitted after the preposition, the second to conform the predicate to its subject, as in ἀπὸ θεοῦ πατρός , Galatians 1:3 , and answers to ὁ δὲ κύριος τὸ πνεῦμά ἐστιν above. This seems the obvious and most satisfactory way of taking the words, and, from 2 Corinthians 3:17 , to be necessitated by the context; and so Theodoret, Luther, Beza, Calov., Wolf, Estius, al. The rendering upheld by Fritz., Billroth, Meyer, De Wette, ‘  the Lord of the Spirit ,’ i.e. ‘Christ, whose Spirit He is,’ seems to me to convey very little meaning, besides being an expression altogether unprecedented. The transformation is effected  by the Spirit ( τοῦτο μεταμορφοῖ , Chrys.), the Author and Upholder of spiritual life, who ‘takes of the things of Christ, and  shews them to us ,’ John 16:14 , see also Romans 8:10-11 , who sanctifies us till we are holy as Christ is holy; the process of renewal after Christ’s image is  such a transformation as may be expected by the agency of ( καθάπερ ἀπό , so Chrys., καὶ τοιαύτην οἵαν εἰκὸς ἀπὸ …)  the Lord the Spirit , Christ Himself  being the image , see ch. 2 Corinthians 4:4 . The two other renderings are out of the question, as being inconsistent with the order of the words: viz.: (1) that of E. V. and of Vulg., Theophyl., Grot., Bengel, ‘  the Spirit of the Lord ,’ and (2) that of Chrys., Theodoret, Calov., Estius, ‘  the Spirit who is the Lord .’
	Meyer objects to the interpretation given above as inconsistent with the  self-evident connexion of the genitives . How would he render ἀπὸ θεοῦ πατρός ?