 14. ]  But (also)  their understandings were hardened (on this, the necessary sense of ἐπωρώθη , see note, Eph 4:18 ). These words evidently refer, as well as what follows, not to the τέλος which they  did not see , but to that which they  did see : to that which answers to the present ἀνάγνωσις τῆς παλαιᾶς διαθήκης , viz. the  word of God imparted by the ministration of Moses . And by these words the transition is made from the form of similitude just used, to that new one which is about to be used; q. d. ‘  not only was there a vail on Moses’s face, to prevent more being known, but also their understandings were darkened: there was, besides, a vail on their hearts .’ So that ἀλλά =  but also , or  moreover .
	To refer this ἀλλ ʼ ἐπωρ . to παῤῥησίᾳ χρώμεθα , to the present hard-heartedness of the Jews under the freedom of speech of the Gospel, as Olsh., De W., al., is, in my view, to miss the whole sense of the passage. No reference whatever is made to the state of the Jews  under the preaching of the gospel , but only as the objects of the O. T. ministration,  then , under the oral teaching of Moses,  now , in the reading of the O. T.
	In order to understand what follows, the change of similitude must be carefully borne in mind.
	 τὸ αὐτὸ κάλυμμα ] ‘the vail once on Moses’s face,’ is now regarded as laid on  their hearts . It denoted the ceasing, the covering up, of his oral teaching; for it was put on  when he had done speaking to the people.  Now , his oral teaching has altogether ceased, and the διακονία is carried on by  a book . But as when we  listen , the speaker is the  agent , and the hearers are  passive , so on the other hand, when we  read, we are the  agents and the book is  passive . The book is the same to all: the difference between those who understand and those who do not understand is now a  subjective difference the vail is no longer on the face of the speaker, but on the  heart of the reader . So that of necessity the form of the similitude is changed.  For (answering to an understood clause, ‘and remain hardened’)  to the present day the same vail (which was once on the face of Moses)  remains at the reading of the Old Testament ( ἡ παλ . διαθ . here, as we now popularly use the words,  the book comprising the ancient Covenant ),  the discovery not being made (by the removal of the vail)  that it (the O. T.)  is done away in Christ (that the Old Covenant has passed away, being superseded by Christ). This I believe to be the only admissible sense of the words,  consistently with the symbolism of the passage . The renderings, ‘  remains not taken away for it (i.e. the vail)  is done away in Christ ,’ and (as E. V.) ‘  remaineth … untaken away … which vail ( ὅ τι )  is done away in Christ ,’ are inadmissible: (1) because they make  καταργεῖται , which throughout the passage belongs to the  glory of the ministry , to apply to the  vail : and (2) because they give no satisfactory sense. It is not  because the vail can only be done away in Christ, that it now remains untaken away on their hearts, but  because their hearts are hardened . Besides, the Apostle would not have expressed it thus, but ἐν χριστῷ γὰρ καταργ . The word ἀνακαλυπτόμενον has been probably chosen, as is often the practice of the Apostle, on account of its relation to κάλυμμα ,  it not being unvailed to them that.…