 13. ]  καὶ οὐ  , and (do) not (place a vail on our face, so Mark 15:8 , ὁ ὄχλος ἤρξατο αἰτεῖσθαι ( ποιεῖν ) καθὼς ἀεὶ ἐποίει αὐτοῖς . See Winer, edn. 6, § 64, i. 1 b.)  as Moses placed a vail on his face, in order that (see below)  the sons of Israel might not look on the termination of the transitory (viz. his διακονία , see 2 Corinthians 3:11 , but spoken of as δεδοξασμένη : ‘the glory of his ministration’). A mistake has been made with regard to the history in Exodus 34:33-35 , which has considerably obscured the understanding of this verse. It is commonly assumed, that Moses  spoke to the Israelites,  having the vail on his face ; and this is implied in our version ‘till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his face.’ But the LXX (and Heb.) gave a different account: καὶ  ἐπειδὴ κατέπαυσεν λαλῶν πρὸς αὐτούς , ἐπέθηκεν ἐπὶ τὸ πρόσωπον αὐτοῦ κάλυμμα . He spoke to them  without the vail, with his face shining and glorified:  when he had done speaking , he placed the vail on his face: and that, not because they were afraid to look on him, but as here,  that they might not look on the end , or the fading,  of that transitory glory ; that they might only see it as long as it was the credential of his ministry, and then it might be withdrawn from their eyes. Thus the declaration of God’s will to them was not ἐν παῤῥησίᾳ , but was interrupted and broken by intervals of concealment, which ours is not. The opposition is twofold: (1) between the  vailed and the  unvailed ministry, quoad the mere fact of concealment in the one case, and openness in the other: (2) between the ministry which was  suspended by the vailing, that its τέλος might not be seen, and that which proceeds ἀπὸ δόξης εἰς δόξαν ,  having no termination . On the common interpretation, Commentators have found an almost insuperable difficulty in πρὸς τὸ μὴ ἀτ . The usual escape from it has been to render it, ‘so that the Israelities could not,’ as in 2 Corinthians 3:7 . De Wette somewhat modifies this, and sees in it the  divine purpose: ‘in order that,’ but not in the intention of Moses, but of God’s Providence. But both these renderings are ungrammatical. πρὸς τό with an infinitive  never signifies the mere result , nor, as Meyer rightly remarks against De Wette, the  objective purpose, but always the  subjective purpose present to the mind of the actor : he refers to Matthew 5:28 ; Matthew 6:1 ; Matthew 13:30 ; Matthew 23:5 ; Mark 13:22 ; Ephesians 6:11 ; 1 Thessalonians 2:9 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:8 ; James 3:3 (rec.); and Matthew 26:12 (see my note there). I may remark also, that the narrative in Exodus, the LXX version of which the Apostle here closely follows (see below on 2Co 3:16 ), implies that the brightness of Moses’s face had  place not on that one occasion only, but throughout his whole ministry between the Lord and the people.  When he ceased speaking to them , he  put on the vail ; but  whensoever he went in before the Lord to speak to Him, the  vail was removed till he came out, and  had spoken to the Israelites all that the Lord had commanded him , during which speaking they saw that his face shone, and after which speaking he  again put on the vail . So that the vail was the symbol of concealment and transitoriness: the part revealed they might see: beyond that, they could not: the ministry was a broken, interrupted one; its end was wrapped in obscurity.
	In the τέλος τοῦ καταργ . we must not think, as some Commentators have done, of  Christ ( Rom 10:4 ), any further than it may be hinted in the background that when the law came to an end, He appeared.