14. He who has thus been shown
	to be the "Captain (Greek, 'Leader') of salvation"
	to the "many sons," by trusting and suffering
	like them, must therefore become man like them, in order that
	His death may be efficacious for them [ALFORD].
	the children—before
	mentioned (Hebrews 2:13); those
	existing in His eternal purpose, though not in actual being. 
	are partakers of—literally,
	"have (in His purpose) been partakers" all in common. 
	flesh and blood—Greek
	oldest manuscripts have "blood and flesh." The inner and
	more important element, the blood, as the more immediate
	vehicle of the soul, stands before the more palpable element, the
	flesh; also, with reference to Christ's blood-shedding with a
	view to which He entered into community with our corporeal
	life. "The life of the flesh is in the blood; it
	is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul" (Leviticus 17:11;
	Leviticus 17:14). 
	also—Greek, "in
	a somewhat similar manner"; not altogether in a
	like manner. For He, unlike them, was conceived and born not in sin
	(Hebrews 4:15). But mainly "in
	like manner"; not in mere semblance of a body, as the
	Docetæ heretics taught. 
	took part of—participated
	in. The forfeited inheritance (according to Jewish law) was ransomed
	by the nearest of kin; so Jesus became our nearest of kin by His
	assumed humanity, in order to be our Redeemer. 
	that through death—which
	He could not have undergone as God but only by becoming man. Not by
	Almighty power but by His death (so the Greek) He
	overcame death. "Jesus suffering death overcame; Satan wielding
	death succumbed" [BENGEL].
	As David cut off the head of Goliath with the giant's own sword
	wherewith the latter was wont to win his victories. Coming to redeem
	mankind, Christ made Himself a sort of hook to destroy the devil; for
	in Him there was His humanity to attract the devourer to Him, His
	divinity to pierce him, apparent weakness to provoke, hidden power to
	transfix the hungry ravisher. The Latin epigram says, Mors
	mortis morti mortem nisi morte tu lisset, Æternæ vitæ janua
	clausa foret. "Had not death by death borne to death the
	death of Death, the gate of eternal life would have been closed".
	destroy—literally,
	"render powerless"; deprive of all power to hurt His
	people. "That thou mightest still the enemy and avenger"
	(Psalms 8:2). The same Greek
	verb is used in 2 Timothy 1:10,
	"abolished death." There is no more death for believers.
	Christ plants in them an undying seed, the germ of heavenly
	immortality, though believers have to pass through natural death. 
	power—Satan is "strong"
	(Matthew 12:29). 
	of death—implying that
	death itself is a power which, though originally
	foreign to human nature, now reigns over it (Romans 5:12;
	Romans 6:9). The power which death
	has Satan wields. The author of sin is the author of its
	consequences. Compare "power of the enemy" (Romans 6:9- :). Satan has acquired over man (by God's law, Genesis 2:17;
	Romans 6:23) the power of death by
	man's sin, death being the executioner of sin, and man being Satan's
	"lawful captive." Jesus, by dying, has made the
	dying His own (Romans 14:9), and
	has taken the prey from the mighty. Death's power was manifest; he
	who wielded that power, lurking beneath it, is here expressed,
	namely, Satan. Wisdom 2:24, "By the envy of the devil, death
	entered into the world."