13. I will put my trust in him—from
	the Septuagint, Isaiah 8:17,
	which immediately precedes the next quotation, "Behold, I and
	the children," c. The only objection is the following words,
	"and again," usually introduce a new quotation,
	whereas these two are parts of one and the same passage. However,
	this objection is not valid, as the two clauses express distinct
	ideas "I will put my trust in Him" expresses His filial
	confidence in God as His Father, to whom He flees from His
	sufferings, and is not disappointed; which His believing brethren
	imitate, trusting solely in the Father through Christ, and not
	in their own merits. "Christ exhibited this "trust,"
	not for Himself, for He and the Father are one, but for His own
	people" (Hebrews 2:16). Each
	fresh aid given Him assured Him, as it does them, of aid for the
	future, until the complete victory was obtained over death and hell
	Philippians 1:16 [BENGEL].
	Behold I and the children,
	c.— (Isaiah 8:18). "Sons"
	(Hebrews 2:10), "brethren"
	(Hebrews 2:12), and "children,"
	imply His right and property in them from everlasting. He speaks of
	them as "children" of God, though not yet in being, yet
	considered as such in His purpose, and presents them before
	God the Father, who has given Him them, to be glorified with Himself.
	Isaiah (meaning "salvation of Jehovah") typically
	represented Messiah, who is at once Father and Son, Isaiah and
	Immanuel (Isaiah 9:6). He expresses
	his resolve to rely, he and his children, not like Ahaz and the Jews
	on the Assyrian king, against the confederacy of Pekah of Israel, and
	Rezin of Syria, but on Jehovah and then foretells the deliverance of
	Judah by God, in language which finds its antitypical full
	realization only in the far greater deliverance wrought by Messiah.
	Christ, the antitypical Prophet, similarly, instead of the human
	confidences of His age, Himself, and with Him GOD
	THE FATHER'S
	children (who are therefore His children, and so
	antitypical to Isaiah's children, though here regarded as His
	"brethren," compare Isaiah 9:6- :; "Father" and "His seed," Isaiah 9:6- :) led by Him, trust wholly in God for salvation. The
	official words and acts of all the prophets find their antitype in
	the Great Prophet (Revelation 19:10),
	just as His kingly office is antitypical to that of the theocratic
	kings; and His priestly office to the types and rites of the Aaronic
	priesthood.