11. he that sanctifieth—Christ
	who once for all consecrates His people to God ( :-, bringing them nigh to Him as the consequence) and everlasting
	glory, by having consecrated Himself for them in His being made
	"perfect (as their expiatory sacrifice) through sufferings"
	(Hebrews 2:10; Hebrews 10:10;
	Hebrews 10:14; Hebrews 10:29;
	John 17:17; John 17:19).
	God in His electing love, by Christ's finished work, perfectly
	sanctifies them to God's service and to heaven once for all:
	then they are progressively sanctified by the transforming
	Spirit "Sanctification is glory working in embryo; glory is
	sanctification come to the birth, and manifested" [ALFORD].
	they who are
	sanctified—Greek, "they that are being sanctified"
	(compare the use of "sanctified," John 17:19- :). 
	of one—Father, God: not
	in the sense wherein He is Father of all beings, as angels;
	for these are excluded by the argument (John 17:19- :); but as He is Father of His spiritual human sons,
	Christ the Head and elder Brother, and His believing people, the
	members of the body and family. Thus, this and the following verses
	are meant to justify his having said, "many sons"
	(Hebrews 2:10). "Of one"
	is not "of one father Adam," or "Abraham,"
	as BENGEL and others
	suppose. For the Saviour's participation in the lowness of our
	humanity is not mentioned till Hebrews 2:10- :, and then as a consequence of what precedes. Moreover, "Sons
	of God" is, in Scripture usage, the dignity obtained by
	our union with Christ; and our brotherhood with Him flows from
	God being His and our Father. Christ's Sonship
	(by generation) in relation to God is reflected in the sonship (by
	adoption) of His brethren. 
	he is not ashamed—though
	being the Son of God, since they have now by adoption obtained
	a like dignity, so that His majesty is not compromised by brotherhood
	with them (compare Hebrews 11:16).
	It is a striking feature in Christianity that it unites such amazing
	contrasts as "our brother and our God" [THOLUCK].
	"God makes of sons of men sons of God, because God hath made of
	the Son of God the Son of man" [ST.
	AUGUSTINE on Psalm 2].