9. But—We see not man
	as yet exercising lordship over all things, "but rather,
	Him who was made a little lower than the angels (compare  :-), we behold (by faith: a different Greek verb
	from that for 'we see,'  :-, which expresses the impression which our eyes passively
	receive from objects around us; whereas, 'we behold,' or 'look at,'
	implies the direction and intention of one deliberately
	regarding something which he tries to see: so Hebrews 3:19;
	Hebrews 10:25, Greek), namely,
	Jesus, on account of His suffering of death, crowned," c. He is
	already crowned, though unseen by us, save by faith hereafter all
	things shall be subjected to Him visibly and fully. The ground of His
	exaltation is "on accoumt of His having suffered death"
	(Hebrews 2:10; Philippians 2:8;
	Philippians 2:9). 
	that he by the grace of God—
	(Titus 2:11; Titus 3:4).
	The reading of ORIGEN,
	"That He without God" (laying aside His Divinity;
	or, for every being save God: or perhaps alluding to His
	having been temporarily "forsaken," as the Sin-bearer, by
	the Father on the cross), is not supported by the manuscripts. The
	"that," c., is connected with "crowned with glory,"
	&c., thus: His exaltation after sufferings is the perfecting
	or consummation of His work (Titus 3:4- :) for us: without it His death would have been ineffectual
	with it, and from it, flows the result that His tasting of death
	is available for (in behalf of, for the good of) every man.
	He is crowned as the Head in heaven of our common humanity,
	presenting His blood as the all-prevailing plea for us. This
	coronation above makes His death applicable for every
	individual man (observe the singular; not merely "for all
	men"), Hebrews 4:14; Hebrews 9:24;
	1 John 2:2. "Taste death"
	implies His personal experimental undergoing of death: death of the
	body, and death (spiritually) of the soul, in His being forsaken of
	the Father. "As a physician first tastes his medicines to
	encourage his sick patient to take them, so Christ, when all men
	feared death, in order to persuade them to be bold in meeting it,
	tasted it Himself, though He had no need" [CHRYSOSTOM].
	(Hebrews 2:14; Hebrews 2:15).