Revelation 11:19. We have here exhibited in act what had just been proclaimed in word (Revelation 11:14-18). As throwing light upon the imagery of Revelation 11:1 and Revelation 11:2 it is important to notice that, when  there was opened the temple of God that is in heaven, there was seen in his temple the ark of his covenant. The word ‘temple’ is apt to mislead, for we immediately think of the temple on Mount Moriah; but the innermost shrine is alone spoken of in the original, that most Holy Place which belonged not only to the later temple but to the Tabernacle in the wilderness. In the former the ark of God’s covenant could not have been seen, for it had disappeared at the destruction of the first temple, long before the days of St. John. The inference is clear that, although the word ‘temple’ is used, it is really the Tabernacle from which the imagery is obtained. No doubt the temple thus spoken of was ‘in heaven,’ but to the eye of the Seer things in heaven were the type and pattern of the heavenly things on earth; and no one who has entered into his spirit will maintain that, if in this verse the shrine of the  Tabernacle  be referred to, it is possible to find another and a different reference for the shrine spoken of in the first verse of the chapter. All arguments, therefore, as to the date of the Apocalypse, drawn from the use of the word ‘temple’ in Revelation 11:1, are necessarily unfounded. It is the Tabernacle as it is described in the Law, not a temple of stone existing in his own day, that is in the writer’s view. The ‘ark of God’s covenant’ is the symbol of God’s covenant love to His people; the type of the Incarnate Lord in whose heart the Law of God is laid up, and who is the ‘propitiatory’ (Romans 3:25) or Mercy-seat.
	And there followed lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail. We have similar judgments at chap. Revelation 8:5, at the close of the seventh seal, and when preparation was made for the sounding of the trumpets. We shall again meet them in chap. Revelation 16:18, at the close of the seventh bowl. We are now, therefore, at the close of the seventh trumpet, and about to enter upon the seven bowls. It will be observed that these ‘lightnings,’ etc., are only exhibited in heaven. They do not yet fall upon the earth, but are symbols of what is to come  .
	