To speak evil of no man - Greek, “to blaspheme (βλασφημεῖν blasphēmein, compare the notes at Matthew 9:3) no one.” Doddridge renders it, “calumniate no one.” The idea is, that we are not to slander, revile, or defame anyone. We are not to say anything to anyone, or of anyone, which will do him injury. We are never to utter anything which we know to be false about him or to give such a coloring to his words or conduct as to do him wrong in any way. We should always so speak to him and of him in such a way that he will have no reason to complain that he is an injured man. It may be necessary, when we are called to state what we know of his character, to say things which are not at all in his favor, or things which he has said or done that were wrong; but, (1)We should never do this for the purpose of doing him injury, or so as to find a pleasure in it; and, (2)Where it is necessary to make the statement, it should be so as to do him no injustice.We should give no improper coloring. We should exaggerate no circumstances. We should never attempt to express ourselves about his motives, or charge on him bad motives - for we know not what his motives were. We should state every palliating circumstance of which we have knowledge, and do entire justice to it. We should not make the bad traits of his character prominent, and pass over all that is good. In a word, we should show that we would rather find him to be a good man than a bad man - even if the result should be that we had been mistaken in our opinions. It is better that we should have been mistaken, than that he should be a bad man.To be no brawlers - See the notes at 1 Timothy 3:3. The same Greek word occurs in both places. It is not elsewhere found in the New Testament.But gentle - The word here used is rendered “moderation” in Philippians 4:5, “patient” in 1 Timothy 3:3, and elsewhere “gentle;” see the notes at 1 Timothy 3:3.Showing all meekness unto all men - In the reception of injuries; see the Matthew 5:5 note; Ephesians 4:2 note.