Verse John 10:10. But for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy — Those who enter into the priesthood that they may enjoy the revenues of the Church, are the basest and vilest of thieves and murderers. Their ungodly conduct is a snare to the simple, and the occasion of much scandal to the cause of Christ. Their doctrine is deadly; they are not commissioned by Christ, and therefore they cannot profit the people. Their character is well pointed out by the Prophet Ezekiel, Ezekiel 34:2, c. Wo be to the shepherds of Israel, that do feed themselves! Ye eat the fat, and ye clothe you with the wool ye kill them that are fed: but ye feed not the flock, c, How can worldly-minded, hireling, fox-hunting, and card-playing priests read these words of the Lord, without trembling to the centre of their souls! Wo to those parents who bring up their children merely for Church honours and emoluments! Suppose a person have all the Church's revenues, if he have God's wo, how miserable is his portion! Let none apply this censure to any one class of preachers, exclusively.That they might have life — My doctrine tends to life, because it is the true doctrine-that of the false and bad shepherds tends to death, because it neither comes from nor can lead to that God who is the fountain of life.Might have it more abundantly. — That they might have an abundance, meaning either of life, or of all necessary good things greater felicity than ever was enjoyed under any period of the Mosaic dispensation; and it is certain that Christians have enjoyed greater blessings and privileges than were ever possessed by the Jews, even in the promised land. If περισσον be considered the accusative fem. Attic, agreeing with ζωην, (see Parkhurst,) then it signifies more abundant life; that is, eternal life; or spiritual blessings much greater than had ever yet been communicated to man, preparing for a glorious immortality. Jesus is come that men may have abundance; abundance of grace, peace, love, life, and salvation. Blessed be Jesus.