56. And his sisters, are they not
	all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? An
	exceedingly difficult question here arises—What were these
	"brethren" and "sisters" to Jesus? Were they,
	First, His full brothers and sisters? or, Secondly,
	Were they His step-brothers and step-sisters, children of Joseph by a
	former marriage? or, Thirdly, Were they cousins, according to
	a common way of speaking among the Jews respecting persons of
	collateral descent? On this subject an immense deal has been written,
	nor are opinions yet by any means agreed. For the second opinion
	there is no ground but a vague tradition, arising probably from the
	wish for some such explanation. The first opinion undoubtedly suits
	the text best in all the places where the parties are certainly
	referred to (Matthew 12:46; and its
	parallels, Mark 3:31; Luke 8:19;
	our present passage, and its parallels, Mark 6:3;
	John 2:12; John 7:3;
	John 7:5; John 7:10;
	Acts 1:14). But, in addition to
	other objections, many of the best interpreters, thinking it in the
	last degree improbable that our Lord, when hanging on the cross,
	would have committed His mother to John if He had had full brothers
	of His own then alive, prefer the third opinion; although, on the
	other hand, it is not to be doubted that our Lord might have good
	reasons for entrusting the guardianship of His doubly widowed mother
	to the beloved disciple in preference even to full brothers of His
	own. Thus dubiously we prefer to leave this vexed question,
	encompassed as it is with difficulties. As to the names here
	mentioned, the first of them, "JAMES,"
	is afterwards called "the Lord's brother" (see on Acts 1:14- :), but is perhaps not to be confounded with "James the
	son of Alphæus," one of the Twelve, though many think their
	identity beyond dispute. This question also is one of considerable
	difficulty, and not without importance; since the James who occupies
	so prominent a place in the Church of Jerusalem, in the latter part
	of the Acts, was apparently the apostle, but is by many regarded as
	"the Lord's brother," while others think their identity
	best suits all the statements. The second of those here named,
	"JOSES" (or
	Joseph), must not be confounded with "Joseph called Barsabas,
	who was surnamed Justus" (Acts 1:14- :); and the third here named, "SIMON,"
	is not to be confounded with Simon the Kananite or Zealot (see on Acts 1:14- :). These three are nowhere else mentioned in the New
	Testament. The fourth and last-named, "JUDAS,"
	can hardly be identical with the apostle of that name—though the
	brothers of both were of the name of "James"—nor (unless
	the two be identical, was this Judas) with the author of the catholic
	Epistle so called.