20. LUTHER
	and BENGEL take this verse
	as consoling the believer whom his heart condemns; and who,
	therefore, like Peter, appeals from conscience to Him who is greater
	than conscience. "Lord, Thou knowest all things: thou
	knowest that I love Thee." Peter's conscience, though condemning
	him of his sin in denying the Lord, assured him of his love;
	but fearing the possibility, owing to his past fall, of deceiving
	himself, he appeals to the all-knowing God: so Paul, 1 Corinthians 4:3;
	1 Corinthians 4:4. So if we be believers,
	even if our heart condemns us of sin in general, yet having
	the one sign of sonship, love, we may still assure our hearts
	(some oldest manuscripts read heart, 1 Corinthians 4:4- :, as well as 1 John 3:20),
	as knowing that God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all
	things. But thus the same Greek is translated "because"
	in the beginning, and "(we know) that" in the middle
	of the verse, and if the verse were consolatory, it probably would
	have been, "Because EVEN
	if our heart condemn us," c. Therefore translate, "Because
	(rendering the reason why it has been stated in 1 John 3:20- : to be so important to 'assure our hearts before Him') if our
	heart condemn (Greek, 'know [aught] against us'
	answering by contrast to 'we shall know that we are of the
	truth') us (it is) because God is greater than our heart and
	knoweth all things." If our heart judges us unfavorably, we may
	be sure that He, knowing more than our heart knows, judges us more
	unfavorably still [ALFORD].
	A similar ellipsis ("it is") occurs in 1 Corinthians 14:27;
	2 Corinthians 1:6; 2 Corinthians 8:23.
	The condemning testimony of our conscience is not alone, but is the
	echo of the voice of Him who is greater and knoweth all things. Our
	hypocrisy in loving by word and tongue, not in deed and
	truth, does not escape even our conscience, though weak and
	knowing but little, how much less God who knows all things! Still the
	consolatory view may be the right one. For the Greek for "we
	shall assure our hearts" (see on 2 Corinthians 8:23- :), is gain over, persuade so as to be stilled,
	implying that there was a previous state of self-condemnation by
	the heart (1 John 3:20),
	which, however, is got over by the consolatory thought, "God
	is greater than my heart" which condemns me, and "knows all
	things" (Greek "ginoskei," "knows,"
	not "kataginoskei," "condemns"),
	and therefore knows my love and desire to serve Him, and knows
	my frame so as to pity my weakness of faith. This gaining
	over the heart to peace is not so advanced a stage as the having
	CONFIDENCE towards God which flows from a heart condemning
	us not. The first "because" thus applies to the two
	alternate cases, 1 John 3:20; 1 John 3:21
	(giving the ground of saying, that having love we shall gain over,
	or assure our minds before Him, 1 John 3:21- :); the second "because" applies to the first
	alternate alone, namely, "if our heart condemn us." When he
	reaches the second alternate, 1 John 3:21- :, he states it independently of the former "because"
	which had connected it with 1 John 3:21- :, inasmuch as CONFIDENCE
	toward God is a farther stage than persuading our hearts,
	though always preceded by it.