52. And the graves were opened; and
	many bodies of the saints which slept arose—These sleeping
	saints (see on  :-) were Old
	Testament believers, who—according to the usual punctuation in our
	version—were quickened into resurrection life at the moment of
	their Lord's death, but lay in their graves till His resurrection,
	when they came forth. But it is far more natural, as we think, and
	consonant with other Scriptures, to understand that only the graves
	were opened, probably by the earthquake, at our Lord's death, and
	this only in preparation for the subsequent exit of those who slept
	in them, when the Spirit of life should enter into them from their
	risen Lord, and along with Him they should come forth, trophies of
	His victory over the grave. Thus, in the opening of the graves at the
	moment of the Redeemer's expiring, there was a glorious symbolical
	proclamation that the death which had just taken place had "swallowed
	up death in victory"; and whereas the saints that slept in them
	were awakened only by their risen Lord, to accompany Him out of the
	tomb, it was fitting that "the Prince of Life . . . should be
	the First that should rise from the dead" (Acts 26:23;
	1 Corinthians 15:20; 1 Corinthians 15:23;
	Colossians 1:18; Revelation 1:5).
	and went into the holy
	city—that city where He, in virtue of whose resurrection they
	were now alive, had been condemned. 
	and appeared unto many—that
	there might be undeniable evidence of their own resurrection first,
	and through it of their Lord's. Thus, while it was not deemed fitting
	that He Himself should appear again in Jerusalem, save to the
	disciples, provision was made that the fact of His resurrection
	should be left in no doubt. It must be observed, however, that the
	resurrection of these sleeping saints was not like those of the widow
	of Nain's son, of Jairus' daughter, of Lazarus, and of the man who
	"revived and stood upon his feet," on his dead body
	touching the bones of Elisha (Revelation 1:5- :) —which were mere temporary recallings of the departed
	spirit to the mortal body, to be followed by a final departure
	of it "till the trumpet shall sound." But this was a
	resurrection once for all, to life everlasting; and so there
	is no room to doubt that they went to glory with their Lord, as
	bright trophies of His victory over death. 
	The Centurion's Testimony
	(Matthew 27:54).