This chapter, 2 Timothy 2:0, is made up of various exhortations and encouragements to duty. The apostle exhorts Timothy to be strong in the Christian graces 2 Timothy 2:1; to commit the great trust which he had received to faithful men 2 Timothy 2:2; to endure hardships like a good soldier 2 Timothy 2:3-7, and refers him: (a)To the case of one who goes to war, whose great business it is to please him in whose service he is 2 Timothy 2:4; (b)To the case of one who strives for a crown at the games 2 Timothy 2:5, and, (c)To the husbandman who looks onward for the reward of his labor; 2 Timothy 2:6.He then, in order to encourage him to be patient in enduring the trials to which he would be exposed, refers him. (a)To the certainty of the truth of that religion in whose cause he would suffer 2 Timothy 2:8; (b)To his own case, reminding him how much he had endured in that cause 2 Timothy 2:9-10; (c)To the fact that our sufferings here will be crowned with certain glory hereafter 2 Timothy 2:11-12; and, (d)To the assurance that the Lord Jesus will be faithful to all his promises to his people; 2 Timothy 2:13.These things the apostle then exhorts him to press upon the hearts of others, that they might not waste their time in unprofitable pursuits, but might engage in the same great and arduous struggle for securing the reward; 2 Timothy 2:14. He then exhorts Timothy to study to perform his duties in such a way that he would not be ashamed and to avoid the unimportant strifes which were then raging; and to enforce this, he refers to a real case with which Timothy was acquainted - that of Hymeneus and Philetus, who, by unprofitable speculations, had been led to deny a fundamental doctrine of religion; 2 Timothy 2:15-18. Yet, Paul says, he should not be discouraged because some had been led into dangerous errors. The foundation of God remained firm. Those that were truly his were known, and would not apostatize; 2 Timothy 2:19. In illustration of this, and to show that it was to be expected that all would not honor religion, the apostle refers to a house in which there were all sorts of vessels, some to honor and some to dishonor, and says that, if any one would endeavor to free himself from all that was base and impure, he would be a vessel meet for the use of the Master; 2 Timothy 2:20-21. To accomplish this, he gives Timothy various directions respecting his conduct. He was to flee from youthful lusts; he was to follow righteousness, faith, charity, and peace; he was to avoid foolish questions; he was to be an example of gentleness and meekness, and he was patiently to instruct those that were of a different character; 2 Timothy 2:22-26.