 1.   ἐν δὲ ταῖς ἡμ  .   ἐκ  . ] The last matter mentioned was the dwelling at Nazareth: and though we must not take the connexion strictly as implying that  Joseph dwelt there all the intermediate thirty years, the ἡμέραι ἐκεῖναι must be understood to mean that we take up the persons of the narrative where we left them; i.e. dwelling at Nazareth. See Exodus 2:11 , LXX.
	 παραγίνεται ]  Comes forward ‘makes his appearance.’ Euthym [19] asks the question, πόθεν ; and answers it, ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνδοτέρας ἐρήμου . But this can hardly be, owing to the ἐν τῇ ἐρήμῳ following. The verb is used absolutely. The title Ἰω . ὁ βαπτ . shews that St. Matthew was writing for those who well knew John the Baptist as an historical personage. Josephus, in mentioning him (Antt. xviii. 5. 2), calls him Ἰωάννης ὁ ἐπικαλούμενος βαπτιστής . John was strictly speaking a  prophet; belonging to the legal dispensation; a rebuker of sin, and preacher of repentance. The expression in St. Luke, ἐγένετο ῥῆμα θεοῦ ἐπὶ Ἰωάννην , is the usual formula for the Divine commission of the Prophets (Jeremiah 1:1 ; Ezekiel 6:1 ; Ezekiel 7:1 , &c.). And the effect of the Holy Spirit on John was more in accordance with the O.T. than the N.T. inspiration; more of a sudden overpowering influence, as in the Prophets, than a gentle indwelling manifested through the individual character, as in the Apostles and Evangelists.
	 [19] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	The baptism of John was of a deeper significance than that usual among the Jews in the case of proselytes, and formed an integral part of his divinely appointed office. It was emphatically the baptism of  repentance ( λουτρὸν μετανοίας , says Olshausen (cf. Luk 3:3 ), but not λουτρὸν παλιγγενεσίας , Tit 3:5 ). We find in Acts 18:24-26 ; Acts 19:1-7 , accounts of persons who had received the baptism of John, who believed and (in Apollos’s case) taught accurately the things (i.e. facts) concerning the Lord; but required instruction (in doctrine) and rebaptizing in the name of the Lord Jesus. Whether the baptism practised by the disciples before the Resurrection was of the same kind, and required this renewal, is uncertain. The fact of our Lord Himself having received baptism from John, is decisive against the identity of the two rites, as also against the idea (Olsh. i. 154, note) derived from Acts 19:4 , that John used the formula βαπτίζω σε εἰς τὸν ἐρχόμενον . His whole mission, as Olsh. well observes, was calculated, in accordance with the office of the law which gives the knowledge of sin ( Rom 3:20 ), to bring men’s minds into that state in which the Redeemer invites them (ch. Mat 11:28 ), as weary and heavy laden, to come to him.
	 ἐν τῇ ἐρήμῳ ] where also he had been brought up, Luke 1:80 . This tract was not strictly a  desert , but thinly peopled, and abounding in pastures for flocks. Josephus, B. J. iii. 10. 7, says, that the Jordan διατέμνει τὴν Γεννήσαρ μέσην , ἔπειτα πολλὴν ἀναμετρούμενος  ἐρημίαν εἰς τὴν Ἀσφαλτῖτιν ἔξεισι λίμνην . See Judges 1:16 ; 1 Kings 2:34 . This ἔρημος answers to πᾶσα περίχωρος τοῦ Ἰορδάνου in Luke 3:3 . See note on ch. Matthew 4:1 .