 16.   βαπτισθείς ] On this account I would make the following remarks. (1) The appearance and voice seem to have been manifested to  our Lord and the Baptist only . They may have been  alone at the time: or, if not, we have an instance in Acts 9:7 , of such an appearance being confined to one person, while the others present were unconscious of it. We can hardly however, with some of the Fathers, say, that it was πνευματικὴ θεωρία , or ὀπτασία , οὐ φύσις τὸ φαινόμενον , Theod. Mopsuest [25] , or ‘Aperiuntur cœli non reseratione elementorum, sed spiritualibus oculis, quibus et Ezechiel in principio voluminis sui apertos eos esse commemorat.’ Jerome in loc. (2) The Holy Spirit descended not only in the  manner of a dove, but σωματικῷ εἴδει ( [26] Luke): which I cannot understand in any but the literal sense, as THE BODILY SHAPE OF A DOVE, seen by the Baptist. There can be no objection to this, the straightforward interpretation of the narrative, which does not equally apply to the Holy Spirit being  visible at all , which John himself asserts Him to have been ( Joh 1:32-34 ), even more expressly than is asserted here. Why the Creator Spirit may not have assumed an organized body bearing symbolical meaning, as well as any other material form, does not seem clear. This was the ancient, and is the  only honest interpretation. All the modern explanations of the ὡσεὶ περιστ . as importing the  manner of coming down, belong, as Meyer has rightly remarked, to the vain rationalistic attempt to reduce down that which is miraculous. The express assertion of Luke, and the fact that all four Evangelists have used the same expression, which they would not have done if it were a mere tertium comparationis, are surely a sufficient refutation of this rationalizing (and, I may add, blundering) interpretation.
	 [25] Mopsuest. Theodore, Bp. of Mopsuestia, 399 428
	 [26] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 εὐθύς belongs to ἀνέβη , not to βαπτ ., nor to ἀνεῴχθ . It is the first member of the conjunctive clause of which καὶ ἰδού is the second as we say,  the moment that Jesus was gone up out of the water, behold. (3) Two circumstances may be noticed respecting the manner of the descent of the Spirit: ( α ) it was,  as a dove: the Spirit as manifested in our Lord was  gentle and  benign . Lord Bacon (Meditationes Sacræ, cited in Trench on the Miracles, p. 37) remarks: “Moses edidit miracula, et profligavit Ægyptios pestibus multis: Elias edidit, et occlusit cœlum ne plueret super terram: Elisæus edidit, et evocavit ursas de deserto quæ laniarent impuberes: Petrus Ananiam sacrilegum hypocritam morte, Paulus Elymam magum cæcitate percussit: sed nihil hujusmodi fecit Jesus. Descendit super eum Spiritus in forma columbæ, de quo dixit, Nescitis cujus Spiritus sitis. Spiritus Jesu, spiritus columbinus: fuerunt illi servi Dei tanquam boves Dei triturantes granum, et conculcantes paleam: sed Jesus agnus Dei sine ira et judiciis.” On the  history of this symbol for the Holy Spirit, see Lücke’s Comm. on John, vol. i. 425. ( β ) This was not a sudden and temporary descent of the Spirit, but a  permanent though special anointing of the Saviour for his holy office. It ‘  abode upon Him ,’ John 1:32 . And from this moment His ministry and mediatorial work (in the active official sense) begins. εὐθέως , the Spirit carries Him away to the wilderness: the day of His return thence (possibly; but see notes on Joh 1:29 ) John points Him out as the Lamb of God: then follows the calling of Andrew, Peter, Philip, and Nathanael, and the third day after is the first miracle at the marriage in Cana. But we must not imagine any  change in the nature or person of our Lord to have taken place at his baptism. The anointing and crowning are but  signs of the official assumption of the power which the king has by a right independent of, and higher than these. (4) The whole narrative is in remarkable parallelism with that of the Transfiguration. There we have our Lord supernaturally glorified in the presence of two great prophetic personages, Moses and Elias, who speak of His decease, on the journey to which He forthwith sets out (ch. Matthew 17:22 , compared with Mat 19:1 ); and accompanied by the same testimony of the voice from heaven, uttering the same words, with an addition accordant with the truth then symbolized. (5) In connexion with apocryphal additions, the following are not without interest: κατελθόντος τοῦ Ἰησοῦ ἐπὶ τὸ ὕδωρ , καὶ πῦρ ἀνήφθη ἐν τῷ Ἰορδάνῃ · καὶ ἀναδύντος αὐτοῦ ἀπὸ τοῦ ὕδατος κ . τ . λ . Justin Martyr, Dial. § 88, p. 185. The author of the tract ‘de Rebaptismate,’ among the works of Cyprian, blames the spurious book called ‘Petri Prædicatio,’ for relating, among other things, of Christ, “cum baptizaretur, ignem super aquam esse visum, quod in evangelio nullo est scriptum.” (ch. 9) The Ebionite gospel, according to Epiphanius, Hær. xxx. 13, vol. i. p. 138, added, after ἐν ᾧ εὐδόκησα , ἐγὼ σήμερον γεγέννηκά σε . καὶ εὐθὺς περιέλαμψε τὸυ τόπον φῶς μέγα . ὃν ἰδὼν ὁ Ἰωάννης λέγει αὐτῷ Σὺ τίς εἶ κύριε ; καὶ πάλιν φωνὴ ἐξ οὐρανοῦ πρὸς αὐτόν · οὗτός ἐστιν ὁ υἱός μου ὁ ἀγαπητός , εἰς ὃν ηὐδόκησα . καὶ τότε ὁ Ἰωάν . προσπεσὼν αὐτῷ ἔλεγε Δέομαί σου κύριε , σύ με βάπτισον . ὁ δὲ ἐκώλυεν αὐτῷ λέγων Ἄφες , ὅτι οὕτως ἐστὶ πρέπον πληρωθῆναι πάντα . Jerome gives the following opening of the narrative from the gospel according to the Hebrews: “Ecce mater domini et fratres ejus dicebant ei Joannes baptista baptizat in remissionem peccatorum: eamus et baptizemur ab eo. Dixit autem eis Quid peccavi ut vadam et baptizer ab eo? nisi forte hoc ipsum quod dixi ignorantia est.”