 7.   Φαρισ  .   καὶ Σαδδ  . ] These two sects, according to Josephus, Antt. xiii. 5. 9, originated at the same period, under Jonathan the High Priest (B.C. 159 144). The Pharisees, deriving their name probably from פָּרַשׁ , ‘he separated’ ( διὰ τὴν ἐθεχοπερισσοθρησκείαν , Epiph. Hær. xvi. 1, vol. i. p. 34), took for their distinctive practice the strict observance of the law and all its requirements, written and oral. They had great power over the people, and are numbered by Josephus, as being, about the time of the death of Herod the Great, above 6000. (Antt. xvii. 2. 4.) We find in the Gospels the Pharisees the most constant opponents of our Lord, and His discourses frequently directed against them. The character of the sect as a whole was  hypocrisy; the outside acknowledgment and honouring of God and his law, but inward and practical denial of Him: which rendered them the enemies of the simplicity and genuineness which characterized our Lord’s teaching. Still among them were undoubtedly pious and worthy men, honourably distinguished from the mass of the sect; John 3:1 ; Acts 5:34 . The various points of their religious and moral belief will be treated of as they occur in the text of the Gospels.
	 Σαδδουκαίων ] Are  said to have derived their name from one Sadok, about the time of Alexander the Great (B.C. 323): but more probably, as stated by Epiphanius, Hær. xiv. 1, vol. i. p. 31, ἐπονομάζουσιν ἑαυτοὺς Σαδδουκαίους δῆθεν ἀπὸ δικαιοσύνης τῆς ἐπικλήσεως ὁρμωμένης · σεδὲκ γὰρ (whence the adjectival form, צַדִּיק , see Genesis 6:9 ; Genesis 18:25 a [21] . fr.) ἑρμηνεύεται δικαιοσύνη . They  rejected all tradition , but did not, as some have supposed, confine their canon of Scripture to the Pentateuch. The denial of a future state does not appear to have been an original tenet of Sadduceism, but to have sprung from its abuse. The particular side of religionism represented by the Sadducees was bare literal moral conformity, without any higher views or hopes. They thus escaped the dangers of tradition, but fell into deadness and worldliness, and a denial of spiritual influence. While our Lord was on earth, this state of mind was very prevalent among the educated classes throughout the Roman empire; and most of the Jews of rank and station were Sadducees.
	 [21] alii = some cursive mss.
	The two sects, mutually hostile, are found frequently in the Gospels united in opposition to our Lord (see ch. Matthew 16:1 ; Matthew 16:6 ; Matthew 16:11 ; Matthew 22:23 ; Matthew 22:34 : also Act 4:1 ); the Pharisees representing hypocritical superstition; the Sadducees, carnal unbelief.
	 ἐρχομένους ]  as they came. It would appear here as if these Pharisees and Sadducees came with others, and because others did, without any worthy motive, and they were probably deterred by his rebuke from undergoing baptism at his hands. We know, from Luke 7:30 , that the Pharisees in general ‘  were not baptized of him .’  ἐπί denotes the  moral direction of their purpose , not merely  motion towards: as in Μενέλαον στἐλλειν ἐπὶ τὰν Ἑλέναν , Eur. Iph. Aul. 178, and similar expressions; cf. Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 252 f., where many examples are given. Some interpret it in a hostile sense, ‘to  oppose his baptism,’ as in ἑπτὰ ἐπὶ Θήβας : but this is manifestly inconsistent with the context.
	 τῆς μελλούσης ὀργῆς ] The reference of John’s ministry to the prophecy concerning Elias, Malachi 3:1 ; Malachi 4:5 ( Mar 1:2 ), would naturally suggest to men’s minds ‘the wrath to come’ there also foretold. It was the general expectation of the Jews that troublous times would accompany the appearance of the Messiah. John is now speaking in the true character of a prophet, foretelling the wrath soon to be poured on the Jewish nation.