 4.   αὐτὸς δὲ ὁ Ἰω  . ]  αὐτὸς recalls the reader from the prophetic testimony, to the person of John:  now John himself.… As John was the Elias of prophecy, so we find in his outward attire a striking similarity to Elias, who was ἀνὴρ δασύς , καὶ ζωνὴν δερματίνην περιεζωσμένος τὴν ὀσφὺν αὐτοῦ . 4 Kings Matthew 1:8 . The garment of camel’s hair was not the camel’s skin with the hair on, which would be too heavy to wear, but raiment woven of camel’s hair, such as Josephus speaks of (B. J. i. 24. 3), ἐσθῆτες ἐκ τριχῶν πεποιημέναι , as a contrast to ἐσθ . βασιλικαί . From Zechariah 13:4 , it seems that such a dress was known as the prophetic garb: ‘neither shall they (the prophets) wear a rough garment ( δέῤῥιν τριχίνην , LXX, who, however, make it a garment of  penitence for having deceived ) to deceive.’
	 ἀκρίδες ] There is no difficulty here. The ἀκρίς , permitted to be eaten, ref. Levit., was used as food by the lower orders in Judæa, and mentioned by Strabo and Pliny as eaten by the Æthiopians, and by many other authors as articles of food. Jerome, adv. Jovinian. ii. 7, vol. ii. p. 334, says, “Apud Orientales et Libyæ populos quia per desertam et calidam eremi vastitatem locustarum nubes reperiuntur, locustis vesci moris est: hoc verum esse Joannes quoque Baptista probat.” Shaw found locusts eaten by the Moors in Barbary. (Travels, p. 164) Epiphanius, Hær. xxx. 13, vol. i. p. 138, quotes this from the Gospel according to the Ebionites as follows: καὶ τὸ βρῶμα αὐτοῦ μέλι ἄγριον , οὗ ἡ γεῦσις ἦν τοῦ μάννα , ὡς ἔγκρις ἐν ἐλαίῳ , and adds, ἵνα δῆθεν μεταστρέψωσι τὸν τῆς ἀληθείας λόγον εἰς ψεῦδος , καὶ ἀντὶ ἀκρίδων ποιήσωσιν ἐγκρίδας ἐν μέλιτι .
	 μέλι ἄγριον ] See 1 Samuel 14:25 . Here, again, there is no need to suppose any thing else meant but honey made by wild bees; τὸ ἐν ταῖς τῶν πετρῶν σχισμαῖς ὑπὸ τῶν μελισσῶν γεωργούμενον . Euthym [20] Schulz (cited by Winer, Realw., and De Wette) found such honey in this very wilderness in our own time. See Psalms 81:16 ; Judges 14:8 ; Deuteronomy 32:13 . The passage usually cited from Diodorus Siculus (xix. 94) to shew that μέλι ἄγριον exuded from trees, does not necessarily imply it; φύεται γὰρ παρ ʼ αὐτοῖς τὸ πέπερι ἀπὸ τῶν δένδρων , καὶ μέλι πολὺ τὸ καλούμενον ἄγριον , ᾧ χρῶνται ποτῷ μεθ ʼ ὕδατος . Suidas certainly makes it a gum: μ . ἄγ . ὅπερ ἀπὸ τῶν δένδρων ἐπισυναγόμενον , μάννα τοῖς πολλοῖς προσαγορεύεται . And Meyer prefers this view, on account of the predicate ἄγριον , which, he says, is a terminus technicus, pointing out this particular kind of honey. But he does not give any authority for this assertion: and it seems just as likely that ἄγριον might be applied to it as made by wild bees.
	 [20] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116