 11.   ἐν ὕδ  . ] ἐν is not redundant, but signifies the  vehicle of baptism, as in ἐν πν . ἁγ . κ . πυρί afterwards.
	 ἐρχόμενος ] The present participle is used of a certain and predetermined future event; “he that is to come.” See on ch. Matthew 2:4 .
	 τὰ ὑποδ  .   βαστάσαι ] Lightfoot (from Maimonides) shews that it was the token of a slave having become his master’s property, to  loose his shoe, to  tie the same, or to  carry the necessary articles for him to the bath. The expressions therefore in all the Gospels amount to the same.
	 ἐν πν  .   ἁγ  .   κ  .   πυρί ] This was literally fulfilled at the day of Pentecost: but Origen and others refer the words to the baptism of the  righteous by the Holy Spirit , and of  the wicked by fire . I have no doubt that this (which I am surprised to see upheld by Neander, De Wette, and Meyer) is a mistake in the present case, though apparently (to the superficial reader) borne out by Matthew 3:12 . The  double symbolic reference of fire, elsewhere found, e.g. Mark 9:50 , as purifying the good and consuming the evil, though  illustrated by these verses, is hardly to be pressed into the interpretation of πυρί in this verse, the prophecy  here being solely of that higher and more perfect baptism to which that of John was a mere introduction. To separate off πν . ἁγίῳ as belonging to one set of persons, and πυρί as belonging to another, when both are united in ὑμᾶς , is in the last degree harsh, besides introducing confusion into the whole. The members of comparison in this verse are  strictly parallel to one another: the  baptism by water , the end of which is μετάνοια , a mere transition state, a note of preparation, and the  baptism by the Holy Ghost and fire , the end of which is ( Mat 3:12 )  sanctification , the entire aim and purpose of man’s creation and renewal. So Chrys.: τῇ ἐπεξηγήσει τοῦ πυρὸς πάλιν τὸ σφοδρὸν καὶ ἀκάθεκτον τῆς χάριτος ἐνδεικνύμενος . Thus the  official superiority of the Redeemer (which is all that our Evangelist here deals with) is fully brought out. The superiority of  nature and  pre-existence is reserved for the fuller and more dogmatic account in John 1:1-51 .