Ephesians 2:2.  Wherein ye once walked.  In the sphere of these sins they habitually moved; ‘in this sleep of death there is a strange somnambulism’ (Eadie).
	 According to the course of this world.  The word ‘course’ is that usually rendered ‘age’ or ‘world,’ and in various forms employed to express the idea of ‘eternal.’ A notion of duration is always found in it, although it sometimes, as here, suggests also the idea of a movement, course, development. The ethical character of this ‘course’ is indicated, not by the word itself, but by the phrase ‘of this world’ which has its usual meaning here, namely, the world of humanity estranged from God. The two terms are not synonymous. The implied contrast is with a future new world.
	 According to the prince of the powers of the air.  This clause is parallel to the preceding one, and sets forth the personality and operations which stand behind the course of this world, working in it and through it. That Satan is referred to in the word ‘prince’ or ‘ruler,’ is clear from such expressions as 2 Corinthians 4:4: ‘the god of this world.’ ‘Of the powers,’ lit, ‘power,’ sums up ‘as a  collective  designation of their empire and sovereignty’ (Ellicott), all the powers of which Satan is the ruler and head. These ‘powers’ are then defined as ‘of the air.’ This difficult expression has a local reference, as is generally agreed; but whether it is to be taken literally or figuratively, or in both senses, has been much discussed. The leading explanations are: (1.) The physical atmosphere, as the abode of evil spirits. Some trace this notion to the Rabbins, others to Pythagorean philosophy. But this view is not supported by other passages; see chap. Ephesians 6:12. This difficulty is obviated by the explanation of Bishop Ellicott, who extends the term ‘to all that supra-terrestrial, but sub-celestial region, which seems to be, if not the abode, yet the haunt of evil spirits.’ (2.) Paul uses the common language of the time, without teaching anything in regard to demonology. This is too indefinite. (3.) The language is figurative; referring to an ideal atmosphere corresponding to the character of the world of sin and Satan. Others explain ‘air’ as meaning ‘darkness,’ and then take the latter in its usual figurative sense. (4.) Some combine the literal and figurative meanings; but this view is as difficult to state as it is to defend. The subject is one about which we know very little, but on the whole the extended local sense is to be preferred, both because there is no well established figurative sense of ‘air,’ and because the ethical characteristics of ‘the powers’ are indicated in the next clause.
	 Of the spirit,  etc. This is in apposition with ‘the powers of the air.’ ‘Of’ is inserted to show that it is not in apposition with ‘prince,’ the original not admitting of that explanation. Two views are allowable, though neither of them is free from objection: (1.) That it refers to the evil influence emanating from Satan as ‘prince,’ there being a tacit contrast to the Spirit of God, which works in the hearts of believers. This ‘spirit’ is distinct from the men whom it influences, and is analogous to the common expression, used in a bad sense, ‘the spirit of the age.’ The objection that this represents Satan as ruler of a principle, is not very serious. (2.) Some take ‘spirit’ collectively as=‘spirits,’ designating the ‘powers’ according to their aggregate character; but this view is more objectionable than the other, since ‘spirit’ is never used elsewhere in the collective sense, and the defining clause which follows points to one and the same agency.
	 Which is now working.  ‘Now,’ in contrast with ‘once.’ They were formerly under the same influence, which is still operating. A reference to a special activity of Satan since redemption has been accomplished, is not necessarily included.
	 In the sons of disobedience. The phrase is a Hebraism. ‘But it is strictly reproduced in fact: that of which they are sons, is the source and spring of their lives, not merely an accidental quality belonging to them’ (Alford). ‘In’ is not simply ‘among, but points to the internal operations of the spirit which proceeds from Satan, the prince of the powers of the air. To the Apostle, Satan, his kingdom, his emissaries and his operations in the souls of men, were fearful realities; comp. chap. Ephesians 6:11-12.
	