 14 16. ] COMPACT OF JUDAS WITH THE CHIEF PRIESTS TO BETRAY HIM. Mark 14:10-11 .Luke 22:3-6; Luke 22:3-6 . (See also ἤδη , John 13:2 .)  When this took place, does not appear. In all probability, immediately after the conclusion of our Lord’s discourses, and therefore coincidently with the meeting of the Sanhedrim in Matthew 26:3 . As these verses bring before us the first overt act of Judas’s treachery, I will give here what appears to me the true estimate of his character and motives. In the main, my view agrees with that given by Neander, in his Leben Jesu, p. 688. I believe that Judas at first became attached to our Lord with much the same view as the other Apostles. He appears to have been a man with a practical talent for this world’s business, which gave occasion to his being appointed the Treasurer, or Bursar, of the company (John 12:6 ; Joh 13:29 ). But the self-seeking, sensuous element, which his character had in common with that of the other Apostles, was deeper rooted in him; and the spirit and love of Christ gained no such influence over him as over the others, who were more disposed to the reception of divine things. In proportion as he found our Lord’s progress disappoint his greedy anticipations, did his attachment to Him give place to coldness and aversion. The exhibition of miracles alone could not keep him faithful, when once the deeper appreciation of the Lord’s Divine Person failed. We find by implication a remarkable example of this in John 6:60-66 ; John 6:70-71 , where the denunciation of the one unfaithful among the twelve seems to point to the (then) state of his mind, as already beginning to be scandalized at Christ. Add to this, that latterly the increasing clearness of the Lord’s announcements of his approaching passion and death, while they gradually opened the eyes of the other Apostles to some terrible event to come, without shaking their attachment to Him, was calculated to involve in more bitter disappointment and disgust one so disposed to Him as Judas was.
	The actually exciting causes of the deed of treachery at this particular time may have been many. The reproof administered at Bethany (on the Saturday evening probably), disappointment at seeing the triumphal entry followed, not by the adhesion, but by the more bitter enmity of the Jewish authorities, the denunciations of our Lord in ch. Matthew 22:23 . rendering the breach irreparable, and perhaps his last announcement in Matthew 26:2 , making it certain that his death would soon take place, and sharpening the eagerness of the traitor to profit by it: all these may have influenced him to apply to the chief priests as he did. With regard to  his motive in general, I cannot think that he had any design but that of  sordid gain, to be achieved by the darkest treachery . See further on this the note on ch. Matthew 27:3 .