 26 29. ] INSTITUTION OF THE LORD’S SUPPER. Mark 14:22-25 .Luke 22:19-20; Luke 22:19-20 . 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 . We may remark on this important part of our narrative, (1) That it was demonstrably our Lord’s intention to  found an ordinance for those who should believe on Him; (2) that this ordinance had some  analogy with that which He and the Apostles were then celebrating . The  first of these assertions depends on the express word of the Apostle Paul; who in giving directions for the due celebration of the rite of the Lord’s Supper, states in relation to it that he had  received from the Lord the account of its institution, which he then gives. He who can set this aside, must set aside with it all apostolic testimony whatever. The  second is shewn by the fact, that what now took place was  during the celebration of the Passover : that the same Paul states that  Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us ; thus identifying the body broken, and blood shed, of which the bread and wine here are symbolic, with the Paschal feast. (3) That the  key to the right understanding of what took place must be found in  our Lord’s discourse after the feeding of the five thousand in John 6:1-71 , since He  there , and  there only , besides this place,  speaks of His flesh and blood in the connexion found here . (4)  It is impossible to assign to this event its precise place in the meal . St. Luke inserts it  before the announcement of the treason of Judas: St. Matt. and St. Mark  after it. It is doubtful whether the accounts found in the Talmud and elsewhere of the ceremonies in the Paschal feast (see Lightfoot ad loc. De Wette) are to be depended on: they are exceedingly complicated. Thus much seems clear, that our Lord blessed and passed round  two cups , one before, the other after the supper, and that He distributed the unleavened cake during the meal. More than this is conjecture. The dipping of the hand in the dish, and dipping and giving the sop, may also possibly correspond to parts of the Jewish ceremonial.