 39. ]  προελθὼν μικρόν (Matt., Mark) ═ ἀπεσπάσθη ἀπ ʼ αὐτῶν ὡσεὶ λίθου βολήν Luke, who in this description is the more precise. ἀπεσπ ., I cannot help thinking, implies something more than  mere removal from them something of the  reluctance of parting.
	The distance would be very small, not above forty or fifty yards. Hence the disciples might well catch the leading words of our Lord’s prayers, before drowsiness overpowered them. Luke has however only θεὶς τὰ γόνατα , which is not so full as our account.
	 προσευχ  . ] Stier finely remarks: ‘This was in truth a different prayer from that which went before, which John has recorded.’ But still in the same spirit, uttered by the same Son of God and Redeemer of men. The  glorifying ( Joh 17:1 ) begins with suffering, as the previous words, ἐλήλυθεν ἡ ὥρα , might lead us to expect. The ‘power over all flesh’ shews itself first as power of the conflicting and victorious spirit over  his own flesh , by virtue of which He is ‘one of us.’
	Mark expresses the  substance of the prayer, and  interprets ποτήριον by ὥρα . Luke’s report differs only in verbal expression from Matthew’s. In the address, we have here and in Luke  Πάτερ in Mark ἀββᾶ ὁ πατήρ . In all, and in the prayer itself, there is the deepest feeling and apprehension in the Redeemer’s soul of  his Sonship and the unity of the Father the most entire and holy submission to His Will. We must not for a moment think of the Father’s  wrath abiding on Him as the cause of his suffering. Here is no fear of wrath, but, in the depth of his human anguish, the very tenderness of filial love.
	The variation in Mark and Luke in the substance of the prayer, though slight, is worthy of remark.
	 εἰ δυνατόν ἐστιν = πάντα δυνατά σοι , = εἰ βούλει . All these three find their union in one and the same inward feeling. That in the text expresses, ‘If, within the limits of Thy holy Will, this may be;’ that in Mark, ‘All things are (absolutely) possible to Thee Thou  canst therefore but not what I will, but what Thou  wilt :’ that in Luke, ‘If it be Thy  Will to remove, &c. (Thou canst): but not my will, but Thine be done.’ The  very words used by our Lord, the Holy Spirit has not seen fit to give us shewing us, even in this solemn instance, the comparative indifference of the  letter , when we have the inner  spirit . That our Lord should have uttered  all three forms of the prayer, is not for a moment to be thought of; and such a view could only spring out of the most petty and unworthy appreciation of the purpose of Scripture narrative.
	 παρελθάτω ] as we should say of a threatening cloud, ‘It has  gone over .’
	But what is the ποτήριον or ὥρα , of which our Lord here prays that it may  pass by? Certainly, not the mere present feebleness and prostration of the bodily frame: not any mere section of his sufferings but  the whole the betrayal, the trial, the mocking, the scourging, the cross, the grave, and all besides which our thoughts cannot reach. Of this all, his soul, in humble subjection to the higher Will, which was absolutely united and harmonious with the Will of the Father, prays that if possible it may pass over. And this prayer  was heard see Heb 5:7 ἀπὸ τῆς εὐλαβείας on account of His pious resignation to the Father’s will, or  on the ground of it, so that it prevailed He was strengthened from Heaven. He did indeed drink the cup to the dregs but He was  enabled to do it, and this ἐνίσχυσις was the answer to his prayer.
	 πλὴν οὐχ  … ] The Monothelite heresy, which held  but one will in the Lord Jesus, is here plainly convicted of error. The distinction is clear, and marked by our Lord Himself. In His  human soul , He willed to be freed from the dreadful things before Him but this human will was overruled by the  inner and divine purpose the Will at unity with the Father’s Will.