 28.  τοῦτο γάρ ἐστιν τὸ αἷμά μου τῆς [  καινῆς ]  διαθ  . ] So Mark also, omitting γάρ and καινῆς . In Luke and 1 Cor. there is an important verbal difference. τοῦτο τὸ ποτήριον ἡ καινὴ διαθ . [ ἐστὶν ] ἐν τῷ ἐμῷ αἵματι . But if we consider the matter closely, the  real difference is but trifling, if any. Let us recur to the Paschal rite. The lamb ( χριστὸς τὸ πάσχα ἡμῶν ) being killed, the blood ( τὸ αἷμα τῆς διαθήκης , Exo 24:8 ) is sprinkled on the doorposts, and is a sign to the destroying angel to spare the house. The  blood of the covenant is the blood of the lamb. So also in the new covenant. The blood of the Lamb of God, slain for us, being not only, as in the former case, sprinkled on, but actually  partaken spiritually and assimilated by , the faithful soul, is the  blood of the new covenant ; and the sacramental cup, is, signifies, sets forth ( καταγγέλλει , 1Co 11:26 ), this covenant  in His blood , i.e. consisting in a participation in His blood. With this explanation let us recur to the words in our text. First it will be observed that there is not here that absolute assertion which τοῦτό ἐστιν τὸ σῶμά μου conveyed. It is not τοῦτό ἐστιν τὸ αἷμά μου absolutely. Wine,  in general , does not represent by itself the effects (on the creation) of the blood of Christ; it, like every other nourishment of the body, is nourishment to us  by and in Him , forasmuch as in Him all things consist: but there is no peculiar propriety whereby it is to us his Blood alone. But it is  made so by a covenant office which it holds in his own declaration. Without shedding of blood was no remission of sins under the old covenant: and  blood was, throughout, the covenant sign of forgiveness and acceptance. (See ref. Heb., where the Author, substituting τοῦτο for ἰδού in the LXX of Exodus 24:8 , seems to be alluding to this very formula.) Now all this blood of sacrifice finds its true reality and fulfilment in the blood of Christ, shed for the remission of sins. This is the very promise of the new covenant, see Hebrews 8:8-13 , as distinguished from the old: the ἄφεσις ἁμαρτιῶν , once for all, whereas the old had  continual offerings, which could not do this, Hebrews 10:3-4 . And of this ἄφεσις , the result of the outpouring of the blood of Christ,  first and most generally in bringing all creation into reconciliation with the Father (see Col 1:20 ),  secondly and individually , in the application by faith of that blood to the believing soul, do the faithful in the Lord’s Supper partake.
	 τὸ περὶ πολλῶν (Luke, ὑμῶν )  ἐκχ  . ] On the present participle, see above. The situation of the words in Luke is remarkable; for τὸ ποτήριον is the subject of the sentence, and ἡ κ . διαθήκη the predicate. See note there.
	 πολλῶν ] see note, ch. Matthew 20:28 . Cf. also Hebrews 9:28 .
	 εἰς ἄφεσιν ἁμαρτιῶν ] Peculiar to Matthew: see above. The connexion is not πίετε .… εἰς ἄφεσιν ἁμ . In the Sacrament, not the forgiveness of sins itself, but the refreshing and confirming  assurance of that state of forgiveness is conveyed. The disciples (with one exception) were clean  before the institution : John 13:10-11 . St. Paul, in 1 Corinthians 11:25 , repeats the τοῦτο ποιεῖτε ὁσάκις ἂν πίνητε εἰς τὴν ἐμὴν ἀνάμνησιν . On the words ὁσάκις ἂν πίνητε , see note there.
	In concluding this note I will observe that it is not the office of a Commentator to enter the arena of controversy respecting  transubstantiation , further than by his exegesis his opinions are made apparent. It will be seen how entirely opposed to such a dogma is the view above given of the Sacrament. Once introduce it, and it  utterly destroys both the verity of Christ’s Body , and  the sacramental nature of the ordinance . That it has done so, is proved (if further need be) by the  mutilation of the Sacrament , and disobedience to the divine command, in the Church of Rome. See further notices of this in notes on 1 Corinthians 10:16 , and on John 6:1-71 .