 17 19. ] PREPARATION FOR CELEBRATING THE PASSOVER. Mark 14:12-16 . Luke 22:7-13 . The whole narrative which follows is extremely difficult to arrange and account for chronologically. Our Evangelist is the least circumstantial, and, as will I think appear, the least exact in detail of the three. St. Mark partially fills up the outline; but the account of St. Luke is the most detailed, and I believe the most exact. It is to be noticed that the narrative which St. Paul gives, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , of the institution of the Lord’s Supper, and which he states he ‘  received from the Lord ,’ coincides almost verbatim with that given by Luke. But while we say this, it must not be forgotten that over all three narratives extends the great difficulty of explaining  ἡ πρώτη τῶν ἀζ  . (Matt., Mark), or  ἡ ἡμ  .   τ  .   ἀζ  . (Luke), and of reconciling the impression undeniably conveyed by them, that the Lord and his disciples  ate the usual Passover , with the narrative of St. John, which not only does not sanction, but I believe absolutely excludes such a supposition. I shall give in as short a compass as I can, the various solutions which have been attempted, and the objections to them; fairly confessing that none of them satisfy me, and that at present I have none of my own. I will first state the  grounds of the difficulty itself . The day alluded to in all four histories as that of the supper, which is unquestionably one and identical, is Thursday, the 13th of Nisan. Now the day of the Passover being slain and eaten was the 14th of Nisan (Exodus 12:6 ; Exodus 12:18 ; Leviticus 23:5 ; Numbers 9:3 ; Numbers 28:16 ; Eze 45:21 ),  between the evenings ( בֵּין הָעַרְבַּיִם ), which was interpreted by the generality of the Jews to mean the interval between the first westering of the sun (3 p.m.) and his setting, but by the Karaites and Samaritans that between sunset and darkness: in either case, however,  the day was the same. The feast of unleavened bread began at  the very time of eating the Passover ( Exo 12:18 ), so that the  first day of the feast of unleavened bread was the 15  th ( Num 28:17 ). All this agrees with the narrative of John, where ( Joh 13:1 ) the last supper takes place  πρὸ τῆς ἑορ  .   τοῦ πάσχα where the disciples think (ib. Joh 13:29 ) that Judas had been directed to buy the things ὧν χρείαν εἶχον εἰς τὴν ἑορτήν where the Jews ( Joh 18:28 ) would not enter into the prætorium, lest they should be defiled, ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα φάγωσιν τὸ πάσχα (see note on Joh 18:28 ) where at the exhibition of our Lord by Pilate (on the Friday at noon) it was ( Joh 19:14 ) παρασκευὴ τοῦ πάσχα and where it could be said ( Joh 19:31 ) ἦν γὰρ μεγάλη ἡ ἡμέρα ἐκείνου τοῦ σαββάτου , being as it was a  double Sabbath , the coincidence of the first day of unleavened bread, which was sabbatically hallowed ( Exo 12:16 ), with an actual sabbath. But as plainly it  does not agree with the view of the three other Evangelists, who not only relate the meal on the evening of the 13th of Nisan to have been  a Passover, but manifestly regard it as the  ordinary legal time of eating it. τῇ πρ . ἡμ . τ . ἀζ ., ὅτε τὸ πάσχα  ἔθυον ( Mar 14:12 ), ᾗ  ἔδει θύεσθαι τὸ πάσχα ( Luk 22:7 ), and in our Gospel by implication, in the use of τὸ πάσχα , &c., without any qualifying remark. The solutions which have been proposed are the following: (1) that the Passover which our Lord and his disciples ate, was not the ordinary, but an  anticipatory one, seeing that He himself was about to be sacrificed as the true Passover at the legal time. To this it may be objected that such an anticipation would have been wholly unprecedented and irregular, in a matter most strictly laid down by the law: and that in the three Gospels there is no allusion to it, but rather every thing (see above) to render it improbable. (2) That our Lord and his disciples ate the Passover, but at the time observed by  a certain portion of the Jews , while He himself was sacrificed at the time  generally observed. This solution is objectionable, as wanting any historical testimony whereon to ground it, being in fact a pure assumption. Besides, it is clearly inconsistent with Mark 14:12 ; Luke 22:7 , cited above. A similar objection lies against (3) the notion that  our Lord ate the Passover at the strictly legal,  the Jews at an inaccurate and illegal time. (4) Our Lord ate only a πάσχα  μνημονευτικόν , such as the Jews now celebrate, and not a πάσχα  θύσιμον (Grotius). But this is refuted by the absence of any mention of a π . μνημ .  before the destruction of Jerusalem ; besides its inconsistency with the above-cited passages. (5) Our Lord  did not eat the Passover at all . But this is manifestly not a  solution of the difficulty, but a setting aside of one of the differing accounts: for the three Gospels manifestly give the impression that He  did eat it. (6) The solution offered by Chrys., on our Matthew 26:58 (Hom. lxxxiv. 2, p. 800), is at least ingenious. The Council, he says, did not eat their Passover at the proper time, but ἐν ἑτέρᾳ ἡμέρᾳ ἔφαγον , καὶ τὸν νόμον ἔλυσαν , διὰ τὴν ἐπιθυμίαν τὴν περὶ τὴν σφαγὴν ταύτην .… εἵλοντο καὶ τὸ πάσχα ἀφεῖναι , ὑπὲρ τοῦ τὴν φονικὴν αὐτῶν ἐμπλῆσαι ἐπιθυμίαν . This had been suggested before in a scholium of Eusebius: see Wordsw.’s note on John 18:28 , in which it is adopted. But St. John’s habit of noticing and explaining all such exceptional circumstances, makes it very improbable. (I may state, as some solutions have been sent me by correspondents, that I have seen nothing besides the above, which justifies any extended notice.)
	I will conclude this note by offering a few hints which, though not pointing to any particular solution, ought I think to enter into the consideration of the question. ( α ) That, on the evening of the 13th (i.e. the beginning of the 14th) of Nisan, the Lord  ate a meal with his disciples , at which the announcement that one of them should betray Him was made: after which He went into the Garden of Gethsemane, and was betrayed (Matt., Mark, Luke, John): ( β ) That,  in some sense or other , this meal  was regarded as the eating of the Passover (Matt., Mark, Luke). (The same may be inferred even from John; for some of the disciples must have gone into the prætorium, and have heard the conversation between our Lord and Pilate ( Joh 18:33-38 ): and as they were equally bound with the other Jews to eat the Passover, would equally with them have been incapacitated from so doing by having incurred defilement,  had they not eaten theirs previously . It would appear too, from Joseph of Arimathea  going to Pilate during the παρασκευή ( Mar 15:42-43 ), that  he also had eaten his passover .) ( γ ) That it was  not the ordinary passover of the Jews : for ( Exo 12:22 ) when that was eaten, none might go out of the house until morning; whereas not only did Judas go out during the meal ( Joh 13:29 ), but our Lord and the disciples went out when the meal was finished. Also when Judas went out, it was understood that he was gone to  buy , which could not have been the case, had it been the night of eating the passover, which in all years was sabbatically hallowed. ( δ ) John, who omits all mention of the Paschal nature of this meal, also omits all mention of the distribution of the symbolic bread and wine. The latter act was, strictly speaking, anticipatory: the Body was not yet broken, nor the Blood shed (but see note on Mat 26:26 ad fin.). Is it possible that the words in Luk 22:15-16 may have been meant by our Lord as an express declaration of the anticipatory nature of that passover meal likewise? May they mean, ‘I have been most anxious to eat this Paschal meal with you to-night (before I suffer), for I shall not eat it to-morrow, I shall not eat of it any more with you?’ May a hint to the same effect be intended in ὁ  καιρός μου ἐγγύς ἐστιν ( Mat 26:18 ), as accounting for the time of making ready may the present tense ποιῶ itself have the same reference? I may remark that the whole of the narrative of John, as compared with the others, satisfies me that  he can never have seen their accounts . It is inconceivable, that one writing for the purpose avowed in John 20:31 , could have found the three accounts as we have them, and have made no more allusion to the discrepancy than the faint (and to all appearance undesigned) ones in ib. ch. John 12:1 ; John 13:1 ; John 13:29 ; John 18:28 .