 69 75. ] OUR LORD IS THRICE DENIED BY PETER. Mark 14:66-72 .Luke 22:56-62; Luke 22:56-62 . Joh 18:17-18 ; John 18:25-27 . This narrative furnishes one of the clearest instances of the  entire independency of the four Gospels of one another . In it, they all differ, and, supposing the denial to have taken place  thrice , and  only thrice , cannot be literally harmonized. The following table may serve to shew what the agreements are, and what the differences:  MATTHEW.   MARK.   LUKE.  1st denial. Sitting in the hall without, is charged by a maid servant with having been with Jesus the Galilæan. ‘I know not what thou sayest.’ Warming himself in the hall below, &c. as Matt. goes out into the vestibule the cock crows. ‘I know not, neither understand what thou sayest.’ Sitting πρὸς τὸ φῶς is recognized by the maid and charged replies, ‘Woman, I know Him not.’ Is recognized by the porteress on being introduced by the other disciple. ‘Art not thou also one of this man’s disciples?’ He saith, ‘I am not.’ 2nd denial. He has gone out into the porch  another maid sees him. ‘This man also was with Jesus of Naz [178] ’ He denies with an oath, ‘I do not know the man.’ [178] Nazianzenus, Gregory, fl. 370 389 The same maid (possibly: but see note, p. 284, Colossians 1:1-29 , line 34) sees him again, and says, ‘This man is of them.’ He denies again. Another (but a  male servant) says: ‘Thou also art of them.’ Peter said, ‘Man, I am not.’ Is standing and warming himself. They said to him, ‘Art not thou also of His disciples?’ He denied, and said, ‘I am not.’ 3rd denial. After a little while, the standers-by say, ‘Surely thou art of them; for thy dialect be-trayeth thee.’ He began to curse and to swear: ‘I know not the man.’ As Matt. ‘Surely thou art of them: for thou art also a Galilæan.’ After about an hour, another persisted saying, ‘Truly this man was with Him, for he is a Galilæan.’ Peter said, ‘Man, I know not what thou sayest.’ One of the slaves of the High-priest, his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, says, ‘Did I not see thee in the garden with Him?’ Peter then denied again. Immediately the cock crew, and Peter remembered, &c. and going out he wept bitterly. A second time the cock crew, and Peter remembered, &c. and ἐπιβαλών he wept. Immediately while he was yet speaking the cock crew, and the Lord turned and looked on Peter, and Peter remembered, &c. and going out he wept bitterly. Immediately the cock crew. On this table I would make the following remarks: that  generally , (1) supposing the four accounts to be  entirely independent of one another , we are  not bound to require accordance , nor would there in all probability be any such accordance,  in the recognitions of Peter by different persons . These may have been  many on  each occasion of denial, and independent narrators may have fixed on different ones among them. (2)  No reader who is not slavishly bound to the inspiration of the  letter, will require that the actual words spoken by Peter should in each case be identically reported . See the admirable remarks of Aug [179] cited on ch. Matthew 8:25 : and remember, that the  substantive fact of a denial remains the same, whether οὐκ οἶδα τί λέγεις , οὐκ οἶδα αὐτόν , or οὐκ εἰμί are reported to have been Peter’s answer. (3) I do not see that we are obliged to limit the narrative to  three  sentences from Peter’s mouth, each expressing a denial,  and no more . On  three occasions during the night  he was recognized , on  three occasions he was a denier of his Lord: such a statement may well embrace  reiterated expressions of recognition , and  reiterated and  importunate denials , on  each occasion. And these remarks being taken into account, I premise that all difficulty is removed from the synopsis above given: the only resulting inferences being, (a)  that the narratives are genuine truthful accounts of facts underlying them all : and (b)  that they are, and must be, absolutely and entirely independent of one another . For (1) the four accounts of the FIRST denial are remarkably coincident. In  all four , Peter was in the outer hall, where the fire was made (see on Mat 26:69 ):  a maid servant (Matt., Mark, Luke),  the maid servant who kept the door (John) taxed him (in  differing words in each , the comparison of which is very instructive) with being a disciple of Jesus: in all four he denies, again in differing words. I should be disposed to think this first recognition to have been  but one , and the variations to be owing to the independence of the reports. (2) In the narratives of the SECOND denial, our first preliminary remark is well exemplified. The same maid (Mark possibly: but not necessarily perhaps, only the παιδίσκη in the προαύλιον ) another  maid (Matt.),  another (  male )  servant (Luke), the  standers-by generally (John), charged him: again, in differing words. It seems he had retreated from the fire as if going to depart altogether (see note, Mat 26:69 ), and so attracted the attention both of the group at the fire and of the porteress. It would appear to me that for some reason, John was not so precisely informed of the details of this as of the other denials. The “  going out ” (Matt., Mark) is a superadded detail, of which the “  standing and warming himself ” (John) does not seem to be possessed. (3) On the THIRD occasion,  the standers-by recognize him as a Galilæan (  simply , Mark (txt.), Luke:  by his dialect , Matt., an interesting additional particular), and  a kinsman of Malchus crowns the charge by  identifying him in a way which might have proved most perilous, had not Peter immediately withdrawn. This third time again, his denials are differently reported: but here, which is most interesting, we have in Matt. and Mark’s “  he began to curse and to swear ” a very plain intimation, that he spoke  not one sentence only , but  a succession of vehement denials . It will be seen, that the main fallacy which pervaded the note in my first edition, was that of requiring the  recognitions , and the  recognizers , in each case, to have been  identical in the four . Had they been thus identical, in a case of this kind, the four accounts  must have sprung from a common source , or have been  corrected to one another : whereas their present varieties and coincidences are most valuable as indications of  truthful independence . What I wish to impress on the minds of my readers is, that in narratives which have sprung from such truthful independent accounts, they must be prepared sometimes (as e.g. in the details of the day of the Resurrection) for discrepancies which,  at our distance, we cannot satisfactorily arrange : now and then we may, as in  this instance, be able to do so with something like verisimilitude: in some cases,  not at all . But whether we can thus arrange them or not, being thoroughly persuaded of the holy truthfulness of the Evangelists, and of the divine guidance under which they wrote, our faith is in no way shaken by such discrepancies. We value them rather, as testimonies to independence: and are sure, that if for one moment we could be put in  complete possession of all the details as they happened , each account would find its justification, and the reasons of all the variations would appear. And this I firmly believe will one day be the case. (See the narrative of Peter’s denials ably treated in an article on my former note, in the “Christian Observer” for Feb. 1853.)john.
	 [179]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430