 25. ] I cannot understand these words (which are peculiar to our Gospel) otherwise than as an imperfect report of what really happened, viz. that the Lord  dipped the sop, and gave it to Judas , thereby answering the general doubt, in which the traitor had impudently presumed to feign a share. If the question  μήτι ἐγώ εἰμι  ; before, represented  ἔβλεπον εἰς ἀλλήλους ἀπορούμενοι  , and was our author’s impression of what was in reality not a  spoken but a  signified question, why now also should not this question and answer represent that Judas took part in that ἀπορία , and was,  not by word of mouth, but by a decisive sign , of which our author was not aware, declared to be the traitor?  Both cannot have happened; for ( Joh 13:28 )  no one knew (not even John, see note there)  why Judas went out ; whereas if he had been openly (and it is out of the question to suppose a  private communication between our Lord and him) declared to be the traitor, reason enough would have been furnished for his immediately leaving the chamber. (Still, consult the note on Luke 22:24-30 , where I have left room for modifying this view.) I am aware that this explanation will give offence to those who believe that every part of each account may be tessellated into one consistent and complete whole. Stier (Reden Jesu, vi. 46) handles the above supposition very roughly, and speaks of its upholders in no measured terms. Valuable as are the researches of this Commentator into the inner sense of the Lord’s words, and ready as I am to acknowledge continual obligation to him, I cannot but think that in the whole interpretation of this part of the Gospel-history, he and his school have fallen into the error of a too minute and letter-serving exposition. In their anxiety to retain  every portion of  every account in its strict literal sense, they are obliged to commit many inconsistencies. A striking instance of this is also furnished in Mr. Birks’s Horæ Evangelicæ, p. 411: where in treating of this difficulty he says, “If we suppose St. Matthew to express the  substantial meaning of our Lord’s reply,  rather than its precise words , the two accounts are easily reconciled. The question of Judas might concur with St. John’s private enquiry, and  the same sign which revealed the traitor to the beloved disciple, would be an affirmative reply to himself, equivalent to the words in the Gospel ‘Thou hast said.’ ” Very true, and nearly what I have maintained above: but the literal harmonizers seem to be quite blind to the fact, that this principle of interpretation, which  they use when it suits them , is the very one against which they so vehemently protest when others use it, and for the use of which they call them such hard names. On  σὺ εἶπας  , see below, Matthew 26:64 , note.