 26. ]  While they were eating,  during the meal , as distinguished from the distribution of the cup, which was  after it.
	No especial stress must be laid on the article before ἄρτον , if read; it would be  the bread which lay before Him : see below. The bread would be  unleavened , as the day was ἡ πρώτη τῶν ἀζύμων (see Exo 12:8 ).
	 εὐλογήσας and  εὐχαριστήσας amount to the same in practice. The looking up to heaven and giving thanks was a virtual ‘blessing’ of the meal or the bread.
	 εὐλογ  . must be construed transitively ( 1Co 10:16 ).
	 ἄρτον is governed by all four verbs, λαβών , εὐλογήσας , ἔκλασεν , ἐδίδου (see also Luke 9:16 , and the reff. to the text here). It was customary in the Paschal meal for the Master, in breaking the bread, to  give thanks for the fruit of the earth. But our Lord did more than this: “Non pro veteri tantum creatione, sed et pro nova, cujus ergo in hunc orbem venerat, preces fudit, gratiasque Deo egit pro redemtione humani generis quasi jam peracta.” Grotius.
	From this  giving of thanks for and  blessing the offering, the Holy Communion has been from the earliest times also called εὐχαριστία , viz. by Justin Martyr, Cyril of Jerusalem, Origen, Clem. Alex [170] , Chrysostom, &c. The passages may be seen in Suicer’s Thesaurus, under the word.
	 [170] Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 ἔκλασεν ] It was a round cake of unleavened bread, which the Lord broke and divided: signifying thereby both the breaking of his body on the Cross, and the participation in the benefits of his death by all His. Hence the act of communion was known by the name ἡ κλάσις τοῦ ἄρτου , Acts 2:42 . See 1 Corinthians 10:16 , also Isaiah 58:7 ; Lamentations 4:4 .
	 ἐδίδου  , imperf. He gave to each, distributed.
	 λάβετε φάγετε ] Our Gospel alone has both words. φάγετε is spurious in Mark: both words, in 1 Corinthians 11:24 . Here, they are undoubted: and seem to shew us (see note on Luk 22:17 ) that the Lord  did not Himself partake of the bread or wine . It is thought by some however that He  did : e.g. Chrysostom, Hom. lxxxii. 1, p. 783, τὸ ἑαυτοῦ αἷμα αὐτὸς ἔπιεν . But the analogy of the whole, as well as these words. and πίετε ἐξ αὐτοῦ πάντες below, lead us to a different conclusion.  Our Lord’s non-participation is however  no rule for the administrator of the rite in after times. Although in one sense he  represents Christ , blessing, breaking, and distributing; in another, he is  one of the disciples , examining himself, confessing, partaking. Throughout all Church ministrations this double capacity must be borne in mind. Olshausen (ii. 449) maintains the opposite view, and holds that the ministrant cannot unite in himself the two characters. But setting the inner verity of the matter for a moment aside, how, if so, should an  unassisted minister  ever communicate?
	 τοῦτό ἐστιν τὸ σῶμά μου ] τοῦτο , this, which I now offer to you, this  bread . The form of expression is important, not being οὗτος ὁ ἄρτος , or οὗτος ὁ οἶνος , but τοῦτο , in both cases, or τοῦτο τὸ ποτήριον , not the bread or wine itself, but the  thing in each case;  precluding all idea of a substantial change .
	 ἐστιν ] On this much controverted word  itself no stress is to be laid. In the original tongue in which our Lord spoke,  it would not be expressed : and as it now stands, it is merely the  logical copula between the subject,  this , and the predicate,  my Body . The connexion of these two will require deeper consideration. First we may observe, as above of the subject, so here of the predicate, that it is not ἡ σάρξ μου (although that very expression is didactically used in its general sense in John 6:51 , as applying to the bread), but τὸ  σῶμά μου . The  body is made up of flesh and blood; and although analogically the bread may represent one and the wine the other, the assertion here is not to be analogically taken merely: τοῦτο ,  this which I give you, (is) τὸ σῶμά μου . Under  this is the mystery of my Body: the assertion has a  literal , and has also a  spiritual or  symbolic meaning. And it is the  literal meaning which gives to the spiritual and  symbolic meaning its fitness and fulness. In the  literal meaning then,  this (is)  my Body , we have BREAD, ‘the staff of life,’ identified with THE BODY OF THE LORD: not  that particular ἄρτος with  that particular σάρξ which at that moment constituted the Body before them, nor  any particular ἄρτος with the  present Body of the Lord in heaven : but  τοῦτο  ,  the food of man , with  τὸ σῶμά μου  . This is strikingly set forth in John 6:51 , καὶ  ὁ ἄρτος δὲ  ὃν ἐγὼ δώσω ἡ σάρξ μου ἐστὶν ὑπὲρ  τῆς τοῦ κόσμου ζωῆς . Now the mystery of the Lord’s Body is, that  in and by it is all created being upheld : τὰ πάντα ἐν αὐτῷ συνέστηκεν , Colossians 1:17 ; ἐν αὐτῷ ζωὴ ἦν , John 1:4 . And thus  generally , and  in the widest sense , is the Body of the Lord  the sustenance and upholding of all living . Our very bodies are  dependent upon his , and unless by his Body standing pure and accepted before the Father,  could not exist nor be nourished . So that to all living things, in this largest sense, τὸ ζῇν , χριστός . And all our nourishment and means of upholding are Christ. In this sense  his Body is the Life of the world . Thus the fitness of the symbol for the thing now to be signified is shewn, not merely by analogy, but by the deep verities of Redemption. And this general and lower sense, underlying, as it does, all the spiritual and higher senses in John 6:1-71 , brings us to the  symbolic meaning which the Lord now first and expressly attaches to this sacramental bread.
	Rising into the higher region of spiritual things,  in and by the same Body of the Lord , standing before the Father in accepted righteousness, is all  spiritual being upheld , but by the  inward and spiritual process of feeding upon Him by faith : of making that Body our own, causing it to pass into and nourish our souls, even as the substance of the bread passes into and nourishes our bodies. Of this  feeding upon Christ in the spirit by faith, is the sacramental bread the  symbol to us. When the faithful in the Lord’s Supper press with their teeth that sustenance, which is, even to the animal life of their bodies,  the Body of Christ , whereby alone all animated being is upheld,  they feed in their souls on that Body of righteousness and acceptance, by partaking of which alone the body and soul are nourished unto everlasting life . And as, in the more general and natural sense, all that nourishes the body is the Body of Christ given for  all , so to  them , in the  inner spiritual sense , is the sacramental bread symbolic of that Body given for  them , their standing in which, in the adoption of sons, is witnessed by the sending abroad of the Spirit in their hearts. This last leads us to the important addition in Luke and 1 Cor. (but omitted here and in Mark) τὸ ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν ( διδόμενον , Luke, omitted in 1 Cor.), τοῦτο ποιεῖτε εἰς τὴν ἐμὴν ἀνάμνησιν . On these words we may remark (1) that the participle is  present : and, rendered with reference to the time when it was spoken, would be  which is being given. The Passion had already begun; in fact the whole life on earth was this giving and breaking, consummated by His death: (2) that the  commemorative part of the rite here enjoined strictly depends upon the  symbolic meaning, and that, for its fitness, upon the  literal meaning. The commemoration is of Him, in so far as He has come down into Time, and enacted the great acts of Redemption on this our world, and shewn himself to us as living and speaking  Man , an object of our personal love and affectionate remembrance: but the other and higher parts of the Sacrament have regard to the  results of those same acts of Redemption, as they are  eternized in the counsels of the Father, as the Lamb is slain  from the foundation of the world ( Rev 13:8 ).