17. For therein is the righteousness
	of God revealed—that is (as the whole argument of the Epistle
	shows), GOD'S JUSTIFYING
	RIGHTEOUSNESS. 
	from faith to faith—a
	difficult clause. Most interpreters (judging from the sense of such
	phrases elsewhere) take it to mean, "from one degree of faith to
	another." But this agrees ill with the apostle's design, which
	has nothing to do with the progressive stages of faith, but solely
	with faith itself as the appointed way of receiving God's
	"righteousness." We prefer, therefore, to understand it
	thus: "The righteousness of God is in the gospel message,
	revealed (to be) from (or 'by') faith to (or 'for') faith," that
	is, "in order to be by faith received." (So substantially,
	MELVILLE, MEYER,
	STUART, BLOOMFIELD,
	c.). 
	as it is written— ( :-). 
	The just shall live by
	faith—This golden maxim of the Old Testament is thrice quoted
	in the New Testament—here Galatians 3:11;
	Hebrews 10:38 —showing that the
	gospel way of "LIFE BY
	FAITH," so far from disturbing, only continued and
	developed the ancient method. 
	On the foregoing verses, Note
	(1) What manner of persons ought the ministers of Christ to be,
	according to the pattern here set up: absolutely subject and
	officially dedicated to the Lord Jesus; separated unto the gospel of
	God, which contemplates the subjugation of all nations to the faith
	of Christ: debtors to all classes, the refined and the rude, to bring
	the gospel to them all alike, all shame in the presence of the one,
	as well as pride before the other, sinking before the glory which
	they feel to be in their message; yearning over all faithful
	churches, not lording it over them, but rejoicing in their
	prosperity, and finding refreshment and strength in their fellowship!
	(2) The peculiar features of the gospel here brought prominently
	forward should be the devout study of all who preach it, and guide
	the views and the taste of all who are privileged statedly to hear
	it: that it is "the gospel of God," as a message from
	heaven, yet not absolutely new, but on the contrary, only the
	fulfilment of Old Testament promise, that not only is Christ the
	great theme of it, but Christ in the very nature of God as His own
	Son, and in the nature of men as partaker of their flesh—the Son of
	God now in resurrection—power and invested with authority to
	dispense all grace to men, and all gifts for the establishment and
	edification of the Church, Christ the righteousness provided of God
	for the justification of all that believe in His name; and that in
	this glorious Gospel, when preached as such, there resides the very
	power of God to save Jew and Gentile alike who embrace it. (3) While
	Christ is to be regarded as the ordained Channel of all grace
	from God to men (Romans 1:8), let
	none imagine that His proper divinity is in any respect compromised
	by this arrangement, since He is here expressly associated with "God
	the Father," in prayer for "grace and peace"
	(including all spiritual blessings) to rest upon this Church (Romans 1:8- :). (4) While this Epistle teaches, in conformity with the
	teaching of our Lord Himself, that all salvation is suspended upon
	faith, this is but half a truth, and will certainly minister
	to self-righteousness, if dissociated from another feature of the
	same truth, here explicitly taught, that this faith in God's own
	gift—for which accordingly in the case of the Roman believers,
	he "thanks his God through Jesus Christ" (Romans 1:8- :). (5) Christian fellowship, as indeed all real fellowship, is
	a mutual benefit; and as it is not possible for the most eminent
	saints and servants of Christ to impart any refreshment and profit to
	the meanest of their brethren without experiencing a rich return into
	their bosoms, so just in proportion to their humility and love will
	they feel their need of it and rejoice in it. 
	Romans 1:8- :. WHY THIS
	DIVINELY PROVIDED
	RIGHTEOUSNESS IS
	NEEDED BY ALL
	MEN.