 13 17 .]  Explanation of the vision .  And one of the elders answered (on this use of ἀπεκρίθη , see reff.)  saying to me (the elders symbolizing the Church, one of them fitly stands out as the interpreter of this vision in which the glorified Church is represented),  These that are clothed in the white robes, who are they, and whence came they (‘ad hoc interrogat, ut doceat,’ Bede [100] The questions are those ordinarily put when we seek for information respecting strangers. Wetst. compares the τίς ; πόθεν εἶς ἀνδρῶν ; of Homer; and the “Qui genus? unde domo?” of Virgil. Both enquiries are answered in Rev 7:14 )?  And I said to him, My Lord (the address is one of deep reverence as to a heavenly being. See the limits of this reverence in ch. Revelation 19:10 , Rev 22:8-9 ),  thou knowest (see ref. Ezek., from which the form of expression comes. The σὺ οἶδας must not with Ebrard be forced to mean, “I know well, but thou knowest better:” but must be taken in its simple acceptation, “I know not, but thou dost.” And this again need not mean that the Apostle had no thought on the subject, but that he regarded himself as ignorant in comparison with his heavenly interlocutor).  And he said to me, These are they that come (not, as E. V., “that  came :” nor again must the  present be put prominently forward, that  are coming , as if the number in the vision were not yet complete: still less is it to be taken as a quasi-future, “that  shall come ,” cf. ἔπλυναν and ἐλεύκαναν below; but as in the expression ὁ ἐρχόμενος , the present is merely one of  designation . Their description, generically, is, that “they are they that  come ,” &c.)  out of the great tribulation (the definite art. ought not to be omitted as in E. V. It is most emphatic: “out of the tribulation, the great one.” And in consequence some, e. g. Düsterd., have explained the words of that last great time of trial which is to try the saints before the coming of the Lord. But to limit it to this only, is manifestly out of keeping with the spirit of the vision. I would rather understand it of the whole sum of the trials of the saints of God, viewed by the Elder as now complete, and designated by this emphatic and general name: q. d. “all that tribulation”),  and they washed their robes (the aor. is that so often used of the course of this life when looked back upon from its yonder side: they did this in that life on earth which is now (in the vision) past and gone by)  and made them white (the reff. are full of interest)  in the blood of the Lamb (i. e. by that faith in the atoning blood of Christ of which it is said, τῇ πίστει καθαρίσας τὰς καρδίας αὐτῶν , Acts 15:9 ; and 1 John 1:7 , τὸ αἷμα Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ .… καθαρίζει ἡμᾶς ἀπὸ πάσης ἁμαρτίας . See also Ephesians 5:25-27 . Several of the ancient Commentators have misunderstood this: e. g. Areth [101] , φαμὲν ὡς ἐκ τοῦ αἵματος αὐτῶν ἡ ὑπὲρ χριστοῦ ἔκχυσις πάσης ἀπήλλαξεν αὐτοὺς κηλῖδος . τῷ γὰρ οἰκείῳ αἵματι βαπτισθέντες λευκοὶ ἀπὸ τοῦ τοιούτου λουτροῦ ἀνέβησαν πρὸς τὸν ἑαυτῶν βασιλέα χριστόν : and, though differently, Joachim: “sed cum sancti martyres in sanguine suo baptizati sint, quomodo sanguini Christi ascribitur quod abluti sunt, et non potius proprio sanguini quem pro Christo fuderunt? sed sciendum est, quod postquam empti sumus sanguine Christi, et ejus sacratissimo cruori communicare concessi, etiam sanguis noster sanguis ejus effectus est.” Similarly Lyra: “merito dicitur sanguis Agni, quia est sanguis membrorum ejus, in quibus dicit se persecutionem pati.” Ansbert ambiguously, “eas in sanguine agni candificant, subaudis, in Christi passionibus habitum mentis exornant.” And Ewald has fallen into the same mistake: “sanguine Christi, i. e. cæde quam ob Christi doctrinam, Christi et in hac re exemplar secuti, passi sunt.” Observe, we must not separate the two acts, washing and making white, as Hengstb., interpreting the former of the forgiveness of sins, the latter of sanctification: the latter is only the result of the former: they washed them, and by so doing made them white. The act was a life-long one, the continued purification of the man, body, soul, and spirit, by the application of the blood of Christ in its cleansing power).  On this account (  because they washed their robes white in Christ’s atoning and purifying blood: for nothing that has spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, can stand where they are standing: cf. again Ephesians 5:27 ; none will be there who are not thus washed)  they are before the throne of God (in the presence of His throne: seeing Him (Matthew 5:8 ; 1Co 13:12 ) as He sees them),  and they serve Him by day (gen. sing.)  and by night (“more nostro loquens æternitatem significat,” Bed [102] )  in His temple (as His priests, conducting the sweet praises of that heavenly choir, Revelation 7:10 , and doing what other high and blessed service He may delight to employ them in):  and He that sitteth on the throne shall spread His habitation over them (it is exceedingly difficult to express the sense of these glorious words, in which the fulfilment of the O. T. promises, such as Leviticus 26:11 ; Isaiah 4:5-6 ; Ezekiel 37:27 , is announced. They give the fact of the dwelling of God  among them, united with the fact of His protection being over them, and assuring to them the exemptions next to be mentioned. In the word  σκηνώσει are contained a multitude of recollections: of the pillar in the wilderness, of the Shechinah in the holy place, of the tabernacle of witness with all its symbolism. These will all now be realized and superseded by the overshadowing presence of God Himself).  They shall not hunger any more, nor yet (the repeated  οὐδέ is exclusive, and carries a climax in each clause)  thirst any more, neither shall the sun ever light upon them, no, nor any (reff.)  heat (as, e. g., ὁ καύσων , the sirocco, which word is used in Isaiah 49:10 , from whence this whole sentence is taken):  because the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne (the  ἀνὰ μέσον is somewhat difficult to express in its strict meaning. In ref. Matt., it has the sense of  among : in ref. Mark, that of  through the midst of : in ref. Isa., of  between . It seems to imply at least two things, between or in the midst of which any thing passes, or is situate. And in order to apply this here, we must remember the text and note at ch. Revelation 5:6 , where we found reason to believe that ἐν μέσῳ τοῦ θρόνου , κ . τ . λ ., imported in the middle point in front of the throne. If so, the two points required for ἀνὰ μέσον would be the two extreme ends of the throne to the right and to the left. See, besides reff., Exodus 11:7 ; Leviticus 27:12 ; Leviticus 27:14 ; Judges 15:4 ; Judges 3:0 Kings Revelation 5:12 ; Eze 22:26 )  shall tend them (as a shepherd his flock),  and shall guide them to the fountains of the waters of life (cf. ch. Revelation 22:1 . ζωῆς is prefixed for emphasis, as σαρκός in 1 Peter 3:21 , οὐ σαρκὸς ἀπόθεσις ῥύπου . It is not found in the place of Isaiah, which runs thus: ὁ ἐλεῶν αὐτοὺς παρακαλέσει , καὶ διὰ πηγῶν ὑδάτων ἄξει αὐτούς . See Psa 23:2 ):  and God shall wipe away (see reff.)  every tear out of their eyes .
	 [100] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [101] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [102] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	All is now ready for the final disclosure by the Lamb of the book of God’s eternal purposes. The coming of the Lord has passed, and the elect are gathered in. Accordingly, THE LAST SEAL IS NOW OPENED, which lets loose the roll.