 1 8 .]  The sealing of the Elect . [  And ]  after this (these words,  μετὰ τοῦτο , shew that the opening of the sixth seal is complete, and that what is now to follow, viz. the two visions each introduced with similar words, μετὰ τοῦτο ( ταῦτα ) εἶδον , comes in by way of episode. They represent two great events, the sealing of the elect on earth, and the great final assemblage of the saints in heaven. The great day of the Lord’s judgment is not described; it is all but brought before us under the sixth seal, and is actually going on in the first of these episodes (see below): but only that part of it which regards the saints appears to us, and that only by its result their gathering in to heaven)  I saw four angels (not, as many interpreters,  bad angels; nor does it necessarily follow that we are to adopt the analogy of ch. Rev 16:5 and to regard them as “angels of the winds:” but simply angels, to whom this office is committed. This is all that is declared to us in the text, and it is idle to enquire beyond it. All allegorizing and all individualizing interpretations are out of the question)  standing upon the four corners (  ἐπί with accus. at the first appearance, as indicating the  coming into that position, “sensu prægnanti;” see on ch. Rev 4:2 )  of the earth (i. e. North, South, East, and West, the cardinal points from which the winds blow)  holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind may not blow on the earth nor on the sea, nor against any (or  a , i. e.  any )  tree (the three disjunctives, μήτε , merely couple, without any climax),  and I saw another angel (as before, simply an angel; not as has been fancied, our Lord, nor the Holy Spirit; cf. τοῦ θεοῦ ἡμῶν below)  coming up from the rising of the sun (  ἀναβαίνοντα , because the rising of the sun is low on the earth’s horizon, whereas the Apostle was in heaven, looking down on the earth: and  ἀπὸ ἀνατολῆς ἡλίου , as naturally agreeing with the glorious and salutary nature of his employment. Cf. Ezekiel 43:2 ; Malachi 4:2 . The allegorical interpretations which have been given are entirely uncountenanced in the text),  having the seal (  σφραγῖδα , though anarthrous, is defined by the possessive gen. following)  of the living God (  ζῶντος , as giving to the seal solemnity and vital import):  and he cried with a great voice to the four angels to whom it was gives (reff.)  to injure (viz. by letting loose the winds, which they as yet held in)  the earth and the sea, saying, Do not ye injure the earth nor the sea nor the trees, until we (not  I : see Matthew 24:31 , cited below)  shall have sealed the servants of our God (the God alike of the speaker and of those addressed)  upon their foreheads (the noblest, as well as the most conspicuous part of the human frame).
	This vision stands in the closest analogy with Matthew 24:31 , where immediately after the appearing of the sign of the Son of man and the mourning of the tribes of the earth, we read καὶ ἀποστελεῖ τοὺς ἀγγέλους αὐτοῦ μετὰ σάλπιγγος φωνῆς μεγάλης , καὶ ἐπισυνάξουσιν τοὺς ἐκλεκτοὺς αὐτοῦ ἐκ τῶν τεσσάρων ἀνέμων , ἀπ ʼ ἄκρων οὐρανῶν ἕως ἄκρων αὐτῶν . The judgment of the great day is in fact going on in the background; but in this first and general summary of the divine judgments and dealings, in which the sighs of Creation and of the Church for Christ’s coming are set before us, only that portion of its proceedings is described which has reference to these two. When the strain is again taken up, the case and reference are different.
	The questions now arise, 1) who are these that are sealed? and 2) what is the intent of their being sealed? 1) Those who have followed the preceding course of interpretation will have no difficulty in anticipating the reply. They are, primarily, those elect of God who shall be living upon earth at the time here indicated, viz. that of the coming of the Lord: those indicated in Matthew 24:31 , above cited. (On the import and reason of the use of  Israel and its tribes, I shall speak below.) As such, they are not  identical with , but are  included in , the great multitude which no man can number of Revelation 7:9 ff. But they are also symbolical of the first-fruits of the Church: see notes on ch. Revelation 14:1 ff.