<b> 4</b>.]<b> And I heard the number of the sealed, an hundred and forty-four thousand sealed</b> (the number is symbolical of fixedness and full completion, 12 x 12 taken a thousand fold. No one that I am aware of has taken it literally, and supposed that just this particular number and no more is imported. The import for us is, that the Lord knoweth and sealeth His own: that the fulness of their number shall be accomplished and not one shall fail: and, from what follows, that the least as well as the greatest of the portions of his Church shall furnish its quota to this blessed company: see more below)<b> from every tribe</b> (i. e. from the sum of the tribes; from every tribe, all being taken together. This is evident from what follows)<b> of the sons of Israel</b> (this has been variously understood. By many, and even by the most recent Commentator, Düsterdieck, these sealed ones are taken to represent Jewish believers: the chosen out of the actual children of Israel. I need hardly say that such an interpretation seems to me to be quite inconsistent with the usage of this book. Our rule in such cases must be, to interpret a term, where it. may possibly be ambiguous, by the use of the same term, if we can discover any, in a place or places where it is clear and unmistakable. Now in the description of the heavenly Jerusalem, ch. xxi. 9 ff., we have the names<i> of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel</i> inscribed on its twelve gates. Can there be any doubt as to the import of those names in that place? Is it not, that the city thus inscribed is the dwelling-place of the Israel of God? Or are the upholders of the literal sense here prepared to carry it out there, and to regard these inscribed names as importing that none but the literal descendants of Israel dwelt within? [For observe that such an inference could not be escaped by the fact of the names of the twelve Apostles being inscribed on its foundations: those being individual names, the others collective.] It seems certain, by this expression being again used there in the same words, that the Apostle must here, as there, have intended Israel to be taken not as the Jewish nation, but as the Israel of God. Again, we have a striking indication furnished in ch. iii. 12, who these children of Israel are:— “<i>He that overcometh</i>,....<b> I will write upon him</b><i> the name of my God, and</i> the name<b> of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem</b>,<i> which cometh down out of heaven from my God,—and my new name</i>.” These words serve to bind together the sealing here, and the vision of the new Jerusalem in ch. xxi. Nor is it any valid objection to this view that the persons calling themselves Jews in ch. ii. 9, iii. 9, have been taken to be actual Jews, There is a wide difference in the circumstances there, as there is also in the appellation itself):<b> out of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand sealed, &c. &c</b>.—The points to be noticed in this enumeration are, 1) That with the exception of Judah being placed first, the order of the tribes does not seem to follow any assignable principle. It may indeed be not without reason, that Reuben, the eldest, next follows Judah, and Benjamin the youngest is placed last, with Joseph his own brother: but beyond this, all is uncertainty: as any one will find, who attempts to apply to the order any imaginable rule of arrangement, So far has been generally confessed. “No order is kept, because all are equal in Christ,” says Grotius. 2) That the tribe of Dan is omitted. This is accounted for by the fathers and ancient interpreters, from thé idea [founded on Gen. xlix. 17] that antichrist was to arise from this tribe: by most Commentators, from the fact, that this tribe was the first to fall into idolatry, see Judg. xviii.: by others, from the fact that this tribe had been long ago as good as extinct. Grotius quotes for this a Jewish tradition. Accordingly we find in 1 Chron. iv. ff. where all Israel are reckoned by genealogies, that this tribe is omitted altogether. This latter seems the more probable account here, seeing that in order to the number 12 being kept, some one of the smaller tribes must be omitted. In Deut. xxxiii., Simeon is omitted. 38) That instead of Ephraim,<i> Joseph</i> is mentioned. We have a somewhat similar instance in Numb. xiii. 11, with this difference, that there it is “of the tribe of Joseph, namely of the tribe of Manasseh.” The substitution here has been accounted for by the “untheocratic” recollections connected with the name Ephraim. But this may well be questioned. In the prophecy of Hosea, where the name so frequently occurs, it designates Israel repentant, as well as Israel backsliding; compare especially ch. xiv. 4–8, the recollection of which would admirably fit the spirit of this present passage. I should rather pose that some practice had arisen which the Apostle adopts, of calling the tribe of Ephraim by this name. 4) That the tribe of Levi is included among the rest, hardly appears to depend on the reason assigned by Bengel and others, that the Levitical ceremonies being now at an end, all are alike priests and have access to God: for in some Old Test. catalogues, even where territorial division is in question, Levi is not omitted: the cities of the priests being mentioned under the head of this tribe. See 1 Chron. vi.<br><br> It yet remains to enquire, before passing on to the second vision in this episode, what is the import and intent of the sealing here mentioned. It has been the general view, that it was to exempt those sealed from the judgments which were to come on the unbelieving. And it can hardly be denied, that this view receives strong support from Scripture analogy; e.g. that of Exod. xii. and Ezek. ix., especially the latter, where the exempted ones are marked, as here, on their foreheads. It is borne out by our ch. ix. 4, where these sealed ones are by implication exempted from the plague of the locusts from the pit. It is again hardly possible to weigh fairly the language used in this place itself, without coming to the same conclusion. The four angels are commanded not to begin their work of destruction, until the sealing has taken place. For what imaginable reason could such a prohibition be uttered, unless those who were to be sealed were to he marked out for some purpose connected with that work? And for what purpose could they be thus marked out, if not. for exemption? The objection brought against this view by Düsterdieck, that so far from being exempt from trials, the saints in glory have come out of great tribulation, is grounded on the mistake of not distinguishing between the trials of the people of God and the judgments on the unbelieving world. In the latter, the saints have no part, as neither had the children of Israel in the plagues of Egypt. And indeed the very symbolism here used, in which the elect are pointed out under the names of the 12 tribes, serves to remind us of this ancient exemption. At the same time, exemption from the coming plagues is not the only object of the sealing. It serves a positive as well as a negative purpose, It appropriates to God those upon whom it has passed. For the seal contains His own Name, see ch. iii. 12, xiv. 1. And thus they are not only gathered out of the world, but declared to be ready to be gathered into the city of God. And thus the way is prepared for the next vision in the episode.