 9 17 .]  The great multitude of the redeemed in heaven . The opening of the sixth seal introduced the coming of the Lord. The first vision of the episode revealed the gathering together of the elect from the four winds. But before the seventh and  last seal can be opened, and the book of God’s purposes be unrolled, not only must all things on this earth be accomplished, but the whole multitude of the redeemed must be gathered in to the joy of their Lord. Then, and not till then, shall we know even as we are known, and read the mystery of God’s ways without hindrance. Accordingly, in this sublime vision we are admitted to a sight of the finished state of glory, in which the seventh seal shall be opened.  After these things (see above on Revelation 7:1 . The term indicates separation from that which went before, and introduces a second and distinct vision in the episode)  I saw, and behold a great multitude, which (construction, see reff.)  no one could (the past ἐδύνατο represents the classical ἂν δύναιτο : not that the attempt was actually made, but that if made it was sure to fail)  number, out of every nation (see ch. Rev 5:9 )  and (all)  tribes and peoples and tongues (observe, that this very specification, of a multitude without number, carries us on past the first or millennial resurrection, indicated in the two former parables of Matthew 25:0 (see notes there), and past the final judgment sublimely described at the end of that chapter: οἱ δὲ δίκαιοι εἰς ζωὴν αἰώνιον is the point at which our vision takes up that prophecy. We have οἱ δίκαιοι , in their robes of righteousness, made white in the blood of the Lamb, already, Revelation 7:15-17 , in the midst of those pleasures for evermore which always stand in Scripture for a description of the employments of the life everlasting)  standing before the throne and before the Lamb (by these words the vision is fixed as belonging to that heaven itself which has been previously described, ch. 4. The celestial scene becomes filled with this innumerable throng: its other inhabitants remaining as before)  clothed in white robes (see ch. Revelation 6:11 , note: and below, Rev 7:14 ),  and palm-branches in their hands (bearing the palm-branch was a mark of festal joy, cf. Joh 12:13 ; 1Ma 13:51 ; and this practice extended beyond the Jews, cf. Paus. Arcad. 48, οἱ δὲ ἀγῶνες φοίνικος ἔχουσιν οἱ πολλοὶ στέφανον · εἰς δὲ τὴν δεξιάν ἐστι καὶ πανταχοῦ τῷ νικῶντι ἐστιθέμενος φοῖνιξ . Remember also Virgil’s “palmæ, pretium victoribus,” Æn. v. 111. As regards the palm-  branch being also called φοῖνιξ , we have the authority of Pollux (Wetst.), τοῦ μέντοι φοίνικος καὶ ὁ κλάδος ὁμωνύμως φοῖνιξ καλεῖται ):  and they cry (the pres. expresses their unceasing occupation)  with a loud voice, saying, Salvation (  ἡ σωτηρία , the praise of our salvation: the ascription of the salvation which we have obtained) (  be )  to our God who sitteth on the throne and to the Lamb .