4. But the wise took oil in their
	vessels with their lamps—What are these "lamps" and
	this "oil"? Many answers have been given. But since the
	foolish as well as the wise took their lamps and went forth with them
	to meet the Bridegroom, these lighted lamps and this advance a
	certain way in company with the wise, must denote that Christian
	profession which is common to all who bear the Christian name; while
	the insufficiency of this without something else, of which they never
	possessed themselves, shows that "the foolish" mean those
	who, with all that is common to them with real Christians, lack
	the essential preparation for meeting Christ. Then, since the
	wisdom of "the wise" consisted in their taking with their
	lamps a supply of oil in their vessels, keeping their lamps burning
	till the Bridegroom came, and so fitting them to go in with Him to
	the marriage, this supply of oil must mean that inward reality of
	grace which alone will stand when He appears whose eyes are as a
	flame of fire. But this is too general; for it cannot be for nothing
	that this inward grace is here set forth by the familiar symbol of
	oil, by which the Spirit of all grace is so constantly
	represented in Scripture. Beyond all doubt, this was what was
	symbolized by that precious anointing oil with which Aaron and his
	sons were consecrated to the priestly office (Exodus 30:23-25;
	Exodus 30:30); by "the oil of
	gladness above His fellows" with which Messiah was to be
	anointed (Psalms 45:7; Hebrews 1:9),
	even as it is expressly said, that "God giveth not the Spirit by
	measure unto Him" (John 3:34);
	and by the bowl full of golden oil, in Zechariah's vision, which,
	receiving its supplies from the two olive trees on either side of it,
	poured it through seven golden pipes into the golden lamp-stand to
	keep it continually burning bright (John 3:34- :) —for the prophet is expressly told that it was to
	proclaim the great truth, "Not by might, nor by power, but by MY
	SPIRIT, saith the Lord of
	hosts [shall this temple be built]. Who art thou, O great mountain
	[of opposition to this issue]? Before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a
	plain [or, be swept out of the way], and he shall bring forth the
	head stone [of the temple], with shoutings [crying], GRACE,
	GRACE unto it." This
	supply of oil, then, representing that inward grace which
	distinguishes the wise, must denote, more particularly, that "supply
	of the Spirit of Jesus Christ," which, as it is the source of
	the new spiritual life at the first, is the secret of its enduring
	character. Everything short of this may be possessed by "the
	foolish"; while it is the possession of this that makes "the
	wise" to be "ready" when the Bridegroom appears, and
	fit to "go in with Him to the marriage." Just so in the
	parable of the Sower, the stony-ground hearers, "having no
	deepness of earth" and "no root in themselves" Matthew 13:5;
	Mark 4:17), though they spring up
	and get even into ear, never ripen, while they in the good ground
	bear the precious grain.