29. For the gifts and calling—"and
	the calling" 
	of God are without
	repentance—"not to be," or "cannot be repented
	of." By the "calling of God," in this case, is
	meant that sovereign act by which God, in the exercise of His free
	choice, "called" Abraham to be the father of a peculiar
	people; while "the gifts of God" here denote the
	articles of the covenant which God made with Abraham, and which
	constituted the real distinction between his and all other families
	of the earth. Both these, says the apostle, are irrevocable; and as
	the point for which he refers to this at all is the final destiny
	of the Israelitish nation, it is clear that the perpetuity through
	all time of the Abrahamic covenant is the thing here affirmed.
	And lest any should say that though Israel, as a nation, has
	no destiny at all under the Gospel, but as a people disappeared from
	the stage when the middle wall of partition was broken down, yet the
	Abrahamic covenant still endures in the spiritual seed of
	Abraham, made up of Jews and Gentiles in one undistinguished mass of
	redeemed men under the Gospel—the apostle, as if to preclude that
	supposition, expressly states that the very Israel who, as concerning
	the Gospel, are regarded as "enemies for the Gentiles' sakes,"
	are "beloved for the fathers' sakes"; and it is in
	proof of this that he adds, "For the gifts and the calling of
	God are without repentance." But in what sense are the now
	unbelieving and excluded children of Israel "beloved for the
	fathers' sakes?" Not merely from ancestral recollections,
	as one looks with fond interest on the child of a dear friend for
	that friend's sake [DR.
	ARNOLD]—a beautiful
	thought, and not foreign to Scripture, in this very matter (see
	2 Chronicles 20:7; Isaiah 41:8)
	—but it is from ancestral connections and obligations,
	or their lineal descent from and oneness in covenant with the fathers
	with whom God originally established it. In other words, the natural
	Israel—not "the remnant of them according to the
	election of grace," but THE
	NATION, sprung from Abraham according to the flesh—are still
	an elect people, and as such, "beloved." The very same love
	which chose the fathers, and rested on the fathers as a parent stem
	of the nation, still rests on their descendants at large, and will
	yet recover them from unbelief, and reinstate them in the family of
	God.