36. For of him, and through him, and
	to him, are all things: to whom—"to Him" 
	be glory for ever. Amen—Thus
	worthily—with a brevity only equalled by its sublimity—does the
	apostle here sum up this whole matter. "OF
	Him are all things," as their eternal Source: "THROUGH
	HIM are all things,"
	inasmuch as He brings all to pass which in His eternal counsels He
	purposed: "To Him are all things," as being His own last
	End; the manifestation of the glory of His own perfections being the
	ultimate, because the highest possible, design of all His procedure
	from first to last. 
	On this rich chapter, Note,
	(1) It is an unspeakable consolation to know that in times of deepest
	religious declension and most extensive defection from the truth, the
	lamp of God has never been permitted to go out, and that a faithful
	remnant has ever existed—a remnant larger than their own drooping
	spirits could easily believe ( :-). (2) The preservation of this remnant, even as their
	separation at the first, is all of mere grace (Romans 11:5;
	Romans 11:6). (3) When individuals
	and communities, after many fruitless warnings, are abandoned of God,
	they go from bad to worse (Romans 11:6- :). (4) God has so ordered His dealings with the great
	divisions of mankind, "that no flesh should glory in His
	presence." Gentile and Jew have each in turn been "shut up
	to unbelief," that each in turn may experience the "mercy"
	which saves the chief of sinners (Romans 11:6- :). (5) As we are "justified by faith," so are
	we "kept by the power of God through faith"—faith
	alone—unto salvation (Romans 11:6- :). (6) God's covenant with Abraham and his natural seed
	is a perpetual covenant, in equal force under the Gospel as before
	it. Therefore it is, that the Jews as a nation still survive, in
	spite of all the laws which, in similar circumstances, have either
	extinguished or destroyed the identity of other nations. And
	therefore it is that the Jews as a nation will yet be restored to the
	family of God, through the subjection of their proud hearts to Him
	whom they have pierced. And as believing Gentiles will be honored to
	be the instruments of this stupendous change, so shall the vast
	Gentile world reap such benefit from it, that it shall be like the
	communication of life to them from the dead. (7) Thus has the
	Christian Church the highest motive to the establishment and vigorous
	prosecution of missions to the Jews; God having not only
	promised that there shall be a remnant of them gathered in every age,
	but pledged Himself to the final ingathering of the whole nation
	assigned the honor of that ingathering to the Gentile Church, and
	assured them that the event, when it does arrive, shall have a
	life-giving effect upon the whole world (Romans 11:12-16;
	Romans 11:26-31). (8) Those
	who think that in all the evangelical prophecies of the Old Testament
	the terms "Jacob," "Israel," c., are to be
	understood solely of the Christian Church, would appear to
	read the Old Testament differently from the apostle, who, from the
	use of those very terms in Old Testament prophecy, draws arguments to
	prove that God has mercy in store for the natural Israel
	(Romans 11:26 Romans 11:27).
	(9) Mere intellectual investigations into divine truth in general,
	and the sense of the living oracles in particular, as they have a
	hardening effect, so they are a great contrast to the spirit of our
	apostle, whose lengthened sketch of God's majestic procedure towards
	men in Christ Jesus ends here in a burst of admiration, which
	loses itself in the still loftier frame of adoration (Romans 11:27- :).