 If I come  (εαν ελθω). Condition of third class with εαν and second aorist active subjunctive of ερχομα. He hopes to come (verse 3 John 1:14), as he had said in 2 John 1:12 (one argument for identifying II John with the letter in 3 John 1:9).I will bring to remembrance  (υπομνησω). Future active indicative of υπομιμνησκω, old compound (John 14:26; 2 Peter 1:12). The aged apostle is not afraid of Diotrephes and here defies him.Which he doeth  (α ποιε). Present active indicative, "which he keeps on doing."Prating against us  (φλυαρων ημας). Present active participle of old verb (from φλυαρος, babbling 1 Timothy 5:13), to accuse idly and so falsely, here only in N.T. with accusative ημας (us).With wicked words  (λογοις πονηροις). Instrumental case. Not simply foolish chatter, but malevolent words.Not content  (μη αρκουμενος). Present passive participle of αρκεω with usual negative μη. For this verb in this sense see 1 Timothy 6:8; Hebrews 13:5, only there επ is absent. John knows that the conduct of Diotrephes will not stand the light. See Paul's threats of exposure (1 Corinthians 4:21; 2 Corinthians 10:11; 2 Corinthians 13:1-3). And John is the apostle of love all the same.He himself  (αυτος). That was bad enough.Them that would  (τους βουλομενους). "Those willing or wishing or receive the brethren" from John.He forbiddeth  (κωλυε). "He hinders." Present active indicative of κωλυω and means either actual success in one case (punctiliar use of the present indicative) or repetition in several instances (linear action) or conative action attempted, but not successful as in Matthew 3:14 (this same verb) and John 10:32.Casteth them out of the church  (εκ της εκκλησιας εκβαλλε). Here again εκβαλλε can be understood in various ways, like κωλυε. This verb occurs in John 2:15 for casting out of the temple the profaners of it and for casting the blind man out of the synagogue (John 9:34). If this ancient "church-boss" did not succeed in expelling John's adherents from the church, he certainly tried to do it. 