24. Let us not rend it, but cast
	lots . . . whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled
	which saith, They parted my raiment among them; and for my vesture
	they did cast lots— ( :-). That a prediction so exceedingly specific—distinguishing
	one piece of dress from others, and announcing that while those
	should be parted amongst several, that should be given by lot
	to one person—that such a prediction should not only be fulfilled
	to the letter, but by a party of heathen military, without
	interference from either the friends of the enemies of the Crucified
	One, is surely worthy to be ranked among the wonders of this
	all-wonderful scene. Now come the mockeries, and from four
	different quarters:—(1) "And they that passed by
	reviled Him, wagging their heads" in ridicule (Psalms 22:7;
	Psalms 109:25; compare Jeremiah 18:16;
	Lamentations 2:15). "Ah!"—"Ha,"
	an exclamation here of derision. "Thou that destroyest the
	temple, and buildest it in three days, save Thyself and come down
	from the cross" (Matthew 27:39;
	Matthew 27:40; Mark 15:29;
	Mark 15:30). "It is evident
	that our Lord's saying, or rather this perversion of it (for
	He claimed not to destroy, but to rebuild the temple
	destroyed by them) had greatly exasperated the feeling which the
	priests and Pharisees had contrived to excite against Him. It is
	referred to as the principal fact brought out in evidence against Him
	on the trial (compare Acts 6:13;
	Acts 6:14), as an offense for
	which He deserved to suffer. And it is very remarkable that now while
	it was receiving its real fulfilment, it should be made more
	public and more impressive by the insulting proclamation of His
	enemies. Hence the importance attached to it after the resurrection,
	John 2:22" [WEBSTER
	and WILKINSON]. (2)
	"Likewise also the chief priests, mocking Him, with
	the scribes and elders, said, He saved others, Himself He cannot
	save" (Matthew 27:41; Matthew 27:42).
	There was a deep truth in this, as in other taunts; for both
	He could not do, having "come to give His life a ransom
	for many" (Matthew 20:28;
	Mark 10:45). No doubt this added
	an unknown sting to the reproach. "If He be the king of Israel,
	let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe Him"
	(Matthew 27:42). No, they would
	not; for those who resisted the evidence from the resurrection of
	Lazarus, and from His own resurrection, were beyond the reach of any
	amount of merely external evidence. "He trusted in God
	that He would deliver him; let Him deliver Him now if He will have
	Him [or 'delight in Him,' compare Psalms 18:19;
	Deuteronomy 21:14]; for He said, I am the
	Son of God" (Deuteronomy 21:14- :). We thank you, O ye chief priests, scribes, and elders,
	for this triple testimony, unconsciously borne by you, to our Christ:
	first to His habitual trust in God, as a feature in His
	character so marked and palpable that even ye found upon it your
	impotent taunt; next, to His identity with the Sufferer of the
	twenty-second Psalm, whose very words (Deuteronomy 21:14- :) ye unwittingly appropriate, thus serving yourselves
	heirs to the dark office and impotent malignity of Messiah's
	enemies; and again, to the true sense of that august title which He
	took to Himself, "THE
	SON OF GOD,"
	which He rightly interpreted at the very first (see Deuteronomy 21:14- :) as a claim to that oneness of nature with Him, and
	dearness to Him, which a son has to his father. (3) "And
	the soldiers also mocked Him, coming to Him and offering Him
	vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save Thyself"
	(Luke 23:36; Luke 23:37).
	They insultingly offer to share with Him their own vinegar, or sour
	wine, the usual drink of Roman soldiers, it being about the time of
	their midday meal. In the taunt of the soldiers we have one of those
	undesigned coincidences which so strikingly verify these
	historical records. While the ecclesiastics deride Him for calling
	Himself, "the Christ, the King of Israel, the
	Chosen, the Son of God," the soldiers, to whom all
	such phraseology was mere Jewish jargon, make sport of Him as a
	pretender to royalty ("KING
	of the Jews"), an office and dignity which it belonged to them
	to comprehend. "The thieves also, which were crucified
	with Him, cast the same in His teeth" (Matthew 27:44;
	Mark 15:32). Not both of
	them, however, as some commentators unnaturally think we must
	understand these words; as if some sudden change came over the
	penitent one, which turned him from an unfeeling railer into a
	trembling petitioner. The plural "thieves" need not denote
	more than the quarter or class whence came this last
	and cruelest taunt—that is, "Not only did scoffs proceed from
	the passers-by, the ecclesiastics, the soldiery,
	but even from His fellow-sufferers," a mode of speaking
	which no one would think necessarily meant both of them. Compare Mark 15:32- :, "They are dead which sought the child's life,"
	meaning Herod; and Mark 9:1,
	"There be some standing here," where it is next to
	certain that only John, the youngest and last survivor of the
	apostles, is meant. And is it conceivable that this penitent thief
	should have first himself reviled the Saviour, and then, on his views
	of Christ suddenly changing, he should have turned upon his fellow
	sufferer and fellow reviler, and rebuked him not only with dignified
	sharpness, but in the language of astonishment that he should
	be capable of such conduct? Besides, there is a deep calmness in all
	that he utters, extremely unlike what we should expect from one who
	was the subject of a mental revolution so sudden and total. On the
	scene itself, see on Mark 9:1- :.