 1 .]  After these things (  μετὰ ταῦτα (or τοῦτο ) is a formula frequently occurring in this book, and no where indicating a break in the ecstatic state of the Seer, but only the succession of separate visions. Those are mistaken, e. g. Bengel, Hengstb., who imagine an interval, here and in the other places, during which the Seer wrote down that which had been previously revealed to him. The whole is conceived as imparted in one continuous revelation consisting of many parts. See below on Rev 4:2 )  I saw (not with the bodily eye, but with the eye of ecstatic vision, as throughout the book. He is throughout ἐν πνεύματι . It is not  I looked , as in E. V.: not the directing of the Seer’s attention which discovers the door to him, but the simple reception of the vision which is recorded),  and behold, a door set open (not,  was opened ( ἠνοίχθη ) as E. V., which gives the idea that the Seer witnessed the act of opening. For the same reason the word “  opened ” is objectionable, as it may be mistaken for the aor. neuter)  in heaven (notice the difference between this vision and that in Ezekiel 1:1 ; Matthew 3:16 ; Acts 7:56 ; Acts 10:11 . In those, the heaven itself parts asunder, and discloses the vision to those below on earth: here the heaven, the house or palace of God (Psalms 11:4 ; Psalms 18:6 ; Psa 29:9 ), remains firmly shut to those on earth, but a door is opened, and the Seer is rapt in the Spirit through it. Henceforth usually he looks from the heaven down on the earth, seeing however both alike, and being present in either, as the localities of his various visions require),  and the former voice (much confusion has been introduced here by rendering, as E. V., “  the first voice which ,” &c., giving the idea that ἡ πρώτη means,  first after the door was seen set open; whereas ἡ φωνὴ ἡ πρώτη is the voice which I heard at first, viz. in ch. Rev 1:10 )  which I heard (aor. at the beginning)  as of a trumpet speaking with me (viz. ch. Revelation 1:10 . ὡς σάλπ . κ . τ . λ ., is not predicative, “  was as …” as E. V. and Treg. The construction simply is “behold, a door … and the voice …,” both θύρα and φωνή dependent on ἰδού .
	The voice is not that of Christ (as Stier, Reden Jesu viii. 93, 207 ff.: Reden der Engel, p. 242, and al.), but of some undefined heavenly being or angel. As Düsterd. observes, all we can say of it is that it is the  same voice as that in ch. Revelation 1:10 , which there, Revelation 1:17 , is followed by that of our Lord, not ὡς σάλπιγγος , but ὡς ὑδάτων πολλῶν , as stated by anticipation in Rev 1:15 ),  saying (Heb. לֵאמֹר . The gender is placed, regardless of the ordinary concord, with reference to the thing signified: so in reff., and even sometimes in the classics; cf. Xen. Cyr. i. 2. 12, αἱ πόλεις … ὡς παύσοντες . See more examples in Winer),  Come up hither (viz. through the opened door),  and I will shew thee (it is surprising how Stier can allege the δείξω as a proof that the Lord Himself only can be speaking: cf. ch. Revelation 21:9-10 , Revelation 22:8-9 , which latter place is decisive against him)  the things which must (of prophetic necessity: see reff.)  take place after these things ( ταῦτα , the things now present: as in ch. Revelation 1:19 , but the ταῦτα not being the same in the two cases. So that μετὰ ταῦτα has very much the general meaning given by the “  hereafter ” of the E. V.).