 4 .]  The assessors of the enthroned One . The construction with ἰδού , partly in the nom., partly in the accus., still continues.  And round the throne twenty-four thrones (i. e. evidently smaller thrones, and probably lower than ὁ θρόνος ),  and upon the twenty-four thrones elders sitting (the accus., either after εἶδον understood, or more likely loosely placed with the nominatives after ἰδού ),  clothed in white garments, and on their heads golden crowns (these 24 elders are not  angels , as maintained by Rinck and Hofmann (Weiss. u. Erfüll. p. 325 f.), as is shewn (not by ch. Revelation 5:9 , as generally argued, even by Elliott, vol. i. p. 81 f.: see text there: but) by their white robes and crowns, the rewards of  endurance , ch. Revelation 3:5 , Revelation 2:10 , but  representatives of the Church , as generally understood. But if so, what sort of representatives, and why 24 in number? This has been variously answered. The usual understanding has been that of our earliest Commentator, Victorinus; who says, “Sunt autem viginti quatuor, patres: duodecim Apostoli, totidem Patriarchæ.” And this is in all probability right in the main: the key to the interpretation being the  analogy with the sayings of our Lord to the Apostles, Matthew 19:28 ; Luke 22:30 . That those sayings do not regard the  same session as this, is no argument against the inference from analogy. Joachim brings against this view that the twelve patriarchs were not personally holy men, and never are held up as distinguished in the Old Testament. But this obviously is no valid objection. It is not the personal characters, but the symbolical, that are here in question. It might be said with equal justice that the number of the actual Apostles is not definitely twelve. It is no small confirmation of the view, that in ch. Revelation 15:3 , we find the double idea of the church, as made up of Old Testament and New Testament saints, plainly revealed to St. John; for he heard the victorious saints sing  the song of Moses , and  the song of the Lamb . See also ch. Revelation 21:12 ; Revelation 21:14 , where the twelve  gates of the New Jerusalem are inscribed with the names of the twelve tribes, and its twelve  foundations with those of the twelve Apostles. Various other interpretations have been: that of Lyra, “designantur universæ cathedrales ecclesiæ: quæ licet sint multæ, tamen sub tali numero designantur propter concordantiam novi Testamenti ad vetus, in quo legitur, 1 Paralip. xxv., quod sanctus David volens augmentare cultum divinum, statuit viginti quatuor sacerdotes templo per hebdomadas successive ministrantes, in sacra enim scriptura frequenter ponitur determinatus numerus pro indeterminato:” that of Alcas., Calov., Vitringa, Zeger, Ewald, al., who explain the number similarly by the 24 courses of priests and their heads, the objection to which is, that these elders are not priests, their occupation in ch. Rev 5:8 being simply connected with their representative character: that of Grot., that the number is that of the presiding elders of the Jerusalem church (a pure assumption): that of Joachim, Heinrichs, Bleek, De Wette, that the number 12, that of the tribes of Israel, is doubled, to signify the accession of the Gentiles to the church: that of Primasius and Ansbert, that the doubling is “propter geminum Testamentum, quin et in veteri et in novo eadem formatur Ecclesia.” Besides these, there have been many fanciful reasons, deduced from numerical considerations: as e. g. that of Arethas in Catena, that 21 Isaiah 3:0 × 7, the combination of the number of perfection with that of the Holy Trinity, and then 3 is added; &c. &c.).