 5 .]  And out of the throne go forth (the tense is changed, and the narrative assumes the direct form, which, however, is immediately dropped again, and the accumulation of details resumed)  lightnings and voices and thunders (the imagery seems to be in analogy with that in the Old Testament, where God’s presence to give His law was thus accompanied: cf. Exodus 19:16 ; where ἀστραπαί and φωναί occur in juxtaposition as here. If this idea be correct, then we have here represented the sovereignty and almightiness of God. And nearly so Vitr., Hengstb., Düsterd., al. De Wette and Ebrard understand God’s power over  nature , De W. uniting it with what follows: see below. Grot. says, “Fulgura et tonitrua significant minas Dei contra impios: voces sunt in ipsis tonitrubus, infra x. 3, i. e. non generaliter tantum minatur, sed et speciales pœnas prædicit.” But there seems no ground for this):  and seven lamps (the former construction is resumed)  of fire burning before the throne [  itself ] (or,  before his throne , viz. the throne of the καθήμενος ),  which are the seven spirits of God (see notes on ch. Revelation 1:4 , Revelation 5:6 . These seem to represent the Holy Spirit in his sevenfold working: in his enlightening and cheering as well as his purifying and consuming agency. So most Commentators. De W. and Ebrard regard the representation as that of the Holy Spirit, the principle of physical and spiritual life, which appears only wrong by being too limited. Hengstenb. is quite beside the mark in confidently (as usual)  confining the interpretation of the lamps of fire to the consuming power of the Spirit in judgment. The fact of the parallel ch. Rev 5:6 speaking of ἑπτὰ ὀφθαλμοί , and such texts as ch. Revelation 21:23 ; Psalms 119:105 , should have kept him from this mistake. The whole of this glorious vision is of a composite and twofold nature: comfort is mingled with terror, the fire of love with the fire of judgment):  and before the throne as it were a sea (the  ὡς belongs to θάλ . ὑαλ ., not to ὑαλ . alone as Bengel: so also in the parallel place, ch. Rev 15:2 )  of glass (not, “  glassy ,” as rendered by Elliott: ὑαλίνη describes not the appearance, but the material, of the sea: it appeared like a sea of glass so clear, and so calm)  like to crystal (and that not common glass, which among the ancients was as we see from its remains, cloudy and semi-opaque, but like rock crystal for transparency and beauty, as Victorinus, “aquam mundam, stabilem, non vento agitatam.” Compare by way of contrast, ἡ καθημένη ἐπὶ [ τῶν ]  ὑδάτων [ τῶν ]  πολλῶν , the multitudinous and turbulent waters, ch. Revelation 17:1 .
	In seeking the explanation of this, we must first track the image from its O. T. earlier usage. There, in Exodus 24:10 , we have καὶ εἶδον τὸν τόπον οὗ εἱστήκει ὁ θεὸς τοῦ Ἰσραήλ · καὶ τὰ ὑπὸ τοὺς πόδας αὐτοῦ ὡσεὶ ἔργον πλίνθου σαπφείρου , καὶ ὥσπερ εἶδος στερεώματος τοῦ οὐρανοῦ τῇ καθαριότητι . Compare with this Ezekiel 1:22 , καὶ ὁμοίωμα ὑπὲρ κεφαλῆς αὐτῶν [ αὐτοῖς Α ] τῶν ζώων ὡσεὶ στερέωμα , ὡς ὅρασις κρυστάλλου , ἐκτεταμένον ἐπὶ τῶν πτερύγων αὐτῶν ἐπάνωθεν . In Job 37:18 also, where the LXX appear to have gone quite astray, the sky is said to be “as a molten looking-glass.” If we are to follow these indices, the primary reference will be to the clear ether in which the throne of God is upborne: and the intent of setting this space in front of the throne will be, to betoken its separation and insulation from the place where the Seer stood, and indeed from all else around it. The material and appearance of this pavement of the throne seem chosen to indicate majestic repose and ethereal purity.
	All kinds of symbolic interpretations, more or less fanciful, have been given. Such are those of Victorinus (“donum baptismi”), Tichonius, Primas [81] , Bed [82] , Lyra, Calov., al., of Joachim (“in mari vitreo sacrum designatur scripturarum volumen”), of Alcas. (repentance), of Ribera (“ego mare vitreum dici arbitror multitudinem hominum in terra viventium”), Paræus, al., of Vitringa (“id, quo clare intelligimus regnum Dei in Christo Jesu niti et fundari: id vero est α ) certa et constans Dei  voluntas , qua constituit regnum gratiæ habere inter homines.… β )  jus certum et liquidum ejusmodi regnum gratiæ inter homines erigendi …”), Herder, al., of Bengel and Hengstb., that the sea of glass, on account of its being described as mixed with fire in ch. Revelation 15:2 , is “  das Product der sieben Feuerlampen ,” and (Psalms 36:6 , “Thy judgments are a great deep”) betokens the great and wonderful works of God, His righteous and holy ways. But as Düsterd. remarks, the parallel place, ch. Revelation 5:6 , where the seven lamps are seven  eyes , precludes this: of Aretius, Grot., and Ebrard, who, because the sea, in its stormy and agitated state, represents (ch. Rev 17:15 ) the nations of the earth in their godless state, therefore the pure and calm sea represents (Ebr.) the creatures in their proper relation to their Creator, or (Aret.) “cœtum ecclesiæ triumphantis,” or as Grot. strangely, and as De W. remarks, most unfelicitously, “summa puritas plebis Hierosolymitanæ ejus quæ Christo nomen dederat: quæ puritas describitur Act. ii. et iv.” Düsterd. connects it, and in fact identifies it, with the river of the water of life, λαμπρ . ὡς κρύσταλλον , which, ch. Revelation 22:1 , proceeded out of the throne of God and the Lamb. But the whole vision there is quite distinct from this, and each one has its own propriety in detail. To identify the two, is to confound them: nor does ch. Rev 15:2 at all justify this interpretation. There, as here, it is the purity, calmness, and majesty of God’s rule which are signified by the figure).  And in the midst of the throne (not, as Hengstb.,  under the throne: their movements are free, cf. ch. Revelation 15:7 . See below),  and round about the throne (i. e. so that in the Apostle’s view they partly hid the throne, partly overlapped the throne, being symmetrically arranged with regard to it, i. e. as the number necessitates, one in the midst of each side),  four living-beings (the E. V., “  beasts ,” is the most unfortunate word that could be imagined. A far better one is that now generally adopted, “  living creatures :” the only objection to it being that when we come to Revelation 4:9 ; Revelation 4:11 , we give the idea, in conjoining “  living-creatures ” and “  created ” ( ἔκτισας ), of a close relation which is not found in the Greek. I have therefore preferred  living-beings )  full of eyes before and behind (this, from their respective positions, could be seen by St. John: their faces being naturally towards the throne. On the symbolism, see below).  And the first living-being like to a lion, and the second living-being like to a steer (  μόσχος is not necessarily to be pressed to its proper primary meaning, as indicating the young calf in distinction from the grown bullock: the LXX use it for an ox generally, in Exodus 22:1 ; Leviticus 22:23 ; also Exodus 29:10 , and Gen 12:16 ),  and the third living-being having its face as of a man (  or, the face of a man ),  and the fourth living-being like to a flying eagle. And the four living-beings, each (reff.)  of them having (  ἔχων , the gender being conformed to that of the thing signified, see on φωνὴ … λέγων , Rev 4:1 )  six wings apiece (for the distributive ἀνά , see reff.).  All round and within (I prefer much putting a period at  ἕξ , to carrying on the construction; as more in accord with the general style of this description.
	 [81] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [82] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	Understand, after both  κυκλόθεν , and  ἔσωθεν , τῶν πτερύγων : the object of St. John being to shew, that the six wings in each case did not interfere with that which he had before declared, viz. that they were  full of eyes before and behind . Round the outside of each wing, and up the inside of each (half-expanded) wing, and of the part of the body also which was in that inside recess)  they are full of eyes: and they have no rest by day and by night (  ἡμέρας καὶ νυκτός may belong either to ἀνάπ . οὐκ ἔλ ., or to λέγοντες . Partly on account of the  καί , partly as a matter of the mere judgment of the ear, I prefer joining it with the latter)  saying (the gender, see as above),  Holy Holy Holy Lord God Almighty (so far is identical with the seraphim’s ascription of praise in Isaiah 6:3 ; παντοκράτωρ answering usually in the LXX to צְבָאוֹת , though not in that place. See Bengel’s remarks in note on Rom 9:29 ),  which was, and which is, and which is to come (see on reff.).
	These four living-beings are in the main identical with the cherubim of the O. T. (compare Ezekiel 1:5-10 ; Eze 10:20 ), which are called by the same name of living creatures ( חַיּוֹת ), and are similarly described. We may trace however some differences. In Ezekiel’s vision, each living-being has all four faces, Ezekiel 1:6 , whereas here the four belong severally, one to each. Again in Ezekiel’s vision, it is apparently the  wheels which are full of eyes, Ezekiel 1:18 ; though in Ezekiel 10:12 , it would appear as if the animals also were included. Again, the having  six wings apiece is not found in the cherubim of Ezekiel, which have  four , Ezekiel 1:6 , but belongs to the seraphim described in Isaiah 6:2 , to whom also (see above) belongs the ascription of praise here given. So that these are forms compounded out of the most significant particulars of more than one O. T. vision.
	In enquiring after their symbolic import, we are met by the most remarkable diversity of interpretation. 1) Our earliest Commentator, Victorinus, may serve as the type of those who have understood them to symbolize the Four Evangelists, or rather,  Gospels : “Simile leoni animal, Evangelium secundum Marcum, in quo vox leonis in eremo rugientis auditur, vox clamantis in deserto, Parate viam Domini. Hominis autem figura Matthæus enititur enunciare nobis genus Mariæ unde carnem accepit Christus. Ergo dum enumerat ab Abraham usque ad David et usque ad Joseph, tanquam de homine locutus est. Ideo prædicatio ejus hominis effigiem ostendit. Lucas sacerdotium Zachariæ offerentis hostiam pro populo, et apparentem sibi angelum dum enarrat, propter sacerdotium, et hostiæ conscriptionem, vituli imaginationem tenet. Joannes Evangelista aquilæ similis, assumptis pennis ad altiora festinans, de verbo Dei disputat.” I have cited this comment at length, to shew on what fanciful and untenable ground it rests. For with perhaps the one exception of the last of the four, not one of the Evangelists has any inner or substantial accordance with the character thus assigned. Consequently these characteristics are found varied, and that in the earliest writer in whom the view can be traced, viz. Irenæus, who (iii. 11. 8, p. 190) makes the lion to be the gospel of St. John, which τὴν ἀπὸ τοῦ πατρὸς ἡγεμονικὴν αὐτοῦ .… καὶ ἔνδοξον γενεὰν διηγεῖται : the steer that of St. Luke, as above: the man, that of St. Matthew: the eagle, that of St. Mark, who ἀπὸ τοῦ προφητικοῦ πνεύματος τοῦ ἐξ ὕψους ἐπιόντος τοῖς ἀνθρώποις τὴν ἀρχὴν ἐποιήσατο . So also Andreas in Catena. But again Augustine, de cons. evv. i. 6, vol. iii. p. 1046, attributes the lion to St. Matthew, the man to St. Mark, the steer to St. Luke, and the eagle to St. John. These notices may again serve to shew with what uncertainty the whole view is beset. It has nevertheless been adopted by Jerome (Prolog. ad ev. Matth., vol. vii. p. 5, 6), Primas [83] , Bed [84] , and many others of old, and among the moderns by Williams (on the Study of the Gospels, pp. 1 92), Scott (Interpretation of the Apocalypse, p. 132, but making, as Aug [85] above, the lion = St. Matthew, the man = St. Mark, the ox = St. Luke, and the eagle = St. John), Wordsworth (Lectures on the Apoc. p. 116, see also his note here, who, as in his statements on the other details, so here, ascribes unanimity (but see below) to the ancients: “in them  the ancient church beheld a figure of the four gospels”), &c. The principal of the other interpretations have been: 2) the 4 elements; so some mentioned in the Catena; 3) the 4 cardinal virtues: so Arethas, as cited by Corn.-a-lap., and generally: but not in the Catena: 4) the 4 faculties and powers of the human soul; “homo est vis rationalis, leo irascibilis, bos concupiscibilis, aquila est conscientia, sive spiritus;” so Corn.-a-lap. refers to Sixtus Senensis as citing Greg. Naz [86] from Orig [87] Hom. 1 on Ezekiel, vol. iii. p. 361 f.: 5) Our Lord in the fourfold great events of Redemption: so a conjecture in the Catena ( ἴσως δὲ καὶ διὰ τούτων ἡ οἰκονομία χριστοῦ δηλοῦται · διὰ τοῦ λέοντος , ὡς βασιλεύς · διὰ δὲ τοῦ μόσχου , ὡς ἱερεύς , μᾶλλον δὲ καὶ ἱερεῖον · διὰ δὲ τοῦ ἀνθρώπου , ὡς δι ʼ ἡμᾶς ἀνδρωθείς · διὰ τοῦ ἀετοῦ , ὡς χορηγὸς τοῦ ζωοποίου πνεύματος καὶ ἐπὶ πάντας καταπτάντος ), Aretius, Ansbert (inter alia: for he tries to combine all possible interpretations which can relate to Christ and the Church); 6) the 4 patriarchal-churches: so Lyra, explaining the  lion = Jerusalem, “propter constantiam ibi existentium,” citing Acts 5:29 ; the  ox = Antioch, “quia fuit parata obedire mandatis Apostolorum in Judæa existentium, et quia (?) primo in ea vocati sunt discipuli Christiani:” the  man = Alexandria, “nam in ea a principio fuerunt doctores docti non solum in literis divinis sed etiam humanis:” the eagle = Constantinople, “nam in ea fuerunt viri per contemplationem elevati, ut Gregorius Naz [88] et plures alii.” This is referred to by Corn.-a-lap., who ends characteristically, “Hæ quatuor sunt in circuitu throni Dei, id est, Cathedræ Romanæ, in qua sedet vicarius Dei:” 7) the 4 great Apostles, Peter, “fervens animo et in hoc  leoni similis:” James the Lord’s brother, because “  bos patientiam significat:” Matthew, “bonitate  homo antecedit animantia cætera. Puto designari Matthæum qui diu dicitur mansisse in Judæa” (?): Paul, because the  eagle “celeritatem ministerii significat, quod certe Paulo proprium qui sæpius Hierosolymis fuit. Et bene πετομένῳ , quia semper erat in cursu:” so Grotius: 8) all the doctors of the church: so Vitringa, al.: 9) “in quatuor animalibus istis quatuor speciales ordines designati sunt, quorum primus pastorum est, secundus diaconorum, tertius doctorum, quartus contemplantium,” Joachim: 10) the 4 representatives of the N. T. church, as the four standards of the tribes Reuben, Judah, Ephraim, and Dan, which are traditionally thus reported (see also Numbers 2:0 ), were of the O. T. church. So Mede and many others: 11) the 4 virtues of the Apostles, “magnanimitas, beneficentia, æquitas sapientia,” Alcasar (in De W.): 12) the 4 principal angels, Corn.-a-lap., Laun., al.: 13) the angelic, or is-angelic, state of the glorified church: so Elliott, vol. i. p. 87. But thus we have no account given of the peculiar symbolism of these living-beings, nor of the part which they perform in the act of praise below. There are many other interpretations and ramifications of interpretation, hardly worth recounting. But the one which above all these seems to me to require our notice is that which is indicated in the rabbinical sentence cited by Schöttgen here: “Quatuor sunt qui principatum in hoc mundo tenent. Inter creaturas homo, inter aves aquila, inter pecora bos, inter bestias leo.” The four cherubic forms are the representatives of animated nature of God’s sentient creation. In Ezekiel, each form is compounded of the four. Here, the four forms are distinct. There ( Eze 28:12 ), where the prince of Tyrus is compared to one of them, it is called the impression of similitude, and the crown of beauty: in Isaiah 6:0 , where the seraphim, which enter into the composition of these living beings, ascribe holiness to Jehovah, they cry, “His glory is the fulness of the whole earth.” With this view, every thing that follows is in accordance. For when these, and the 24 elders, in Revelation 4:9-11 , fall down before the throne, the part which these living-beings bear in the great chorus of praise is sufficiently indicated by the reason which is given for their ἄξιος εἶ , viz. ὅτι σὺ  ἔκτισας τὰ πάντα , καὶ διὰ τὸ θέλημά σου ἦσαν καὶ ἐκτίσθησαν . The objection brought against this view by Ebrard, viz. that Behemoth, the king of the waters, is not here represented, is mere trifling. He forgets that in the record of creation, the noblest of the creatures sprung from the waters are not fishes, but birds; and that the eagle represents both. It is in strict accordance also with this view, that these living-beings are full of eyes, ever wakeful, ever declaring the glory of God: that they have each six wings, which doubtless are to be taken as in Isaiah 6:0 from which the figure comes “with twain he covered his face (  reverence , in not venturing to look on the divine majesty), and with twain he covered his feet (  humility , hiding his own created form from the glory of the Creator), and with twain he did fly (  obedience , readiness to perform the divine commands). This view is taken by the best of the modern Commentators: by Herder, De Wette, Rinck, Hengstb., Düsterd. Ebrard differs only in this, that he regards them as symbolic not of creation itself, but of the creative power of God. Stern, whose commentary on this whole passage is very able and beautiful, inclines rather to take them as representing the power of divine grace within the church of God: but in his usual interpretation (see in p. 209, on ὅταν δώσουσιν , κ . τ . λ .) treats them as “  alles creaturliche Leben der Natur .” See also my Hulsean Lectures for 1841, vol. i. Lecture ii.
	 [83] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [84] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [85]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [86] Nazianzenus, Gregory, fl. 370 389
	 [87] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [88] Nazianzenus, Gregory, fl. 370 389
	We have thus the throne of God surrounded by His Church and His animated world: the former represented by the 24 elders, the latter by the four living-beings.