 2 .]  Immediately I was (became)  in the Spirit (i. e. I experienced a new accession of the Spirit’s powerful influence, which transported me thither: qu. d. “I was in a trance or ecstasy:” see on ch. Revelation 1:10 . It is hardly credible that any scholar should have proposed to understand ἐκεῖ after ἐγενόμην , “immediately I  was there in the Spirit:” but this was done by Züllig, and has found an advocate in England in Dr. Maitland: cf. Todd on the Apoc., Note B, p. 297):  and behold, a throne stood (the E.V. “  was set ,” gives too much the idea that the  placing of the throne formed part of the vision: “  lay ” would be our best word, but we do not use it of any thing so lofty as a throne.  ἔκειτο is wrongly taken by Bengel as importing  breadth ; and by Hengstb. as representing the  resting on the cherubim. But it is St. John’s word for mere local position: see reff.)  in heaven, and upon the throne (the accus. is perhaps not to be pressed; it may be loosely used as equivalent to the gen. or dat. The variations of the case in this expression throughout the book are remarkable, and hardly to be accounted for. Thus we have the gen. in Revelation 4:10 , ch. Revelation 5:1 ; Revelation 5:7 ( Rev 5:13 ?), Revelation 7:15 , Revelation 9:17 , Revelation 14:15-16 , Revelation 17:1 ; Revelation 17:9 , Revelation 19:18-19 ; Revelation 19:21 ; the dat. in Revelation 4:9 , ch. ( Rev 5:13 ?), Revelation 6:16 , Revelation 7:10 , Revelation 19:4 , Revelation 21:5 ; the accus. in Revelation 4:4 , ch. Revelation 6:2 ; Revelation 6:4-5 , Revelation 11:16 , Revelation 14:14 , Revelation 17:3 , Revelation 19:11 , Revelation 20:4 ; Revelation 20:11 . The only rule that seems to be at all observed is, that always at the  first mention of the fact of sitting, the accus. seems to be used, e. g. here, and Revelation 4:4 , ch. Revelation 6:2 ; Revelation 6:4-5 , Revelation 14:14 , Revelation 17:3 , Revelation 19:11 , Revelation 20:4 (11 seems hardly a case in point), thus bearing a trace of its proper import, that of  motion towards , of which the  first mention partakes. But the accus. is not confined to the first mention, witness ch. Revelation 11:16 , and no rule at all seems to prevail as regards the gen. and dat.)  one sitting (called henceforward throughout the book, ὁ καθήμενος ἐπὶ τ . θρ .: and being the Eternal Father (not as Lyra, “Deus trinus et unus,” so also Corn.-a-lap., Calov.; for He that sitteth on the throne is distinguished in ch. Revelation 6:16 , Rev 7:10 from the Son, and in Rev 4:5 from the Holy Spirit): see ch. Revelation 7:10 , Revelation 19:4 , where we read expressly,  τῷ θεῷ τῷ καθηένῳ ἐπὶ τ . θρ . So that it is not for the reasons sometimes suggested, that the Name is not expressed: e. g. that by Eich. and Ewald, on account of the Jewish unwillingness to express the sacred Name: that by Herder (see also De W. al.], that the mind has no figure and the tongue no word by which to express it: still less that of Heinr., “Nonnisi ex negligentia scribendi videtur omissum.” The simple reason seems to be, as assigned by Hengstb. and Düsterd., that St. John would describe simply that which he saw,  as he saw it. For the same reason he does not name Christ expressly in the first vision, ch. Rev 1:13 ):  and he that sat (no need to supply “  was ,” as ἦν in rec.: the nominatives are all correlative after ἰδού )  like in appearance (lit., “  in vision ,” “  in sight ,” as E. V. in the next clause: dat. of form or manner, cf. Winer, edn. 6, § 31. 6, and see 1 Corinthians 14:20 ; Philippians 2:8 ; Php 3:5 )  to a jasper and sardine stone (Epiphanius, in his treatise on the twelve stones in Aaron’s breastplate says, λίθος ἴασπις , οὗτός ἐστι τῷ εἴδει σμαραγδίζων (see below). παρὰ δὲ τὰ χείλη τοῦ Θερμώδοντος ποταμοῦ εὑρίσκεται … ἀλλ ʼ ἔστι γένος πολὺ καλούμενον Ἀμαθούσιον , τὸ εἶδος δὲ τοιόνδε ἐστὶ τοῦ λίθου · κατὰ τὴν σμάραγδόν ἐστι χλωρίζουσα , ἀλλὰ ἀμβλυτέρα καὶ ἀμαυροτέρα . καὶ ἔνδοθεν χλωρὸν ἔχει τὸ σῶμα , ἐοικυῖα ἰῷ χαλκοῦ , ἔχουσα φλέβας τετραστίχους κ . τ . λ . He then describes several other kinds, a purple, a yellow, &c. One kind appears to be that meant in our ch. Revelation 21:11 , where we have the glory of God like ὡς λίθῳ ἰάσπιδι κρυσταλλίζοντι : for he describes it as ἄλλη κρυστάλλου ὕδατι ὁμοία . It is true that Epiphanius may have put in this species merely to satisfy ch. Revelation 21:11 . From this latter passage, where it is described as τιμιώτατος , which jasper, as commonly known, never was, Ebrard argues that by ἴασπις the  diamond . is meant.  ἴασπις , Heb. יָשְׁפָה , a beautiful stone of various wavy colours, semi-opaque, granulous in texture, used in ancient times for gems and ornaments, but in more modern ones on a larger scale for pavements and tables. Even Pliny wrote, xxxvii. (8.) 37, “viret, et sæpe translucet iaspis, etiamsi victa a multis, antiquitatis tamen gloriam retinens.” The altar in Canterbury Cathedral stands on a platform of yellow Sicilian jasper pavement, 30 feet by 14 feet.
	 σάρδιος , Heb. אֹדֶם , is, as this name shews, a red stone, commonly supposed to answer to our cornelian. But Epiphanius, in his treatise on the twelve stones in Aaron’s breastplate, says of it, λίθος σάρδιος ὁ Βαβυλώνιος , οὕτω καλούμενος . ἔστι δὲ πυρωπὸς τῷ εἴδει καὶ αἱματοειδής , σαρδίῳ τῷ ἰχθΰι τε ταριχευμένῳ ἐοικώς . διὸ καὶ σάρδιος λέγεται , ἀπὸ τοῦ εἴδους λαβὼν τὸ ἐπώνυμον . ἐν Βαβύλωνι δὲ τῇ πρὸς Ἀσσυρίαν γίνεται . ἔστι δὲ διαυγὴς ὁ λίθος .
	Several of the Commentators, e. g. Victorin [75] , Areth [76] , Lyra, Ansbert, Joachim, &c., Bengel, Hengst., Düsterd., have said much on the symbolic significance of these stones as representing the glory of God. Thus much only seems, in the great uncertainty and variety of views, to stand firm for us: that if ἴασπις is to be taken as in ch. Revelation 21:11 , as, by the reference there to τὴν δόξαν τοῦ θεοῦ , it certainly seems it must, then it represents a watery crystalline brightness, whereas σάρδιος is on all hands acknowledged to be fiery red. Thus we shall have ample material for symbolic meaning: whether, as Victorinus, Tichon., Primas [77] , Bed [78] , al., of the one great judgment by water (or of baptism) and the other by fire, as Andr [79] , Areth [80] , Lyra, al., of the goodness of God in nature ( ἴασπις being green) and His severity in judgment, as Ansbert, of the divinity and humanity (“quia nimirum humanitas ejus tempore passionis sanguine coloratur”), &c., or as the moderns mostly, e. g. Bengel, Stern, Hengstb., of the holiness of God and His justice. This last seems to me the more probable, especially as the same mixture of white light with fire seems to pervade the Old Testament and Apocalyptic visions of the divine majesty. Cf. Ezekiel 1:4 ; Ezekiel 8:2 ; Daniel 7:9 ; and our ch. Revelation 1:14 , Revelation 10:1 . But nothing can be confidently asserted, in our ignorance of the precise import of ἴασπις ),  and a rainbow (cf. Genesis 9:12-17 ; Eze 1:28 )  round about the throne (i. e. in all probability surrounding the throne vertically, as a nimbus; not, as Beng. and Hengstb., horizontally)  like to the appearance (  ὅμοιος is here an adj. with two terminations, as those in - ιος frequently in Attic Greek: see Winer (reff.): the construction of  ὁράσει is not as above, but the dat. is here after ὅμοιος )  of an emerald (on σμάραγδος (- δινος is the possess. adj. of two terminations) all seem agreed, that it represents the stone so well known among us as the  emerald , of a lovely green colour: Pliny says of it, ut supra, “quin et ab intentione alia obscurata aspectu smaragdi recreatur acies, scalpentibusque gemmas non alia gratior oculorum refectio est; ita viridi lenitate lassitudinem mulcent.” Almost all the Commentators think of the gracious and federal character of the bow of God, Genesis 9:12-17 . Nor is it any objection to this (as Ebrard) that the bow or glory here is green, instead of prismatic: the  form is that of the covenant bow, the colour even more refreshing and more directly symbolizing grace and mercy. “Deus in judiciis semper fœderis sui meminit:” Grot. So far at least we may be sure of as to the symbolism of this appearance of Him that sitteth on the throne: that the brightness of His glory and fire of His judgment is ever girded by, and found within, the refreshment and surety of His mercy and goodness. So that, as Düsterd. says well, “This fundamental vision contains all that may serve for terror to the enemies, and consolation to the friends, of Him that sitteth on the throne …”).
	 [75] Victorin  us , 380
	 [76] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [77] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [78] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [79] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [80] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2