 9 11 .]  The everlasting song of praise of creation, in which the church joins . It is well observed by Düsterd., that the ground of this ascription of praise is not  redemption , which first comes in ch. Revelation 5:9 ff., but the power and glory of God as manifested in Creation; so that the words of the elders are in beautiful harmony with the praise of the four living-beings, and with the signification of the whole vision.  And whensoever the living-beings shall give (the future δώσουσι must not be pressed quite so strongly as is done by De Wette (so also Stern), “from henceforth for all the time to come: see ch. Revelation 7:15 ff.: beforetime it was not so, seeing that the 24 elders have only assumed their place since Christ’s work of Redemption has been proceeding and His victory developing.” Still, it is more than a mere frequentative put for the regular subjunctive, as Düsterd., after Vitr., Beng., Hengstb., and Ebr. It has a distinct pointing onward towards the future, implying eternal repetition of the act, which the subjunctive would not carry)  glory and honour (i. e., recognition of His glory and honour)  and thanksgiving (i. e. actual giving of thanks: the 3 accusatives are not strictly co-ordinate in meaning)  to Him that sitteth upon the throne, to Him that liveth to the ages of the ages, the twenty-four elders shall fall down before Him that sitteth upon the throne, and shall worship Him that liveth to the ages of the ages (cf. ch. Revelation 5:8 , Rev 19:4 ),  and shall cast down their crowns (to disclaim all honour and dignity of their own, and acknowledge that all belongs to Him. See instances of casting down crowns cited in Wetstein. Cf. especially Tacit. Ann. xv. 29: “ad quam (effigiem Neronis) progressus Tiridates … sublatum capiti diadema imagini subjecit”)  before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord and our (Düsterd. remarks that the ἡμῶν has a force here peculiarly belonging to the 24 elders, as representing the redeemed, and thus standing in a covenant relation to God nearer than that of the 4 living-beings. But we must not forget, that Creation is only a part of Redemption, Col 1:20 )  God, to receive the glory (  τὴν δ . &c., as alluding to the δόξα &c., Revelation 4:9 , ascribed by the living-beings. The articles are improperly omitted in E. V.)  and the honour and the might (observe that  τὴν δύναμιν in the mouth of the 24 elders represents εὐχαριστίαν in that of the 4 living-beings. The elders, though themselves belonging to creation, in this ascription of praise look on creation from without, and that thanksgiving, which creation renders for its being, becomes in their view a tribute to Him who  called them into being , and thus a testimony to His creative power. And thus the reason follows):  because Thou didst create all things (  τὰ πάντα , “this universal whole,” the universe),  and on account of Thy will (i. e. because Thou didst will it: “propter voluntatem tuam,” as Vulg.: not  durch Deinen Willen , as Luther, which represents διὰ with a gen. “  For thy pleasure ,” of the E. V., introduces an element entirely strange to the context, and however true in fact, most inappropriate here, where the ὅτι renders a reason for the ἀξιότης of ἡ δόξα , ἡ τιμή , and ἡ δύναμις )  they were (  ἦσαν , not = ἐγενήθησαν ,  came into being , as De W., al.: for this it cannot signify: nor again, though thus the requirement of ἦσαν would be satisfied, as Lyra, “in dispositione tua ab æterno, antequam crearentur:” nor, as Grot., “  erant jam homines quia tu volueras, et conditi sunt, id est,  iterum conditi , per Christum:” nor again as Bengel, “all things  were, from the creation down to the time of this ascription of praise and henceforward.” The best explanation is that of Düsterd.,  they existed , as in contrast to their previous non-existence: whereby not their  coming into being, but the simple fact of their being, is asserted.
	The remarkable reading  οὐκ ἦσαν is worth notice: “by reason of Thy will they were not, and were created:” i. e. “they were created out of nothing.” But besides the preponderance of authority the other way, there is the double chance, that οὐκ may have arisen from the preceding ου , and that it may have been an escape from the difficulty of ἦσαν )  and were created (they both had their being, ἦσαν ; and received it from Thee by a definite act of Thine, ἐκτίσθησαν ).