1. I beseech you therefore—in
	view of all that has been advanced in the foregoing part of this
	Epistle. 
	by the mercies of God—those
	mercies, whose free and unmerited nature, glorious Channel, and
	saving fruits have been opened up at such length. 
	that ye present—See on
	Romans 6:13, where we have the same
	exhortation and the same word there rendered "yield" (as
	also in Romans 12:16; Romans 12:19).
	your bodies—that is,
	"yourselves in the body," considered as the organ of the
	inner life. As it is through the body that all the evil that is in
	the unrenewed heart comes forth into palpable manifestation and
	action, so it is through the body that all the gracious principles
	and affections of believers reveal themselves in the outward life.
	Sanctification extends to the whole man (1 Thessalonians 5:23;
	1 Thessalonians 5:24). 
	a living sacrifice—in
	glorious contrast to the legal sacrifices, which, save as they were
	slain, were no sacrifices at all. The death of the one "Lamb
	of God, taking away the sin of the world," has swept all dead
	victims from off the altar of God, to make room for the redeemed
	themselves as "living sacrifices" to Him who made "Him
	to be sin for us"; while every outgoing of their grateful hearts
	in praise, and every act prompted by the love of Christ, is itself a
	sacrifice to God of a sweet-smelling savor (Hebrews 13:15;
	Hebrews 13:16). 
	holy—As the Levitical
	victims, when offered without blemish to God, were regarded as holy,
	so believers, "yielding themselves to God as those that are
	alive from the dead, and their members as instruments of
	righteousness unto God," are, in His estimation, not ritually
	but really "holy," and so 
	acceptable—"well-pleasing"
	unto God—not as the
	Levitical offerings, merely as appointed symbols of spiritual ideas,
	but objects, intrinsically, of divine complacency, in their renewed
	character, and endeared relationship to Him through His Son Jesus
	Christ. 
	which is your
	reasonable—rather, "rational" 
	service—in contrast,
	not to the senselessness of idol-worship, but to the offering of
	irrational victims under the law. In this view the presentation of
	ourselves, as living monuments of redeeming mercy, is here called
	"our rational service"; and surely it is the most rational
	and exalted occupation of God's reasonable creatures. So Hebrews 13:16- :, "to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to
	God through Jesus Christ."