9. on the breadth of the earth—so
	as completely to overspread it. Perhaps we ought to translate, ".
	. . of the [holy] land." 
	the camp of the saints and
	the beloved city—the camp of the saints encircling the
	beloved city, Jerusalem (Ecclesiasticus 24:11). Contrast
	"hateful" in Babylon (Revelation 18:2;
	Deuteronomy 32:15, Septuagint).
	Ezekiel's prophecy of Gog and Magog (Deuteronomy 32:15- :) refers to the attack made by Antichrist on Israel
	before the millennium: but this attack is made after
	the millennium, so that "Gog and Magog" are mystical names
	representing the final adversaries led by Satan in person. Ezekiel's
	Gog and Magog come from the north, but those here come "from
	the four corners of the earth." Gog is by some connected
	with a Hebrew root, "covered." 
	from God—so B, Vulgate,
	Syriac, Coptic, and ANDREAS.
	But A omits the words. Even during the millennium there is a
	separation between heaven and earth, transfigured humanity and
	humanity in the flesh. Hence it is possible that an apostasy should
	take place at its close. In the judgment on this apostasy the world
	of nature is destroyed and renewed, as the world of history was
	before the millennial kingdom; it is only then that the new heaven
	and new earth are realized in final perfection. The millennial
	new heaven and earth are but a foretaste of this everlasting state
	when the upper and lower congregations shall be no longer separate,
	though connected as in the millennium, and when new Jerusalem shall
	descend from God out of heaven. The inherited sinfulness of our
	nature shall be the only influence during the millennium to prevent
	the power of the transfigured Church saving all souls. When this time
	of grace shall end, no other shall succeed. For what can move him in
	whom the visible glory of the Church, while the influence of evil is
	restrained, evokes no longing for communion with the Church's King?
	As the history of the world of nations ended with the manifestation
	of the Church in visible glory, so that of mankind in general shall
	end with the great separation of the just from the wicked (Deuteronomy 32:15- :) [AUBERLEN].