6. Blessed—(Compare Revelation 14:13;
	Revelation 19:9). 
	on such the second death hath
	no power—even as it has none on Christ now that He is risen. 
	priests of God—Apostate
	Christendom being destroyed, and the believing Church translated at
	Christ's coming, there will remain Israel and the heathen world,
	constituting the majority of men then alive, which, from not having
	come into close contact with the Gospel, have not incurred the guilt
	of rejecting it. These will be the subjects of a general conversion
	(Revelation 11:15). "The veil"
	shall be taken off Israel first, then from off "all people."
	The glorious events attending Christ's appearing, the destruction of
	Antichrist, the transfiguration of the Church, and the binding of
	Satan, will prepare the nations for embracing the Gospel. As
	individual regeneration goes on now, so there shall be a
	"regeneration" of nations then. Israel, as a nation,
	shall be "born at once—in one day." As the Church
	began at Christ's ascension, so the kingdom shall begin at His
	second advent. This is the humiliation of the modern civilized
	nations, that nations which they despise most, Jews and uncivilized
	barbarians, the negro descendants of Ham who from the curse of Noah
	have been so backward, Cush and Sheba, shall supplant and surpass
	them as centers of the world's history (compare Deuteronomy 32:21;
	Romans 10:19; Romans 11:20,
	c.). The Jews are our teachers even in New Testament times. Since
	their rejection revelation has been silent. The whole Bible, even the
	New Testament, is written by Jews. If revelation is to recommence in
	the millennial kingdom, converted Israel must stand at the head of
	humanity. In a religious point of view, Jews and Gentiles stand on an
	equal footing as both alike needing mercy but as regards God's
	instrumentalities for bringing about His kingdom on earth, Israel is
	His chosen people for executing His plans. The Israelite priest-kings
	on earth are what the transfigured priest-kings are in heaven. There
	shall be a blessed chain of giving and receiving—God, Christ, the
	transfigured Bride the Church, Israel, the world of nations. A new
	time of revelation will begin by the outpouring of the fulness of the
	Spirit. Ezekiel (the fortieth through forty-eighth chapters), himself
	son of a priest, sets forth the priestly character of Israel; Daniel
	the statesman, its kingly character; Jeremiah (Romans 11:20- :), both its priestly and kingly character. In the Old
	Testament the whole Jewish national life was religious only in an
	external legal manner. The New Testament Church insists on inward
	renewal, but leaves its outward manifestations free. But in the
	millennial kingdom, all spheres of life shall be truly Christianized
	from within outwardly. The Mosaic ceremonial law corresponds to
	Israel's priestly office; the civil law to its kingly office: the
	Gentile Church adopts the moral law, and exercises the prophetic
	office by the word working inwardly. But when the royal and the
	priestly office shall be revived, then—the principles of the
	Epistle to the Hebrews remaining the same—also the ceremonial and
	civil law of Moses will develop its spiritual depths in the divine
	worship (compare Romans 11:20- :). At present is the time of preaching; but then the time
	of the Liturgy of converted souls forming "the great
	congregation" shall come. Then shall our present defective
	governments give place to perfect governments in both Church and
	State. Whereas under the Old Testament the Jews exclusively, and in
	the New Testament the Gentiles exclusively, enjoy the revelation of
	salvation (in both cases humanity being divided and separated), in
	the millennium both Jews and Gentiles are united, and the whole
	organism of mankind under the first-born brother, Israel, walks in
	the light of God, and the full life of humanity is at last realized.
	Scripture does not view the human race as an aggregate of individuals
	and nationalities, but as an organic whole, laid down once for all in
	the first pages of revelation. (Genesis 9:25-27;
	Genesis 10:1; Genesis 10:5;
	Genesis 10:18; Genesis 10:25;
	Genesis 10:32; Deuteronomy 32:8
	recognizes the fact that from the first the division of the nations
	was made with a relation to Israel). Hence arises the importance of
	the Old Testament to the Church now as ever. Three grand groups of
	nations, Hamites, Japhetites, and Shemites, correspond respectively
	to the three fundamental elements in man—body, soul, and spirit.
	The flower of Shem, the representative of spiritual life, is
	Israel, even as the flower of Israel is He in whom all mankind is
	summed up, the second Adam (Deuteronomy 32:8- :). Thus Israel is the mediator of divine revelations for
	all times. Even nature and the animal world will share in the
	millennial blessedness. As sin loses its power, decay and death will
	decrease [AUBERLEN].
	Earthly and heavenly glories shall be united in the twofold election.
	Elect Israel in the flesh shall stand at the head of the earthly, the
	elect spiritual Church, the Bride, in the heavenly. These twofold
	elections are not merely for the good of the elect themselves, but
	for the good of those to whom they minister. The heavenly Church is
	elected not merely to salvation, but to rule in love, and minister
	blessings over the whole earth, as king-priests. The glory of the
	transfigured saints shall be felt by men in the flesh with the same
	consciousness of blessing as on the Mount of Transfiguration the
	three disciples experienced in witnessing the glory of Jesus, and of
	Moses and Elias, when Peter exclaimed, "It is good for us to be
	here"; in 2 Peter 1:16-18,
	the Transfiguration is regarded as the earnest of Christ's coming in
	glory. The privilege of "our high calling in Christ"
	is limited to the present time of Satan's reign; when he is bound,
	there will be no scope for suffering for, and so afterwards reigning
	with, Him (Revelation 3:21; compare
	Note, see on Revelation 3:21- :).
	Moreover, none can be saved in the present age and in the pale of the
	Christian Church who does not also reign with Christ hereafter, the
	necessary preliminary to which is suffering with Christ now. If we
	fail to lay hold of the crown, we lose all, "the gift of
	grace as well as the reward of service" [DE
	BURGH].