20.Every man in the calling in which. This is the source from which other things are derived, — that every one should be contented with his calling, and pursue it, instead of seeking to betake himself to anything else. A calling in Scripture means a lawful mode of life, for it has a relation to God as calling us, (407) — lest any one should abuse this statement (408) to justify modes of life that are evidently wicked or vicious. But here it is asked, whether Paul means to establish any obligation, (409) for it might seem as though the words conveyed this idea, that every one is bound to his calling, so that he must not abandon it. Now it were a very hard thing if a tailor (410) were not at liberty to learn another trade, or if a merchant were not at liberty to betake himself to farming. I answer, that this is not what the Apostle intends, for he has it simply in view to correct that inconsiderate eagerness, which prompts some to change their condition without any proper reason, whether they do it from superstition, or from any other motive. Farther, he calls every one to this rule also — that they bear in mind what is suitable to their calling He does not, therefore, impose upon any one the necessity of continuing in the kind of life which he has once taken up, but rather condemns that restlessness, which prevents an individual from remaining in his condition with a peaceable mind (411) and he exhorts, that every one stick by his trade, as the old proverb goes. (407) “Car d’autant que ce nom vient d’vn mot qui signifie Appeler, il ha vne correspondance mutuelle a Dieu, qui nous appelle a ceci ou a cela;” — “For as this term comes from a word which signifies to call, it has a mutual relationship to God, who calls us to this or that.” (408) “Ceque ie di, afinque nul n’abuse ceste sentence;” — “Which thing I say, in order that no one may abuse this statement.” (409) “Vne obligation et necessite;” — “An obligation and necessity.” (410) “Vn cordonnier;” — “A shoemaker.” (411) “Paisiblement, et en repos de conscience;” — “Peaceably, and with quiet of conscience.” 