6.By permission That they might not, by taking their stand upon a precept of the kind that he had prescribed, loosen unduly the restraints of lust, (380) he adds a limitation — that he had written these things on account of their infirmity — that they may bear in mind that marriage is a remedy for unchastity, lest they should inordinately abuse the advantage of it, so as to gratify their desire by every means; nay more, without measure or modesty. He has it also in view to meet the cavils of the wicked, that no one might have it in his power to object in this way: “What! are you afraid that husbands and wives will not of their own accord be sufficiently inclined to carnal delight that you prompt them to it?” For even the Papists, those little saints, (381) are offended with this doctrine, and would gladly have a contest with Paul, on the ground of his keeping married persons in mutual cohabitation, and not allowing them to turn aside to a life of celibacy. He assigns, then, a reason for his doctrine, and declares, that he had not recommended connubial intercourse to married persons with the view of alluring them to delight, or as though he took pleasure in commanding it, but had considered what was required by the infirmity of those that he is addressing. Foolish zealots (382) for celibacy make a wrong use of both clauses of this verse; for as Paul says that he speaks by permission, they infer from this, that there is therefore something wrong in conjugal intercourse, for where there is need of pardon, (383) there must be sin. Farther, from his saying that he speaks not by commandment, they infer, that it is, therefore, a holier thing to leave off the use of marriage and turn to celibacy. To the former, I answer, that as there is, I acknowledge, an inordinate excess in all human affections, I do not deny that there is as to this matter an irregularity, (ἀταξία,) (384) which, I allow, is vicious. (385) Nay more, this affection, I allow, is beyond others violent, and next to brutish. But, on the other hand, I also maintain, that whatever there is of vice or baseness, is so covered over by the honorableness of marriage, that it ceases to be a vice, or at least is not reckoned a fault by God, as Augustine elegantly discourses in his book “On the advantage of Marriage,” and frequently in other places. You may then take it briefly thus: (386) conjugal intercourse is a thing that is pure, honorable and holy, because it is a pure institution of God: the immoderate desire with which persons burn is a fault arising from the corruption of nature; but in the case of believers marriage is a veil, by which that fault is covered over, so that it no longer appears in the sight of God. To the second I answer: as the term commandment is properly applied to those things which relate to the duties of righteousness, and things in themselves pleasing to God, Paul on this account says that he does not speak by commandment He has, however, sufficiently shown previously, that the remedy, which he had enjoined, must necessarily be made use of. (380) “Leurs affections desordonnees;” — “Their inordinate affections.” (381) “Les hypocrites qui veulent estre estimez de petis saincts;” — “Hypocrites, who wish to be regarded as little saints.” (382) “Les sots et indiscrets zelateurs;” — “Foolish and inconsiderate zealots.” (383) “Ou permission et pardon ha lieu;” — “Where permission and pardon have place.” (384) The term ἀταξία is used by our author in the Harmony (volume 1) to mean disorder, as contrasted with the orderly condition of the kingdom of God It contains an allusion to the disorderly conduct of soldiers, who quit their ranks It is used in this sense by Thucydides (7:43.) — Ed (385) “Vn appetit desmesure, lequel ie concede estre vicieux;” — “An immoderate desire, which, I allow, is vicious.” (386) “Pour resolution done de ce poinet en peu de paroles, disons en ceste sorte;” — “For a solution, then, of this point in a few words, let us express it in this way.” 