Teach [μαθητευσατε] . Rev., rightly, make disciples of. In the name [εις το ονομα] . Rev., correctly, "into the name." Baptizing into the name has a twofold meaning. 1. Unto, denoting object or purpose, as eijv metanoian, unto repentance (Matthew 3:11); eijv afesin aJmartiwn, for the remission of sins (Acts 2:38). 2. Into, denoting union or communion with, as Romans 6:3, "baptized into Christ Jesus; into his death;" i e., we are brought by baptism into fellowship with his death. Baptizing into the name of the Holy Trinity implies a spiritual and mystical union with him. Eijv, into, is the preposition commonly used with baptize. See Acts 8:16; Acts 19:3, Acts 19:5; 1 Corinthians 1:13, 1 Corinthians 1:15; 1 Corinthians 10:2; Galatians 3:27. In Acts 2:38, however, Peter says, " Be baptized upon [επι] the name of Jesus Christ; and in Acts 10:48, he commands Cornelius and his friends to be baptized in [εν] the name of the Lord. To be baptized upon the name is to be baptized on the confession of that which the name implies : on the ground of the name; so that the name Jesus, as the contents of the faith and confession, is the ground upon which the becoming baptized rests. In the name [εν] has reference to the sphere within which alone true baptism is accomplished. The name is not the mere designation, a sense which would give to the baptismal formula merely the force of a charm. The name, as in the Lord 's Prayer (" Hallowed be they name "), is the expression of the sum total of the divine Being : not his designation as God or Lord, but the formula in which all his attributes and characteristics are summed up. It is equivalent to his person. The finite mind can deal with him only through his name; but his name if of no avail detached from his nature. When one is baptized into the name of the Trinity, he professes to acknowledge and appropriate God in all that he is and in all that he does for man. He recognized and depends upon God the Father as his Creator and Preserver; receives Jesus Christ as his only Mediator and Redeemer, and his pattern of life; and confesses the Holy Spirit as his Sanctifier and Comforter. Alway [πασας τας ημερας] . Lit., all the days. Wyc., in all days.