Revelation 1:11. The first clauses of the verse in the Authorised Version must be removed, and the words of the voice begin with what thou  seest write in a roll. Under the ‘seeing’ is included all that is to be written in the roll, not merely chaps, 2 and 3; and the command to write is so given in the original as to show that it is urgent and that it must be obeyed at once (chaps. Revelation 1:19, Revelation 2:1; Revelation 2:8; Revelation 2:12; Revelation 2:18, Revelation 3:1; Revelation 3:7; Revelation 3:14, Revelation 14:13, Revelation 19:9, Revelation 21:5).
	When the roll is written it is to be sent unto the  seven churches which are named. These are the seven churches already spoken of in Revelation 1:4, and no reasonable doubt can be entertained that they represent the universal Church in all countries and ages; for (1) The Apocalypse is designed for all Christians (chap. Revelation 1:3); (2) There were other churches in Asia at the time, at all events those of Magnesia and Tralles, probably those also of Colossae and Hierapolis. These two latter cities had indeed suffered from an earthquake before the Apocalypse was penned, but there is no reason to think that their churches had been wholly destroyed, or that, if destroyed for a time, they might not have been restored. Although, however, there were thus more than seven churches in Asia, this book, it will be observed, is addressed not to seven, but to ‘the’ seven (Revelation 1:4). (3) We must bear in mind the importance of the number seven, which often occurs in the Apocalypse, and apparently nowhere in its merely literal sense. Here   as elsewhere, therefore, it is to be typically understood, as an emblem of the unity, amidst manifoldness, of that Church with which God makes His covenant (4) The character in which the Redeemer is presented to these seven churches consists of a summary of particulars which are afterwards applied separately to the seven churches in chaps. 2 and 3. But the summary represents Jesus as a whole; and the natural inference is, that the seven churches constitute a whole also. (5) The symbolism of the whole book is thus preserved. On any other supposition than that we have here a representation of the whole Church of Christ, chaps. 2 and 3 must be regarded as simply historical, and the harmony of the Apocalypse is destroyed.
	