 6. ]  δέ contrasts with the foregoing.
	 λαλ .] viz. ‘  we Apostles :’ not ‘  I Paul ,’ though he often uses the plur. with this meaning: for, ch. 1 Corinthians 3:1 , he resumes κἀγώ , ἀδελφοί .
	 ἐν τ  .   τελείοις ]  among the perfect , when discoursing to those who are not babes in Christ, but of sufficient maturity to have their senses exercised ( Heb 4:14 ) so as to discern good and evil. That this is the right interpretation the whole following context shews, and especially ch. 1 Corinthians 3:1-2 , where a difference is laid down between the  milk administered to babes , and the  strong meat to men . The difference is in the  matter of the teaching itself : there is a lower, and there is a higher teaching. So Erasm., Estius, Bengel, Rückert, Meyer, De Wette, al. On the other hand, Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Calv., Grot., Olsh., al., understand the difference to be merely in the  estimate formed of the same teaching according as men were spiritual or unspiritual, interpreting ἐν τ . τελείοις , ‘  in the estimation of the perfect,’ which is philologically allowable, but plainly irreconcileable with the whole apologetic course of the chapter, and most of all with the οὐκ ἠδυνήθην κ . τ . λ . of ch. 1 Corinthians 3:1 , where he asserts that  he did not speak  this wisdom to the Corinthians.
	We are then brought to the enquiry,  what was this σοφία ? “Meyer limits it too narrowly to  consideration of the future kingdom of Christ . Rückert adds to this,  the higher views of the divine ordering of the world with respect to the unfolding of God’s kingdom, of the meaning of the preparatory dispensations before Christ, e.g. the law, of the manner in which the death and resurrection of Christ promoted the salvation of mankind. According to 1 Corinthians 2:12 , the knowledge of the blessings of salvation, of the glory which accompanies the kingdom of God, belongs to this higher species of teaching. Examples of it are found in the Epistle to the Romans, in the setting forth of the doctrine of justification, of the contrast between Christ and Adam, of predestination (compare μυστήριον , Rom 11:25 ), and in the Epistles to the Eph. and Col. (where μυστήρ . often occurs) in the declarations respecting the divine plan of Redemption and the Person of Christ: nay, in our Epistle, ch. 15. Of the same kind are the considerations treated cf. Hebrews 4:11 ff.” De Wette.
	 But a wisdom not of this world , not, as  E. V.,  “not the wisdom of this world ,” which loses the peculiar force of the negative: so in Romans 3:21-22 , we have δικαιοσύνη θεοῦ πεφανέρωται … δικαιοσύνη δὲ θεοῦ διὰ πίστ . Ἰησοῦ χρ . See instances of the usage in note there.
	The ἄρχοντες are parallel with the σοφοί , δυνατοί , εὐγενεῖς , of ch. 1 Corinthians 1:26 , and are connected with them expressly by the τῶν καταργουμένων , referring to ἵνα τὰ ὄντα καταργήσῃ , ch. 1 Corinthians 1:28 . They comprehend  all in estimation and power , Jewish or Gentile. ἄρχοντας δὲ αἰῶνος ἐνταῦθα οὐ δαίμονάς τινας λέγει , καθώς τινες ὑποπτεύουσιν · ἀλλὰ τοὺς ἐν ἀξιώμασι , τοὺς ἐν δυναστείαις , τοὺς τὸ πρᾶγμα περιμάχητον εἶναι νομίζοντας , φιλοσόφους κ . ῥήτορας κ . λογογράφους · καὶ γὰρ αὐτοι ἐκράτουν , κ . δημαγωγοὶ πολλάκις ἐγίνοντο .
	Chrys. Hom. vii. p. 50.
	 τῶν καταργ .]  who are (being) brought to nought , viz. by God making choice of the weak and despised, and passing over them, ch. 1 Corinthians 1:28 ; not said of  their transitoriness generally , as Chrys., Theophyl., Rückert, nor of  their power being annihilated at the coming of Christ (Grot., Meyer, al.), nor as Olsh., of  their having indeed  crucified Christ , but of their being καταργούμενοι  by His Resurrection and the increase of His Church .