 14. ] He now prepares the way for shewing them that he could not give out the depths of this spiritual wisdom and eloquence to  them , because they were  not fitted for it , being carnal (ch. 1Co 3:1-4 ).
	 ψυχ  .   δὲ ἄνθ .] The  animal man, as distinguished from the  spiritual man, is he, whose governing principle and highest reference of all things is the ψυχή , the  animal soul , αἰτία κινήσεως ζωικῆς ζώων , Plato, Definit. p. 411. In him, the πνεῦμα , or  spirit , being unvivified and uninformed by the Spirit of God, is  overborne by the animal soul, with its desires and its judgments, and is  in abeyance , so that he may be said to have it not; ψυχικοὶ πνεῦμα μὴ ἔχοντες , ref. Jude. The ψυχή is  that side of the human soul, so to speak, which is  turned towards the flesh, the world, the devil : so that the ψυχικός is necessarily in a measure σαρκικός (ch. 1Co 3:3 ), also ἐπίγειος , and δαιμονιώδης , as in ref. James.
	This general interpretation of ψυχικός must be adhered to, and we must not make it merely  intellectual , as Theodoret, ὁ μόνοις τοῖς οἰκείοις ἀρκούμενος λογισμοῖς , Grot. “qui humanæ tantum rationis luce ducitur:” Chrys.: ὁ τὸ πᾶν τοῖς λογισμοῖς τῆς ψυχῆς διδούς , καὶ μὴ νομίζων ἄνωθέν τινος δεῖσθαι βοηθείας , nor merely  ethical , as Erasm., Rosenmüller (‘qui cupiditatum sub imperio omnem vitam transigunt’), al., but embracing both these.
	 οὐ δέχεται ,  receives not , i.e.  rejects , see reff., not,  cannot receive, ‘non capax est,’ understands not , which is against the context, for we may well  understand that which seems folly to us, but we  reject it, as unworthy of our consideration: and it besides would involve a tautology, this point, of  inability to comprehend , following by and by:  and he cannot know them ( τὰ τοῦ πνεύματος , the matter of our spiritual teaching, itself furnished by the Spirit)  because they are spiritually (by the πνεῦμα of a man exalted by the Spirit of God into its proper paramount office of judging and ruling, and inspired and enabled for that office)  judged of .