 9 f.]  But (opposition to 1Co 2:8 )  as it is written, The things which eye saw not, and ear heard not, and which came not up (reff.)  upon heart of man, how many things God prepared for them that love Him, to us God revealed through His Spirit . There is no anacoluthon (as De W.) nor irregularity of construction, as some suppose, supplying after ἀλλά , λαλοῦμεν (Estius, &c.) or γέγονεν (Theophyl., Grot., al.); the δέ in the consequent clause after ὅς in the antecedent, which has occasioned these suppositions, is by no means unexampled; so Herod. iii. 37, ὃς δὲ τούτους μὴ ὀπώπεε , ἐγὼ δέ οἱ σημανέω , and Soph. Philoct. 86, ἐγὼ μὲν οὓς ἂν τῶν λόγων ἀλγῶ κλύειν , Λαερτίου παῖ , τοὺς δὲ καὶ πράσσειν στυγῶ . See Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 184 f.
	 Whence is the citation made? Origen says, ‘In nullo regular libro invenitur, nisi in secretis Eliæ prophetæ,’ a lost apocryphal book: Chrys., Theophyl., give the alternative, either that the words are a paraphrase of Isaiah 52:15 , οἷς οὐκ ἀνηγγέλη περὶ αὐτοῦ ὄψονται , κ . οἳ οὐκ ἀκηκόασι συνήσουσι , or that they were contained in some lost book, of which Chrys. argues that there were very many, καὶ γὰρ πολλὰ διεφθάρη βιβλία , καὶ ὀλίγα διεσώθη . Jerome, Ep. lvii. (ci.), ad Pammachium, de optimo genere interpretandi, 9, vol. i. p. 314, says, “Solent in hoc loco apocryphorum quidam deliramenta sectari, et dicere quod de Apocalypsi Heliæ testimonium sumptum sit: cum in Esaia juxta Hebraicum ita legatur: A seculo non audierunt, nec auribus perceperunt, oculus non vidit, Deus, absque te, quæ præparas tu expectantibus te. Hoc LXX multo aliter transtulerunt: A seculo non audivimus, neque oculi nostri viderunt Deum absque te: et opera tua vera, et facies expectantibus te misericordiam. Intelligimus, unde sumptum sit testimonium: et tamen Apostolus non verbum expressit e verbo, sed παραφραστικῶς eundem sensum aliis sermonibus indicavit.” I own that probability seems to me to incline to Jerome’s view, especially when we remember, how freely St. Paul is in the habit of citing. The words of Isaiah 64:4 , are quite as near to the general sense of the citation as is the case in many other instances, and the words ἐπὶ καρδίαν οὐκ ἀνέβη may well be a reminiscence from Isaiah 65:17 , not far from the other place, οὐ μὴ ἐπέλθῃ αὐτῶν ἐπὶ τὴν καρδίαν . Such minglings together of clauses from various parts are not unexampled with the Apostle, especially when, as here, he is not citing  as authority , but merely  illustrating  his argument by O. T. expressions .