9. And saith unto him, All these
	things will I give thee—"and the glory of them," adds
	Luke (Luke 4:6). But Matthew
	having already said that this was "showed Him," did not
	need to repeat it here. Luke (Luke 4:6- :) adds these other very important clauses, here omitted—"for
	that is," or "has been," "delivered unto me, and
	to whomsoever I will I give it." Was this wholly false? That
	were not like Satan's unusual policy, which is to insinuate his lies
	under cover of some truth. What truth, then, is there here? We
	answer, Is not Satan thrice called by our Lord Himself, "the
	prince of this world" (John 12:31;
	John 14:30; John 16:11)?
	Does not the apostle call him "the god of this world" (John 16:11- :)? And still further, is it not said that Christ came to
	destroy by His death "him that hath the power of death,
	that is, the devil" (John 16:11- :)? No doubt these passages only express men's voluntary
	subjection to the rule of the wicked one while they live, and his
	power to surround death to them, when it comes, with all the terrors
	of the wages of sin. But as this is a real and terrible sway, so all
	Scripture represents men as righteously sold under it. In this sense
	he speaks what is not devoid of truth, when he says, "All this
	is delivered unto me." But how does he deliver this "to
	whomsoever he will?" As employing whomsoever he pleases of his
	willing subjects in keeping men under his power. In this case his
	offer to our Lord was that of a deputed supremacy commensurate
	with his own, though as his gift and for his ends.
if thou wilt fall down and
	worship me—This was the sole but monstrous condition. No
	Scripture, it will be observed, is quoted now, because none could be
	found to support so blasphemous a claim. In fact, he has ceased now
	to present his temptations under the mask of piety, and he stands out
	unblushingly as the rival of God Himself in his claims on the homage
	of men. Despairing of success as an angel of light, he throws off all
	disguise, and with a splendid bribe solicits divine honor. This again
	shows that we are now at the last of the temptations, and that
	Matthew's order is the true one.