11. Then the devil leaveth him—Luke
	says, "And when the devil had exhausted"—or "quite
	ended," as in Luke 4:2
	—"every (mode of) temptation, he departed from him till a
	season." The definite "season" here indicated is
	expressly referred to by our Lord in John 14:30;
	Luke 22:52; Luke 22:53.
	and, behold, angels came and
	ministered unto him—or supplied Him with food, as the same
	expression means in Mark 1:31;
	Luke 8:3. Thus did angels to
	Elijah (1 Kings 19:5-8).
	Excellent critics think that they ministered, not food only, but
	supernatural support and cheer also. But this would be the natural
	effect rather than the direct object of the visit,
	which was plainly what we have expressed. And after having refused to
	claim the illegitimate ministration of angels in His behalf,
	oh, with what deep joy would He accept their services when sent,
	unasked, at the close of all this temptation, direct from Him whom He
	had so gloriously honored! What "angels' food" would this
	repast be to Him! and as He partook of it, might not a Voice from
	heaven be heard again, by any who could read the Father's mind, "Said
	I not well, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased?" 
	1 Kings 19:5-11.19.8- :. CHRIST BEGINS
	HIS GALILEAN
	MINISTRY—CALLING
	OF PETER AND
	ANDREW, JAMES
	AND JOHN—HIS
	FIRST GALILEAN
	CIRCUIT. ( = Mark 1:14-20;
	Mark 1:35-39; Luke 4:14;
	Luke 4:15). 
	There is here a notable gap in
	the history, which but for the fourth Gospel we should never have
	discovered. From the former Gospels we should have been apt to draw
	three inferences, which from the fourth one we know to be erroneous:
	First, that our Lord awaited the close of John's ministry, by his
	arrest and imprisonment, before beginning His own; next, that there
	was but a brief interval between the baptism of our Lord and the
	imprisonment of John; and further, that our Lord not only opened His
	work in Galilee, but never ministered out of it, and never visited
	Jerusalem at all nor kept a passover till He went thither to become
	"our Passover, sacrificed for us." The fourth Gospel alone
	gives the true succession of events; not only recording those
	important openings of our Lord's public work which preceded the
	Baptist's imprisonment—extending to the end of the third
	chapter—but so specifying the passover which occurred during our
	Lord's ministry as to enable us to line off, with a large measure of
	certainty, the events of the first three Gospels according to the
	successive passovers which they embraced. EUSEBIUS,
	the ecclesiastical historian, who, early in the fourth century, gave
	much attention to this subject, in noticing these features of the
	Evangelical Records, says [Ecclesiastical History, 3.24] that
	John wrote his Gospel at the entreaty of those who knew the important
	materials he possessed, and filled up what is wanting in the first
	three Gospels. Why it was reserved for the fourth Gospel, published
	at so late a period, to supply such important particulars in the life
	of Christ, it is not easy to conjecture with any probability. It may
	be, that though not unacquainted with the general facts, they were
	not furnished with reliable details. But one thing may be affirmed
	with tolerable certainty, that as our Lord's teaching at Jerusalem
	was of a depth and grandeur scarcely so well adapted to the
	prevailing character of the first three Gospels, but altogether
	congenial to the fourth; and as the bare mention of the successive
	passovers, without any account of the transactions and discourses
	they gave rise to, would have served little purpose in the first
	three Gospels, there may have been no way of preserving the unity and
	consistency of each Gospel, so as to furnish by means of them all the
	precious information we get from them, save by the plan on which they
	are actually constructed. 
	Entry into Galilee (Luke 4:15- :).