13. And leaving Nazareth—The
	prevalent opinion is that this refers to a first visit to
	Nazareth after His baptism, whose details are given by Luke ( :-, c.) a second visit being that detailed by our
	Evangelist (Matthew 13:54-58),
	and by Mark (Mark 6:1-6).
	But to us there seem all but insuperable difficulties in the
	supposition of two visits to Nazareth after His baptism; and on the
	grounds stated in Luke 4:16, c.,
	we think that the one only visit to Nazareth is that recorded
	by Matthew (Matthew 13:53-58),
	Mark (Mark 6:1-6), and Luke
	(Luke 4:14-30). But how,
	in that case, are we to take the word "leaving Nazareth"
	here? We answer, just as the same word is used in Luke 4:14-42.4.30- :, "Now when we had sighted Cyprus, and left it on
	the left, we sailed into Syria,"—that is, without entering
	Cyprus at all, but merely "sighting" it, as the nautical
	phrase is, they steered southeast of it, leaving it on the northwest.
	So here, what we understand the Evangelist to say is, that Jesus, on
	His return to Galilee, did not, as might have been expected, make
	Nazareth the place of His stated residence, but, "leaving [or
	passing by] Nazareth," 
	he came and dwelt in
	Capernaum, which is upon the seacoast—maritime Capernaum, on
	the northwest shore of the Sea of Galilee but the precise spot is
	unknown. (See on Matthew 4:1). Our
	Lord seems to have chosen it for several reasons. Four or five of the
	Twelve lived there; it had a considerable and mixed population,
	securing some freedom from that intense bigotry which even to this
	day characterizes all places where Jews in large numbers dwell nearly
	alone; it was centrical, so that not only on the approach of the
	annual festivals did large numbers pass through it or near it, but on
	any occasion multitudes could easily be collected about it; and for
	crossing and recrossing the lake, which our Lord had so often
	occasion to do, no place could be more convenient. But one other high
	reason for the choice of Capernaum remains to be mentioned, the only
	one specified by our Evangelist. 
	in the borders of Zabulon and
	Nephthalim—the one lying to the west of the Sea of Galilee, the
	other to the north of it; but the precise boundaries cannot now be
	traced out.