1. Then—an indefinite note of
	sequence. But Mark's word (Mark 1:12)
	fixes what we should have presumed was meant, that it was
	"immediately" after His baptism; and with this agrees the
	statement of Luke (Luke 4:1). 
	was Jesus led up—that
	is, from the low Jordan valley to some more elevated spot. 
	of the Spirit—that
	blessed Spirit immediately before spoken of as descending upon Him at
	His baptism, and abiding upon Him. Luke, connecting these two scenes,
	as if the one were but the sequel of the other, says, "Jesus,
	being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan, and was led,"
	c. Mark's expression has a startling sharpness about it—"Immediately
	the Spirit driveth Him" (Luke 4:1- :), "putteth," or "hurrieth Him forth," or
	"impelleth Him." (See the same word in Mark 1:43
Mark 5:40; Matthew 9:25;
	Matthew 13:52; John 10:4).
	The thought thus strongly expressed is the mighty constraining
	impulse of the Spirit under which He went; while Matthew's more
	gentle expression, "was led up," intimates how purely
	voluntary on His own part this action was. 
	into the wilderness—probably
	the wild Judean desert. The particular spot which tradition has fixed
	upon has hence got the name of Quarantana or Quarantaria,
	from the forty days—"an almost perpendicular wall of rock
	twelve or fifteen hundred feet above the plain" [ROBINSON,
	Palestine]. The supposition of those who incline to place the
	temptation amongst the mountains of Moab is, we think, very
	improbable. 
	to be tempted—The Greek
	word (peirazein) means simply to try or make proof of;
	and when ascribed to God in His dealings with men, it means, and can
	mean no more than this. Thus, John 10:4- :, "It came to pass that God did tempt Abraham," or
	put his faith to a severe proof. (See John 10:4- :). But for the most part in Scripture the word is used in a
	bad sense, and means to entice, solicit, or provoke to sin. Hence the
	name here given to the wicked one—"the tempter" (John 10:4- :). Accordingly "to be tempted" here is to be
	understood both ways. The Spirit conducted Him into the wilderness
	simply to have His faith tried; but as the agent in this trial
	was to be the wicked one, whose whole object would be to seduce Him
	from His allegiance to God, it was a temptation in the bad
	sense of the term. The unworthy inference which some would draw from
	this is energetically repelled by an apostle (John 10:4- :). 
	of the devil—The word
	signifies a slanderer—one who casts imputations upon another. Hence
	that other name given him (John 10:4- :), "The accuser of the brethren, who accuseth them
	before our God day and night." Mark (John 10:4- :) says, "He was forty days tempted of Satan,"
	a word signifying an adversary, one who lies in wait for, or
	sets himself in opposition to another. These and other names of the
	same fallen spirit point to different features in his character or
	operations. What was the high design of this? First, as we judge, to
	give our Lord a taste of what lay before Him in the work He had
	undertaken; next, to make trial of the glorious equipment for it
	which He had just received; further, to give Him encouragement, by
	the victory now to be won, to go forward spoiling principalities and
	powers, until at length He should make a show of them openly,
	triumphing over them in His cross: that the tempter, too, might get a
	taste, at the very outset, of the new kind of material in man
	which he would find he had here to deal with; finally, that He might
	acquire experimental ability "to succor them that are tempted"
	(Hebrews 2:18). The temptation
	evidently embraced two stages: the one continuing throughout the
	forty days' fast; the other, at the conclusion of that period. 
	FIRST
	STAGE: 
	2. And when he had fasted
	forty days and forty nights—Luke says "When they were
	quite ended" (Luke 4:2). 
	he was afterward an
	hungered—evidently implying that the sensation of hunger was
	unfelt during all the forty days; coming on only at their close. So
	it was apparently with Moses (Luke 4:2- :) and Elijah (1 Kings 19:8)
	for the same period. A supernatural power of endurance was of course
	imparted to the body, but this probably operated through a natural
	law—the absorption of the Redeemer's Spirit in the dread conflict
	with the tempter. (See on 1 Kings 19:8- :).
	Had we only this Gospel, we should suppose the temptation did not
	begin till after this. But it is clear, from Mark's statement, that
	"He was in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan" (1 Kings 19:8- :), and Luke's, "being forty days tempted of the devil"
	(Luke 4:2), that there was a forty
	days' temptation before the three specific temptations
	afterwards recorded. And this is what we have called the First Stage.
	What the precise nature and object of the forty days' temptation were
	is not recorded. But two things seem plain enough. First, the tempter
	had utterly failed of his object, else it had not been renewed; and
	the terms in which he opens his second attack imply as much. But
	further, the tempter's whole object during the forty days evidently
	was to get Him to distrust the heavenly testimony borne to Him at His
	baptism as THE SON
	OF GOD—to
	persuade Him to regard it as but a splendid illusion—and,
	generally, to dislodge from His breast the consciousness of His
	Sonship. With what plausibility the events of His previous history
	from the beginning would be urged upon Him in support of this
	temptation it is easy to imagine. And it makes much in support of
	this view of the forty days' temptation that the particulars of it
	are not recorded; for how the details of such a purely internal
	struggle could be recorded it is hard to see. If this be correct, how
	naturally does the SECOND
	STAGE of the temptation
	open! In Mark's brief notice of the temptation there is one
	expressive particular not given either by Matthew or by Luke—that
	"He was with the wild beasts" (Luke 4:2- :), no doubt to add terror to solitude, and aggravate the
	horrors of the whole scene.