As a dove [ωσει περιστεραν] . In the form of a dove, and not, as some interpret, referring merely to the manner of the descent - swiftly and gently as a dove (compare Luke 3:22 " In a bodily form, as a dove "). The dove was an ancient symbol of purity and innocence, adopted by our Lord in Matthew 10:16. It was the only bird allowed to be offered in sacrifice by the Levitical law. In Christian art it is the symbol of the Holy Spirit, and that in his Old Testament manifestations as well as in those of the New Testament. From a very early date the dove brooding over the waters was the type of the opening words of Genesis. An odd fresco on the choir - walls of the Cathedral of Monreale, near Palermo, represents a waste of waters, and Christ above, leaning forward from the circle of heaven with extended arms. From beneath him issues the divine ray along which the dove is descending upon the waters. So Milton : "Thou from the first Wast present, and with mighty wings outspread Dove - like sat'st brooding on the vast abyss And mad 'st it pregnant." In art, the double - headed dove is the peculiar attribute of the prophet Elisha. A window in Lincoln College, Oxford, represents him with the double - headed dove perched upon his shoulder. The symbol is explained by Elisha 's prayer that a double portion of Elijah 's spirit might rest upon him. It has been asserted that, among the Jews, the Holy Spirit was presented under the symbol of a dove, and a passage is cited from the Talmud : "The Spirit of God moved on the face of the waters like a dove." Dr. Edersheim (" Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah ") vigorously contradicts this, and says that the passage treats of the supposed distance between the upper and lower waters, which was only three finger - breadths. This is proved by Genesis 1:2, where the Spirit of God is said to brood over the face of the waters, "just as a dove broodeth over her young without touching them." " Thus the comparison is not between the Spirit and the dove, but between the closeness with which a dove broods over her young without touching them, and the supposed proximity of the Spirit to the lower waters without touching them. "He goes on to say that the dove was not the symbol of the Holy Spirit, but of Israel." If, therefore, rabbinic illustration of the descent of the Holy Spirit with the visible appearance of a dove must be sought for, it would lie in the acknowledgment of Jesus as the ideal typical Israelite, the representative of his people. " 