 19, 20. ] The  μὲν οὖν is not to be taken here as if there were no  δέ following: the μέν answers to the δέ as in Luk 3:18-19 and the οὖν is the connecting link with what went before.
	 μὲν οὖν  ,   ὁ κύριος  , and ὁ κύριος Ἰησοῦς , are alike  foreign to the diction of Mark , in speaking of the Lord: we have ὁ κύριος in the message (common to all three Gospels) ch. Mar 11:3 but that manifestly is no example.
	 μετὰ τὸ λαλ  . can only in fairness mean, ‘  when He had spoken these words .’ All endeavours of the Harmonists to include in them οὐ μόνον τοὺς λόγους τούτους , ἀλλὰ πάντας ὅσους ἐλάλησε (Euthym [64] ) will have no weight with an honest reader, who looks to the  evident sense of his author alone , and disregards other considerations. That other words  were spoken, we know; but that  this author intended us to infer that , surely is not deducible from the text, and is too often allowed in such cases to creep fallaciously in as an inference. We never shall read or comment on Scripture with full profit, till all such subterfuges are abandoned, and the gospel evidence treated in the clear light of intelligent and honest faith. We have an example of this last in Theophylact’s exposition, ταῦτα δὲ λαλήσας .
	 [64] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ἀνελ  . ] I should hardly say that the author of this fragment necessarily implies an ascension  from the place where they were then assembled. The whole of these two verses is of a compendious character, and as  ἐκάθ  .   ἐκ δ  .   τ  .   θ  . must be understood as setting forth a fact not comprehended in the cycle of their observation, but certain in the belief of all Christians, so  ἀνελήμφ  . may very well speak of the  fact as happening, not necessarily then and there, but (see remarks above)  after these words were spoken; provided always that these words are recognized as  the last in the view and information of our Evangelist. I say this not with any harmonistic view, but because the words themselves seem to require it. (See on the Ascension, notes on Luke 24:51 ff.)