1. one of the seals—The oldest
	manuscripts, A, B, C, Vulgate, and Syriac read, "one
	of the seven seals." 
	noise—The three oldest
	manuscripts read this in the nominative or dative, not the genitive,
	as English Version, "I heard one from among the four
	living creatures saying, as (it were) the voice (or, 'as
	with the voice') of thunder." The first living creature was
	like a lion (Revelation 4:7): his
	voice is in consonance. Implying the lion-like boldness with which,
	in the successive great revivals, the faithful have testified for
	Christ, and especially a little before His coming shall testify.
	Or, rather, their earnestness in praying for Christ's coming.
Come and see—One oldest
	manuscript, B, has "And see." But A, C, and Vulgate
	reject it. ALFORD rightly
	objects to English Version reading: "Whither was John to
	come? Separated as he was by the glassy sea from the throne, was he
	to cross it?" Contrast the form of expression, Revelation 4:7- :. It is much more likely to be the cry of the redeemed to the
	Redeemer, "Come" and deliver the groaning creature from the
	bondage of corruption. Thus, Revelation 6:2
	is an answer to the cry, went (literally, "came")
	forth corresponding to "Come." "Come," says
	GROTIUS, is the living
	creature's address to John, calling his earnest attention. But
	it seems hard to see how "Come" by itself can mean this.
	Compare the only other places in Revelation where it is used, Revelation 4:1;
	Revelation 22:17. If the four living
	creatures represent the four Gospels, the "Come" will be
	their invitation to everyone (for it is not written that they
	addressed John) to accept Christ's salvation while
	there is time, as the opening of the seals marks a progressive step
	towards the end (compare Revelation 22:17- :). Judgments are foretold as accompanying the preaching
	of the Gospel as a witness to all nations (Revelation 14:6-11;
	Matthew 24:6-14). Thus the
	invitation, "Come," here, is aptly parallel to Matthew 24:6-40.24.14- :. The opening of the first four seals is followed by
	judgments preparatory for His coming. At the opening of the fifth
	seal, the martyrs above express the same (Revelation 6:9;
	Revelation 6:10; compare Revelation 6:10- :). At the opening of the sixth seal, the Lord's coming is
	ushered in with terrors to the ungodly. At the seventh, the
	consummation is fully attained (Revelation 6:10- :).