11. white robes—The three
	oldest manuscripts, A, B, C, read, "A white robe was given."
	every one of—One oldest
	manuscript, B, omits this. A and C read, "unto them, unto each,"
	that is, unto them severally. Though their joint cry for the riddance
	of the earth from the ungodly is not yet granted, it is intimated
	that it will be so in due time; meanwhile, individually they
	receive the white robe, indicative of light, joy, and triumphant
	victory over their foes; even as the Captain of their salvation goes
	forth on a white horse conquering and to conquer; also
	of purity and sanctity through Christ. MAIMONIDES
	says that the Jews used to array priests, when approved of, in
	white robes; thus the sense is, they are admitted among the
	blessed ones, who, as spotless priests, minister unto God and the
	Lamb. 
	should—So C reads. But
	A and B, "shall rest." 
	a little season—One
	oldest manuscript, B, omits "little." A and C support it.
	Even if it be omitted, is it to be inferred that the "season"
	is short as compared with eternity? BENGEL
	fancifully made a season (Greek, "chronus,"
	the word here used) to be one thousand one hundred and eleven
	one-ninth years, and a time (Revelation 12:12;
	Revelation 12:14, Greek,
	"kairos") to be a fifth of a season, that is,
	two hundred and twenty-two two-ninths years. The only distinction in
	the Greek is, a season (Greek, "chronus")
	is a sort of aggregate of times. Greek, "kairos,"
	a specific time, and so of short duration. As to their rest,
	compare Revelation 14:13 (the same
	Greek, "anapauomai"); Isaiah 57:2;
	Daniel 12:13. 
	until their . . . brethren .
	. . be fulfilled—in number. Until their full number shall have
	been completed. The number of the elect is definitely fixed: perhaps
	to fill up that of the fallen angels. But this is mere conjecture.
	The full blessedness and glory of all the saints shall be
	simultaneous. The earlier shall not anticipate the later saints. A
	and C read, "shall have been accomplished"; B and Aleph
	read, "shall have accomplished (their course)."