 11.   νῦν δὲ ἔγραψα ]  But my meaning was …; ‘but, the case being so, that ye must needs consort with fornicators among the heathen, I wrote to you, not to consort, &c.’
	That this is the meaning and not ‘But  now I write (the epistolary aorist), &c.,’ seems plain, from the use of ἔγραψα twice so close together, and therefore probably in the same reference, from the fact noticed by Meyer, that if a contrast had been intended between ἐν τῇ ἐπιστολῇ and νῦν , ἐν τῇ ἐπ . must have  preceded ἔγραψα : and from the usage of νῦν δέ , of which Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 25, gives examples, e.g. Plut. Protag. p. 347, νῦν δὲ σφόδρα γὰρ καὶ περὶ τῶν μεγίστων ψευδόμενος δοκεῖς ἀληθῆ λέγειν , διὰ ταῦτά σε ἐγὼ ψέγω , and Lycurg. Leocr. p. 138, ἐβουλόμην δ ʼ ἂν , ὦ ἄνδρες … νῦν δὲ … See also Hebrews 11:16 . Thus by the right rendering, we escape the awkward inference deducible from the ordinary interpretation, that the Apostle had previously given a command, and now retracted it.
	 ἐάν τις ]  If one who is called a brother be , &c. Œcumenius, Augustine, Ambrose, Estius, al., join ὀνομαζόμενος with πόρνος , and understand it either as = ὀνομαστός , ‘  be a notorious πόρνος ,  &c .,’ or ‘  be named a πόρνος  &c. ’ But ὀνομαζόμ . or even ὀνομαστός , in the bad sense, is hardly admissible, and in either case Paul would have written ἀδελφός τις , the stress on ἀδελφός in that case requiring it to precede τις , as it now precedes ὀνομαζόμενος .
	 εἰδωλολάτρης ] One who from any motive makes a compromise with the habits of the heathen, and partakes in their sacrifices: Chrys. well remarks, προκαταβάλλεται τὸν περὶ τῶν εἰδωλοθύτων λόγον ὃν μετὰ ταῦτα μέλλει γυμνάζεσθαι .
	 μέθυσος was, in pure Greek, not used of a man, but of a woman only. So Phrynichus, p. 151 (but see Lobeck’s note),  μέθυσος ἀνὴρ οὐκ ἐρεῖς , ἀλλὰ  μεθυστικός  · γυναῖκα δὲ ἐρεῖς μέθυσον κ . μεθύσην : and Pollux, vi. 25 (Wetst.), μέθυσος ἐπὶ ἀνδρῶν Μενάνδρῳ δεδόσθω .
	Seeing that μηδὲ συνεσθίειν must imply a  more complete separation than μὴ συναναμίγνυσθαι , it cannot be applied to the ἀγάπαι (as Mosheim, al.), but must keep its general meaning,  not even to sit at table with such an one . This rule, as that in 2 Thessalonians 3:14 , regards only their  private intercourse with the offending person: nothing is  here said of public excommunication, though for some of these crimes it would be implied.