 7 .] The  παλαιὰ ζύμη is not the  man , but the  crime attaching to their character as a church, which was a remnant of their unconverted state, their παλαιὸς ἄνθρωπος . This they are to purge out from among them. The ἐκκαθάρ . alludes to the careful ‘purging out’ from the houses of every thing leavened before the commencement of the feast of unleavened bread. Schöttgen, Hor. Hebr., in loc., gives a full account of the extreme care with which this was done. See also Stanley’s note.
	 That ye may be a new lump (opposed to the παλαιὸς ἄνθρωπος of old and dissolute days),  as ye are (normally and by your Christian profession)  unleavened (i.e. dead to sin and free from it). This indicating the state by profession, the  normal state, as a fact, and the  grounding of exhortations on it, is common enough with our Apostle, see Romans 6:3-4 ; ch. 1 Corinthians 3:16 , al. freq., and involves no tautology here, any more than elsewhere.
	An unfortunate interpretation has been given to these words, ‘as ye are  now celebrating the feast of unleavened bread ;’ and has met with some recent defenders, e.g. Wieseler, and Conybeare, Life and Epistles of St. Paul, edn. 2, vol. ii. p. 40, note. But first,  the words will not admit it ; for ἄζυμοι cannot (as joined immediately with ἐν ἀζύμοις , 1Co 5:8 ) without much harshness be applied in its literal sense to the  celebrators of the feast, but must indicate the  material which was unleavened, see reff., ἄρτον ζυμιτήν , ἄζυμον , Athenæus iii. 109, and Genesis 19:3 ; Exodus 29:2 . Secondly, the celebration of a Jewish feast would certainly not be predicated without remark of a whole mixed congregation of Gentiles and Jews, even supposing that the Gentile converts did celebrate it with the Jews. It is no answer to this, to cite passages (see Conyb.and Howson, ubi supra), where he seems to treat mixed churches, e.g. Galatians 4:8 ; Romans 7:1 ; Romans 11:18 , as if they belonged wholly to one or other of their component elements. For this is not a parallel case. He would here, as above, be distinctly  predicating, as a fact, of the whole church, a practice which he himself would have been the first to deprecate. See Galatians 4:10 . Thirdly, it is not at all probable that the Apostle would either address the Corinthians as  engaged in a feast which  he, at Ephesus, was then celebrating, seeing that it would probably  be over before his letter could be delivered, or would  anticipate their being engaged in it when they received his letter, if it were yet to come. For be it remembered, that in the sense required, they would only be ἄζυμοι during seven days. Here again, I do not see how the example of “a birth-day letter to a friend in India,” adduced by Mr. Conybeare, as an answer to my objection, will apply. It seems to me that if strictly considered, in detail, it tells my way, not his. But, fourthly, and even could all the other objections be answered, this would remain in its full force, the reference is one  wholly alien from the habit and spirit of our Apostle . The ordinances of the old law are to him  not points on whose actual observance to ground spiritual lessons , but things passed away in their literal acceptance, and  become spiritual verities in Christ. He thus regards the Corinthian church as (normally)  the unleavened lump at the Passover; he beseeches them to put away the old leaven from among them, to correspond with this their normal state:  for , he adds, it is high time for us to be ἄζυμοι in very deed ( καὶ γάρ so Xen. Anab. v. 8. 7, ἀκούσατε , ἔφη , καὶ γὰρ ἄξιον . It introduces a powerful reason,  for (on other accounts and)  also. See Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 137, 8), seeing that  our Passover was sacrificed (see reff.: and cf. Hebrews 9:26 ; Heb 9:28 ),  even Christ (the days of unleavened bread  began with the Passover-sacrifice):  therefore (reff.)  let us keep the feast (not the  actual Passover, but the continued Passover-feast of Christians on whose behalf Christ has died. There is no change of metaphor: the Corinthians are the living ἄρτοι , as believers are the living stones of the spiritual temple)  not in (as our element)  the old leaven (general our old unconverted state),  nor (particular)  in the leaven of vice and wickedness (the genitives are of apposition, ‘the leaven which is vice and wickedness;’ see Winer, edn. 6, § 59. 8.  a ),  but in the unleavenedness ( τὰ ἄζυμα , unleavened things, see Exodus 12:15 ; Exo 12:18 )  of sincerity and truth. The view here maintained is that of Chrys., καὶ αὐτὸς δὲ ἐπιμένει τῇ μεταφορᾷ , ἀναμιμνήσκων παλαιᾶς αὐτοὺς ἱστορίας , καὶ πάσχα καὶ ἀζύμων , καὶ τῶν εὐεργεσιῶν τῶν τότε καὶ τῶν νῦν , καὶ τῶν κολάσεων καὶ τῶν τιμωριῶν · ἑορτῆς ἄρα ὁ παρὼν καιρός .  καὶ γὰρ εἰπὼν  ἑορτάζωμεν , οὐκ ἐπειδὴ πάσχα παρῆν , οὐδὲ ἐπειδὴ ἡ πεντηκοστή , ἔλεγεν , ἀλλὰ δεικνὺς ὅτι πᾶς ὁ χρόνος ἑορτῆς ἐστι καιρὸς τοῖς Χριστιανοῖς διὰ τὴν ὑπερβολὴ τῶν δοθέντων ἀγαθῶν . Hom. xv. p. 128.
	With regard to the chronological superstructure which has been built (by Wieseler and others) on this passage,  that the Epistle was written  shortly before Easter , we cannot of course say that the approach of the Passover  may not have  suggested to the Apostle this similitude: and we know from ch. 1Co 16:8 that he was looking forward to Pentecost. But further than this it would not be safe to assume: see Prolegg. to this Epistle, § vi. 3, 4.