 1. ]  ὅλως  , actually , ‘omnino,’ see reff.: in negative sentences, ‘at all.’
	 ἀκούεται ἐν ὑμ  .   πορνεία ] another way of saying ἀκούουσί τινες ἐν ὑμ . πόρνοι ,  the character of   πόρνος  is borne (by some) among you, fornication is borne as a character among you . From missing this sense of ἀκούομαι , Commentators have gone wrong (1) as to ὅλως , rendering it ‘  commonly ,’ to suit ἀκούεται , ‘  is reported ,’ (2) as to ἐν ὑμῖν , joining it with πορνεία , whereas it belongs to ἀκούεται , (3) as to ἥτις οὐδὲ ἐν τ . ἔθν ., see below.
	 καὶ τοιαύτ  .   π  . ]  And fornication of such a sort (the καί rises in a climax, there being an ellipsis of οὐ μόνον …‚ ἀλλὰ … before it; so Aristoph. Ran. 116, ὦ σχέτλιε , τολμήσεις γὰρ ἰέναι καὶ σύ γε ; see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 134),  as (is) not (borne as a character)  even among the heathen . The ὀνομάξεται of the rec. is a clumsy gloss, probably from Ephesians 5:3 ; the meaning being, that not even among the heathen does any one ἀκούει πόρνος in this sense, that it was a crime that they would not tolerate as a matter of public notoriety.  So that one among yon has (  as wife most probably, not merely  as concubine : the word ἔχω in such cases universally in the N. T. signifying  to possess in marriage : and Meyer remarks that ὁ τὸ ἔργον τοῦτο ποιήσας ( 1Co 5:2 ), and τὸν οὕτως τοῦτο κατεργασάμενον ( 1Co 5:3 ) seem to point to a consummation of marriage, not to mere concubinage)  his father’s wife (i.e. his step-mother, see Leviticus 18:8 ; οὐκ εἶπε μητρυιὰν ἀλλὰ γυναῖκα πατρός , ὥστε πολλῷ χαλεπώτερον πλῆξαι , Chrys. Hom. xv. p. 125).
	The Commentators generally refer to Cicero, Pro Cluentio, 5, 6, “Nubit genero socrus, nullis auspicibus, nullis auctoribus, funestis ominibus omnium omnibus. O mulieris scelus incredibile, et præter hanc unam, in omni vita inauditum,” &c.
	It may seem astonishing that the authorities in the Corinthian church should have allowed such a case to escape them, or if known, should have tolerated it. Perhaps the universal laxity of morals at Corinth may have weakened the severity even of the Christian elders: perhaps, as has often been suggested, the offender, if a Jewish convert, might defend his conduct by the Rabbinical maxim that in the case of a proselyte, the forbidden degrees were annulled, a  new birth having been undergone by him (see Maimon. in Wetst.). This latter however is rendered improbable by the fact that the Apostle says nothing of the  woman , which he would have done had she been a Christian: and that Jewish maxim was taxed with the condition, that a proselyte might marry any of his or her former relatives, ‘  modo ad Judaicam religionem transierint .’ The father was living, and is described in 2 Corinthians 7:12 , as ὁ ἀδικηθείς ; and from the Apostle saying there that he did not write  on his account , he was probably a Christian.