 10. ]  οὐ πάντως  limits the prohibition , which perhaps had been complained of owing to its strictness, and the impossibility of complying with it in so dissolute a place as Corinth, and  excepts the fornicators of  this world , i.e. who are  not professing Christians :  not under all circumstances with the fornicators of this world: so Theophr. C. P. vi. 25, cited by Wetst. on Romans 3:9 , ποιεῖ γὰρ οὐ πάντως , ἀλλ ʼ ἐὰν οὐλή τις ᾖ ὑπόκαυστος .
	οὐ , not μή , because not the whole context of the prohibition is negatived, but only one portion of it, and thus οὐ πάντως τ . π . τ . κός . τ . stands together as one idea. So Thucyd. i. 51, ὑποτοπήσαντες ἀπ ʼ Ἀθηνῶν εἶναι  οὐχ ὅσας ἑώρων ἀλλὰ πλείους . See more examples in Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. p. 125, 6.
	 τοῦ κόσμ  .   τούτου ,  belonging to the number of unbelievers, Christians who were πόρνοι being  expressly excluded. So Paul ever uses this expression, ch. 1 Corinthians 3:19 ; (2 Corinthians 4:4 ;) Ephesians 2:2 .
	 πλεονέκταις and  ἅρπαξιν are joined by καί , as belonging to the same class that of  covetous persons; πλεονέκτης being an  avaricious person, not a  lascivious one, as sometimes rendered (e.g. Conybeare, vol. ii. p. 41, edn. 2), nor does it seem to have any where merely this meaning; see Eph 4:19 and note. Compare on the other side Stanley’s note here, which however has not convinced me. The root of the two sins being the same, viz. lust or greed, they come often to be mentioned together and as if running into one another. See Trench, N. T, Syn. pp. 91, 2. On ἅρπαξιν , Stanley remarks, “It is difficult to see why it should be expressly introduced here, especially if πλεονέκτης has the meaning of sensuality.” Certainly: but not, if πλ . retains its proper meaning, as containing the key to πορνεία on the one hand, and ἁρπαγή on the other.
	 ἐπεὶ ὠφ  . ]  For in that case ye must go out of the world , as Chrys. and Theophyl., ἑτέραν οἰκουμένην ζητῆσαι . The past ὠφείλ ., as ἔχρην , al., because the necessity would long ago have occurred and the act have passed.