 4 .] We may arrange this sentence in four different ways: (1) ἐν τῷ ὀν . may belong to συναχθέντων , and σὺν τῇ δυν . to παραδοῦναι , so Beza, Calov., Billroth, Olsh., al.: (2) both ἐν τῷ ὀν . and σὺν τῇ δυν . may belong to συναχθέντων , so Chrys., Theophyl. (altern.), Calvin (quoting for σὺν τῇ δυν . Mat 18:20 ), Grot., Rückert: (3) both may belong to παραδοῦναι , so Mosheim, Schrader, al.: or (4) ἐν τῷ ὀν . belongs to παραδοῦναι , and σὺν τῇ δυν . to συναχθέντων , so Luther, Castal., Estius, Bengel, De Wette, Meyer, al. And this, I am persuaded, is the right arrangement. For according to (2) and (3), the balance of the sentence would be destroyed, no adjunct of authority being given to one member of it, and  both to the other: and (1) is hardly consistent with the arrangement of the clauses, the parenthetical portion beginning far more naturally with the participle than with ἐν τῷ ὀν ., not to mention that the common formula of the Apostles’ speaking authoritatively, is ἐν τῷ ὀνόματι Ἰησοῦ χρ . or the like: see Acts 3:16 ; Acts 16:18 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:6 . The sentence then will stand: (  I have decreed), in the name of our Lord Jesus (when ye have been assembled together and my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus ), (i.e. ‘I myself, in spirit, endowed by our Lord Jesus with apostolic power:’ σὺν τῇ δυν . belongs to τοῦ ἐμοῦ πνεύμ ., and is not, as in Chrys., see above merely an element in the assembly)  to deliver such an one (reff.)  to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord .  What does this sentence import ? Not,  mere excommunication , though it is doubtless  included . It was a delegation to the Corinthian church of a  special power, reserved to the Apostles themselves , of  inflicting corporeal death or disease as a punishment for sin. Of this we have notable examples in the case of Ananias and Sapphira, and Elymas, and another hinted at 1 Timothy 1:20 . The congregation itself could αἴρειν ἐκ μέσου , but it could not παραδοῦναι τῷ σατανᾷ εἰς ὄλεθρον τῆς σαρκός , without the authorized concurrence of the Apostle’s πνεύματος , σὺν τῇ δυν . τ . κυρ . ἡμ . Ἰησοῦ .
	What the ὄλεθρος τ . σαρκός was to be, does not appear: certainly more than the mere destruction of his pride and lust by repentance, as some (Estius, Beza, Grot., al.) suppose: rather, as Chrys., ἵνα μαστίξῃ αὐτὸν ἕλκει πονηρῷ ἢ νόσῳ ἑτέρᾳ . Hom. xv. p. 127. Estius’s objection to this, that in 2 Corinthians 2:7 . we find no trace of such bodily chastisement, is not to the point, because we have no proof that this παράδοσις  was ever inflicted , nor does the Apostle  command it, but only describes it as his own determination, held as it were  in terrorem over the offender. See note on 1 Corinthians 5:13 .
	Obs.,  σαρκός , the offending element, not σώματος . Paul could not say ὄλεθρον τοῦ σώματος , seeing that the body is to partake of the salvation of the spirit; but not the σάρξ , see ch. 1 Corinthians 15:50 .