 31, 32. ]  ἀρχηγ  .   κ  .   σωτ  . , not, ‘  to be a Prince and a Saviour:’ but the words are the predicate of τοῦτον  as a P. and a S.
	 ἀρχηγόν , as ch. Acts 3:15 , which see.  κ  .   σωτ  . not = τῆς σωτηρίας . Jesus was to be King and Captain of Israel, and  also their Saviour . The two offices, though inseparably connected in fact, had each its separate meaning in Peter’s speech:  a Prince , to whom you owe obedience  a Saviour , by whom you must be saved from your sins.
	 τῇ δεξιᾷ ,  by (not  to )  His right hand , as in ch. Acts 2:33 , where see note. The great aim here, as there, is to set forth God as the DOER of all this.
	 δοῦναι , in his  Kingly prerogative;  μετ  .   κ  .   ἄφ  .   ἁμ  . , to lead to salvation (  εἰς σωτηρίαν , as 2 Corinthians 7:10 ;  εἰς ζωήν , as ch. Act 11:18 ) by him as a  Saviour . Somewhat similarly Bengel: ‘  μετ ., qua Jesus accipitur ut  Princeps : ἄφες . qua accipitur ut  Salvator .’
	The key to this part of the speech is Luke 24:47-49 , where we have, in our Lord’s command to them, the same conjunction of μετ . κ . ἄφες . ἁμ . and immediately follows, as here, ὑμεῖς μάρτυρες τούτων , appointing them to that office which they were now discharging, and, corresponding to  τὸ πνεῦμα τὸ ἅγ . of our text, ἰδοὺ ἐγὼ ἐξαποστέλλω τὴν ἐπαγγελίαν τοῦ πατρός μου ἐφ ʼ ὑμᾶς . By conjoining the Holy Ghost, as a witness, with themselves, they claim and assert the promise of John 15:26-27 ; see also the apostolic letter of ch. Acts 15:28 . When we remember, how much of the apostolic testimony was given in  writing , as well as by word of mouth, this declaration of Peter becomes an important datum for judging of the nature of that testimony also. See a very similar conjunction, 1 John 5:9 .
	 They were God’s witnesses, in the things which they had seen and heard as men: the  Holy Ghost in them was God’s Witness, in purifying and enlarging by His inspiration that their testimony to facts, and in unfolding, from (and as inseparable from) these witnessed facts,  the things which eye hath not seen, nor ear heard . And  in the Scripture THESE SAME TESTIMONIES are conjoined;  that of the Apostles , holy men under the guidance and reminding of the Holy Spirit, faithfully and honestly reporting those things which fall under human observation: and  that of God the Spirit Himself , testifying, through them, those loftier things which no human experience can assure, nor human imagination compass.
	 ῥημάτων ]  histories, things expressed in words: see note on Luke 1:4 .
	 τοῖς πειθ .] Not ἡμῖν , which might make an unreal distinction between the Apostles and the then believers, and an implied exclusion of the hearers from this gift, but generally, to  all the  πειθαρχοῦσιν αὐτῷ , by this word recalling the opening of the speech and binding all together. So that the sense of the whole is, ‘We are acting in obedience to God, and for the everlasting good of our common Israel: and otherwise we cannot do.’ And a solemn invitation is implied. ‘  Be ye obedient likewise .’ It is remarkable that a similar word,  ὑπήκουον τῇ πίστει , is used of the multitude of converted priests, ch. Acts 6:7 .