 36 .] A great chronological difficulty arises here. Josephus relates, Antt. xx. 5.1, Φάδου δὲ τῆς Ἰουδαίας ἐπιτροπεύοντος γόης τις ἀνὴρ Θευδᾶς ὀνόματι πείθει τὸν πλεῖστον ὄχλον ἀναλαβόντα τὰς κτήσεις · ἕπεσθαι πρὸς τὸν Ἰορδάνην ποταμὸν αὐτῷ · προφήτης γὰρ ἔλεγεν εἶναι , καὶ προστάγματι τὸν ποταμὸν σχίσας , δίοδον ἔφη παρέξειν αὐτοῖς ῥᾳδίαν . καὶ ταῦτα λέγων πολλοὺς ἠπάτησεν . οὐ μὴν εἴασεν αὐτοὺς τῆς ἀφροσύνης ὄνασθαι Φάδος , ἀλλ ʼ ἐξέπεμψεν ἴλην ἱππέων ἐπ ʼ αὐτούς , ἥτις ἀπροσδόκητος ἐπιπεσοῦσα πολλοὺς μὲν ἀνεῖλε , πολλοὺς δὲ ζῶντας ἔλαβεν · αὐτόν τε τὸν Θευδᾶν ζωγρήσαντες ἀποτέμνουσι τὴν κεφαλήν , καὶ κομίζουσιν εἰς Ἱεροσόλυμα . But this was in the reign of Claudius, not before the year A.D. 44; and consequently at least twelve years after this speech of Gamaliel’s. On this difficulty I will remark, that we are plainly  in no position (setting all other considerations aside) to charge St. Luke with having put into the mouth of Gamaliel words which he could not have uttered. For Josephus himself, speaking of a time which would accord very well with that referred to by Gamaliel, viz. the time when Archelaus went to Rome to be confirmed in the kingdom, says, ἐν τούτῳ δὲ καὶ ἕτερα μυρία θορύβων ἐχόμενα τὴν Ἰουδαίαν κατελάμβανε , πολλῶν πολλαχόσε κατ ʼ οἰκείων ἐλπίδας κερδῶν καὶ Ἰουδαίων ἔχθρας ἐπὶ τὸ πολεμεῖν ὡρμημένων . And among these there may well have been an impostor of this name. But all attempts to identify Theudas with any other leader of outbreaks mentioned by Josephus have failed to convince any one except their propounders: e.g. that cited in Biscoe from Usher, Ann., p. 797, who supposes him the same as Judas the robber, son of Ezechias, Jos. Antt. xvii. 10. 5, of Sonntag, who tries to identify him with Simon, mentioned Jos. Antt. xvii. 10. 6; B. J. ii. 4. 2, and of Wieseler, who would have us believe him the same with Matthias ὁ Μαργαλώθου , Antt. xvii. 6. 2, 4. The assumption of Josephus having  misplaced his Theudas is perhaps improbable; but  by no means impossible , in a historian  teeming with inaccuracies . (See this abundantly demonstrated in an article on ‘the Bible and Josephus,’ in the Journal of Sacred Literature for Oct. 1850.) All we can say is, that such impostors were too frequent, for any one to be able to say that there was not one of this name (a name by no means uncommon, see Cicero ad divers. vi. 10, and Grot. h. 1.) at the time specified. It is exceedingly improbable, considering the time and circumstances of the writing of the Acts, and the evident supervision of them by St. Paul, the pupil of Gamaliel, that a gross historical mistake should have been here put into his mouth.
	The λέγων εἶναι of our text is curiously related to the ἔλεγεν εἶναι of Josephus.
	 ὡς τετρακοσίων hardly agrees with the τὸν πλεῖστον ὄχλον of Josephus above, and confirms the idea that different events are pointed at in the two accounts. But the Jewish historian speaks very widely about such matters: see note on ch. Acts 21:38 .