 15. ]  ὥστε now takes up afresh the main subject of Acts 5:12-13 , the glorification of the apostolic office,  insomuch, that .… It is connected not only with ἐμεγάλυνεν  αὐτ  .   ὁ λ  . , but also with Acts 5:12 .
	 κατὰ τὰς πλ  . ]  down the streets , i.e.  in the line of the streets , see Winer, edn. 6, § 49, d.
	 κλιν  .   κ  .   κραβ .] Kuinoel’s distinction, that the latter is a poor and humble bed, the former a couch of richer character, appears to be unfounded. (So also Bengel.)
	 Πέτρου ] As the greatest, in pre-eminence and spiritual energizing, of the Apostles. Now especially was fulfilled to him the promise of Matthew 16:18 (see note there): and even the shadow of the  Rock (Isaiah 32:2 , Heb., and E.V., spoken primarily of His divine Master) was sought for. We need find no stumbling-block in the fact of Peter’s  shadow having been believed to be the medium (or, as is surely implied,  having been the medium) of working miracles. Cannot the ‘Creator Spirit’ work with any instruments, or with none, as pleases Him? And what is a hand or a voice, more than a shadow, except that the analogy of the ordinary instrument is a greater help to faith in the recipient? Where faith, as apparently here, did not need this help, the less likely medium was adopted.
	See, on the whole, ch. Acts 19:12 , and note: and remark that only in the case of our Lord (Luke 8:46 [39] ) and His two great Apostles in the N. T., and of Elisha in the O. T., have we instances of this  healing virtue in the mere contact with or accessories of the person . But what a fertile harvest of superstition and imposture has been made to spring out of these scanty examples!
	 [39] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .