 Where much time was spent  (Hικανου χρονου διαγενομενου). Genitive absolute again with second aorist middle participle of διαγινομα, to come in between (δια). "Considerable time intervening," since they became weatherbound in this harbour, though some take it since they left Caesarea.And the voyage was now dangerous  (κα οντος ηδη επισφαλους). Genitive absolute, "and the voyage being already (ηδη=Latin jam) dangerous" (old word from επ and σφαλλω, to trip, to fall, and so prone to fall, here only in N.T.).Because the Fast was now already gone by  (δια το κα την νηστειαν ηδη παρεληλυθενα). Accusative (after δια) of the articular infinitive perfect active of παρερχομα, to pass by, with the accusative of general reference (νηστειαν, the great day of atonement of the Jews, Leviticus 16:29) occurring about the end of September. The ancients considered navigation on the Mediterranean unsafe from early October till the middle of March. In A.D. 59 the Fast occurred on Oct. 5. There is nothing strange in Luke using this Jewish note of time as in Acts 20:6 though a Gentile Christian. Paul did it also (1 Corinthians 16:8). It is no proof that Luke was a Jewish proselyte. We do not know precisely when the party left Caesarea (possibly in August), but in ample time to arrive in Rome before October if conditions had been more favourable. But the contrary winds had made the voyage very slow and difficult all the way (verse Acts 27:7) besides the long delay here in this harbour of Fair Havens.Paul admonished them  (παρηινη ο Παυλος). Imperfect active of παραινεω, old word to exhort from παρα and αινεω, to praise (Acts 3:8), only here and verse Acts 27:22 in N.T. It is remarkable that a prisoner like Paul should venture to give advice at all and to keep on doing it (imperfect tense inchoative, began to admonish and kept on at it). Paul had clearly won the respect of the centurion and officers and also felt it to be his duty to give this unasked for warning.I perceive  (θεωρω). Old word from θεωρος, a spectator. See Luke 10:18. Paul does not here claim prophecy, but he had plenty of experience with three shipwrecks already (2 Corinthians 11:25) to justify his apprehension.Will be  (μελλειν εσεσθα). Infinitive in indirect assertion followed by future infinitive after μελλειν in spite of οτ which would naturally call for present indicative μελλε, an anacoluthon due to the long sentence (Robertson, Grammar, p. 478).With injury  (μετα υβρεως). An old word from υπερ (above, upper, like our "uppishness") and so pride, insult, personal injury, the legal word for personal assault (Page). Josephus (Ant. III. 6, 4) uses it of the injury of the elements.Loss  (ζημιαν). Old word, opposite of κερδος, gain or profit (Philippians 3:7). Nowhere else in N.T.Lading  (φορτιου). Diminutive of φορτος (from φερω, to bear) only in form. Common word, but in N.T. only here in literal sense, as metaphor in Matthew 11:30; Matthew 23:4; Luke 11:46; Galatians 6:5.But also of our lives  (αλλα κα των ψυχων). Common use of ψυχη for life, originally "breath of life" (Acts 20:10), and also "soul" (Acts 14:2). Fortunately no lives were lost, though all else was. But this outcome was due to the special mercy of God for the sake of Paul (verse Acts 27:24), not to the wisdom of the officers in rejecting Paul's advice. Paul begins now to occupy the leading role in this marvellous voyage. 