2. first day of . . . week—already
	kept sacred by Christians as the day of the Lord's resurrection, the
	beginning day both of the physical and of the new spiritual
	creations: it gradually superseded the Jewish sabbath on the seventh
	day (Psalms 118:22-24;
	John 20:19; John 20:26;
	Acts 20:7; Revelation 1:10).
	So the beginning of the year was changed from autumn to spring when
	Israel was brought out of Egypt. Three annual feasts, all typical of
	Christian truths, were directed to be kept on the first day of the
	week: the feast of the wave offering of the first sheaf, answering to
	the Lord's resurrection; Pentecost, or the feast of weeks, typical of
	the fruits of the resurrection in the Christian Church (Leviticus 23:11;
	Leviticus 23:15; Leviticus 23:16;
	Leviticus 23:36); the feast of
	tabernacles at harvest, typical of the ingathering of the full number
	of the elect from one end of heaven to the other. Easter was directed
	to be kept as a holy sabbath (Leviticus 23:36- :). The Christian Sabbath commemorates the respective works
	of the Three Persons of the Triune God—creation, redemption (the
	resurrection), and sanctification (on Pentecost the Holy Ghost being
	poured out). Jesus came to fulfil the Spirit of the Law, not to
	cancel it, or to lower its standard. The primary object of the
	sabbath is holiness, not merely rest: "Remember that thou
	keep holy the sabbath day." Compare Leviticus 23:36- :, "God blessed and sanctified it, because .
	. . in it He had rested," c. The word "Remember"
	implies that it was in existence before the giving of the law
	from Sinai, and refers to its institution in Paradise (compare Exodus 16:22
Exodus 16:23; Exodus 16:26;
	Exodus 16:30). "Six days shalt
	thou labor": the spirit of the command is fulfilled
	whether the six days' labor be on the last six days or on the first.
	A perpetual sabbath would doubtless be the highest Christian ideal;
	but living in a world of business where the Christian ideal is not
	yet realized, if a law of definite times was necessary in Paradise,
	it is still more so now. 
	every one of yon—even
	those in limited circumstances. 
	lay by him—though there
	be not a weekly public collection, each is privately to
	set apart a definite proportion of his weekly income for the
	Lord's cause and charity. 
	in store—abundantly:
	the earnest of a better store laid up for the giver (Exodus 16:30- :). 
	as God
	hath prospered him—literally, "whatsoever he may be
	prospered in," or "may by prosperity have acquired"
	[ALFORD], (Matthew 25:15-29;
	2 Corinthians 8:12). 
	that there be no gatherings
	when I come—that they may not then have to be made, when
	your and my time ought to be employed m more directly spiritual
	things. When men give once for all, not so much is given. But when
	each lays by something every Lord's day, more is collected
	than one would have given at once [BENGEL].