16. The form which
	"thankfulness" (Colossians 3:15)
	ought to take. 
	Let the word of Christ—the
	Gospel word by which ye have been called. 
	richly— (Colossians 2:2;
	Romans 15:14). 
	in all wisdom—ALFORD
	joins this clause with "teaching," c., not with "dwell
	in you," as English Version, for so we find in Romans 15:14- :, "teaching in all wisdom," and the two clauses
	will thus correspond, "In all wisdom teaching," and "in
	grace singing in your hears" (so the Greek order). 
	and . . . and—The
	oldest manuscripts read "psalms, hymns, spiritual songs"
	(see on Romans 15:14- :). At the Agapæ
	or love-feasts, and in their family circles, they were to be so full
	of the Word of Christ in the heart that the mouth should give
	it utterance in hymns of instruction, admonition, and praise (compare
	Deuteronomy 6:7). TERTULLIAN
	[Apology, 39], records that at the love-feasts, after the
	water had been furnished for the hands and the lights had been
	literally, according as any had the power, whether by his remembrance
	of Scripture, or by his powers of composition, he used to be invited
	to sing praises to God for the common good. Paul contrasts (as in
	Ephesians 5:18 Ephesians 5:19)
	the songs of Christians at their social meetings, with the
	bacchanalian and licentious songs of heathen feasts. Singing usually
	formed part of the entertainment at Greek banquets (compare Ephesians 5:19- :). 
	with grace—Greek,
	"IN grace," the
	element in which your singing is to be: "the grace"
	of the indwelling Holy Spirit. This clause expresses the seat and
	source of true psalmody, whether in private or public, namely, the
	heart as well as the voice; singing (compare Ephesians 5:19- :, "peace . . . rule in your hearts"), the
	psalm of love and praise being in the heart before it finds vent by
	the lips, and even when it is not actually expressed by the voice, as
	in closet-worship. The Greek order forbids English Version,
	"with grace in your hearts"; rather, "singing in your
	hearts." 
	to the Lord—The oldest
	manuscripts read, "to God."