2 Corinthians 3:3.  being made manifest that ye are an epistle of Christ.  Nearly all modern interpreters take this to mean, ‘an epistle of which Christ is the  author.’  But with Chrysostom we cannot but think the meaning is, ‘an epistle of which Christ is the  subject-matter,’   as if he had said, ‘all who see you may read Christ in you.’ The other view of the clause seems like a repetition of the preceding one, while this presents the change on the Corinthians in a new and striking light. Besides, if the phrase “ye are our epistle” (2 Corinthians 3:2), means ‘an epistle commendatory of us,’ the phrase “ye are an epistle of Christ,” may well mean ‘an epistle commendatory of Christ.’ Compare Galatians 2:20, “Christ liveth in me,” and Philippians 1:21, “To me to live is Christ,”  ministered by us  as if he had said, by the change wrought through us, ‘We wrote Christ on your character,’ written ...  by the Spirit of the living God  accompanying our message,  not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart. [1]   There is here an evident allusion to the Mosaic law as written on tables of stone. The contrast between this and the same laws as written on the heart is precisely that which both Jeremiah and Ezekiel had predicted as the grand point of contrast between the old and the new economy. “Behold the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah; not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers . . . I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts” (Jeremiah 31:31-33). In Ezekiel, it is the heart itself, which is of  stone,  but this is to be taken away and in place of it a heart of  flesh  is to be given (Ezekiel 36:26).
	 [1] If MS. authority is to decide the true reading here, there can be no doubt that it is this: “in fleshy tables,  even  hearts,” or “in tables  that are  hearts of flesh,” for the evidence of MSS. is overwhelming. But this is so unnatural, that though we would not (with Dr. Scrivener, in the second edition of his  Biblical Criticism of the New Testament,  p. 442) call it “a perfectly absurd reading,” we cannot but regard it, with Meyer, as a slip of the pen: “kardias sarkinais” passing easily into “kardiais  sarkinais,” as Scrivener says, ‘by dint of the rhyming termination.’ Certainly Irenæus (2d century) read as in the received text, if we may trust the Latin rendering, and Origen (3d century); and with them nearly all the versions.
	