7. But when he saw many of the
	Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto
	them—astonished at such a spectacle. 
	O generation of vipers—"Viper
	brood," expressing the deadly influence of both sects alike upon
	the community. Mutually and entirely antagonistic as were their
	religious principles and spirit, the stern prophet charges both alike
	with being the poisoners of the nation's religious principles. In
	Matthew 12:34; Matthew 23:33,
	this strong language of the Baptist is anew applied by the faithful
	and true Witness to the Pharisees specifically—the only party that
	had zeal enough actively to diffuse this poison. 
	who hath warned you—given
	you the hint, as the idea is. 
	to flee from the wrath to
	come?—"What can have brought you hither?" John
	more than suspected it was not so much their own spiritual anxieties
	as the popularity of his movement that had drawn them thither. What
	an expression is this, "The wrath to come!" God's "wrath,"
	in Scripture, is His righteous displeasure against sin, and
	consequently against all in whose skirts sin is found, arising out of
	the essential and eternal opposition of His nature to all moral evil.
	This is called "the coming wrath," not as being
	wholly future—for as a merited sentence it lies on the sinner
	already, and its effects, both inward and outward, are to some extent
	experienced even now—but because the impenitent sinner will not,
	until "the judgment of the great day," be concluded under
	it, will not have sentence publicly and irrevocably passed upon him,
	will not have it discharged upon him and experience its effects
	without mixture and without hope. In this view of it, it is a wrath
	wholly to come, as is implied in the noticeably different form
	of the expression employed by the apostle in Matthew 23:33- :. Not that even true penitents came to John's baptism with
	all these views of "the wrath to come." But what he says is
	that this was the real import of the step itself. In this view
	of it, how striking is the word he employs to express that
	step—fleeing from it—as of one who, beholding a tide of
	fiery wrath rolling rapidly towards him, sees in instant flight his
	only escape!