16. And Jesus when he was baptized,
	went up straightway out of the water—rather, "from the
	water." Mark has "out of the water" ( :-). "and"—adds Luke ( :-), "while He was praying"; a grand piece of
	information. Can there be a doubt about the burden of that prayer; a
	prayer sent up, probably, while yet in the water—His blessed head
	suffused with the baptismal element; a prayer continued likely as He
	stepped out of the stream, and again stood upon the dry ground; the
	work before Him, the needed and expected Spirit to rest upon Him for
	it, and the glory He would then put upon the Father that sent
	Him—would not these fill His breast, and find silent vent in such
	form as this?—"Lo, I come; I delight to do Thy will, O God.
	Father, glorify Thy name. Show Me a token for good. Let the Spirit of
	the Lord God come upon Me, and I will preach the Gospel to the poor,
	and heal the broken-hearted, and send forth judgment unto victory."
	While He was yet speaking— 
	lo, the heavens were
	opened—Mark says, sublimely, "He saw the heavens cleaving"
	(Mark 1:10). 
	and he saw the Spirit of God
	descending—that is, He only, with the exception of His honored
	servant, as he tells us himself (Mark 1:10- :); the by-standers apparently seeing nothing. 
	like a dove, and lighting
	upon him—Luke says, "in a bodily shape" (Mark 1:10- :); that is, the blessed Spirit, assuming the corporeal form
	of a dove, descended thus upon His sacred head. But why in this form?
	The Scripture use of this emblem will be our best guide here. "My
	dove, my undefiled is one," says the Song of Solomon (Mark 1:10- :). This is chaste purity. Again, "Be ye harmless
	as doves," says Christ Himself (Mark 1:10- :). This is the same thing, in the form of inoffensiveness
	towards men. "A conscience void of offense toward God and toward
	men" (Acts 24:16) expresses
	both. Further, when we read in the Song of Solomon (Acts 24:16- :), "O my dove, that art in the clefts of the
	rocks, in the secret places of the stairs (see Acts 24:16- :), let me see thy countenance, let me hear thy voice; for
	sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance is comely"—it is
	shrinking modesty, meekness, gentleness, that is thus charmingly
	depicted. In a word—not to allude to the historical emblem of the
	dove that flew back to the ark, bearing in its mouth the olive leaf
	of peace (Genesis 8:11) —when
	we read (Psalms 68:13), "Ye
	shall be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers
	with yellow gold," it is beauteousness that is thus held
	forth. And was not such that "holy, harmless, undefiled One,"
	the "separate from sinners?" "Thou art fairer than the
	children of men; grace is poured into Thy lips; therefore God hath
	blessed Thee for ever!" But the fourth Gospel gives us one more
	piece of information here, on the authority of one who saw and
	testified of it: "John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit
	descending from heaven like a dove, and IT
	ABODE UPON HIM."
	And lest we should think that this was an accidental thing, he adds
	that this last particular was expressly given him as part of the sign
	by which he was to recognize and identify Him as the Son of God: "And
	I knew Him not: but He that sent me to baptize with water, the same
	said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending AND
	REMAINING ON HIM,
	the same is He which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. And I saw and
	bare record that this is the Son of God" (Psalms 68:13- :). And when with this we compare the predicted descent of
	the Spirit upon Messiah (Isaiah 11:2),
	"And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon Him," we
	cannot doubt that it was this permanent and perfect resting of the
	Holy Ghost upon the Son of God—now and henceforward in His official
	capacity—that was here visibly manifested.