Verse Titus 2:15. These things speak — That is, teach; for λαλει, speak, has the same meaning here as διδασκε, teach, which, as being synonymous, is actually the reading of the Codex Alexandrinus.And exhort — παρακαλει. Repeat them again and again, and urge them on their attention and consciences.And rebuke — ελεγχε. Demonstrate the importance, utility, and necessity of them; and show them that God requires their obedience.With all authority. — μετα πασης επιταγης. With all that authority with which thy office invests thee, and which thou hast received from God.Let no man despise thee. — That is: Act so that no person shall have any cause to despise thee, either for thy work, or the manner and spirit is which thou dost perform it.1. FEW portions of the New Testament excel this chapter. It may well form the creed, system of ethics, and text book of every Christian preacher. Does any man inquire what is the duty of a Gospel minister! Send him to the second chapter of the Epistle to Titus for a complete answer. There he will find what he is to believe, what he is to practise, and what he is to preach. Even his congregation is parcelled out to him. The old and the young of both sexes, and those who are in their employment, are considered to be the objects of his ministry; and a plan of teaching, in reference to those different descriptions of society, is laid down before him. He finds here the doctrine which he is to preach to them, the duties which he is required to inculcate, the motives by which his exhortations are to be strengthened, and the end which both he and his people should have invariably in view.2. The Godhead of Jesus Christ is here laid down in a most solemn and explicit manner: He is the great God our Saviour,ὁ μεγας Θεος και Σωτηρ· human language can go no higher, and the expressions are such, and are so placed, that it is impossible either to misunderstand or to misapply them. HE who is the great God, higher than the highest, is our Saviour; he who is our Saviour is the great God; but Jesus Christ is our Saviour, and Jesus Christ is here stated to be the great God.3. The extent of human redemption is here also pointed out. The saving grace of this great God hath shone out upon every man; none has been passed by, none left uninfluenced, none without the first offer of life eternal, and a sufficiency of grace to qualify him for the state.4. The operation of Divine grace in preparing the soul for glory is next referred to. It cleanses us from all unrighteousness, it purifies us unto God, and makes us fervent and abundant in good works. This system is worthy of God, and is properly suited to the state and necessities of man. These are truths which must be preached, which are not preached enough, and which cannot be preached too often. Awake, pastors! and do not the work of the Lord carelessly. Awake, people! and believe to the saving of your souls. How shall he who is styled a minister of the Gospel, and who neither knows, feels, nor heartily inculcates these things, give an account in the great day, of himself, his calling, and his flock, to God? And when this Gospel is preached faithfully and zealously, how shall the people escape who neglect so great a salvation? Neglect, in such a case, is the highest contempt which man can offer to his Maker. Surely such conduct must expect judgment without mixture of mercy. Reader, lay this to heart.