Acts 26:12.  Whereupon, as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests.  This is the third account contained in the ‘Acts’ of St. Paul’s conversion (see the general remarks and comment on chap. Acts 9:3-18). Of these three, the first is woven into the general history of the first days of the faith; the second is an abbreviated report of Paul’s speech on the occasion of the tumult in the temple, and was spoken from the stair leading from the temple court into the castle of Antonia (chap. 22). This is the third, and it occurs in the argument of his defence of Christianity before Agrippa and Festus at Cæsarea. It contains four noticeable details which do not appear in the two other accounts of the appearance of the risen Lord: (1) The overpowering glory of the light is here dwelt upon in a special manner. We are told how it exceeded even the brightness of an oriental sun at noon. The brightness was so awful, that  all,  including Saul, fell to the ground prostrate through fear. (2) The voice, we are told here, spoke to Saul in the Hebrew tongue [in one of the other narratives of the appearance, this could not have been referred to; for Paul, on the steps leading to Antonia, spoke to the people in the Hebrew   language. Here, however, before Agrippa and Festus, of course he spoke Greek]. (3) The addition of the proverb so well known in classical literature, ‘It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.’ These words must be struck out of the text of the account of the appearance in chap, 9, as they only occur in one of the ancient authorities. (4) The mission of Paul to the Gentiles is here alluded to as forming part of this first communication of the Lord from heaven to the man chosen to be the servant of the Most High (see notes on this further). The other accounts of the conversion are silent as to this most important part of the command of the blessed One when He appeared to Paul on the way to Damascus. Thus the four special additions here made are (1)  the reference to the unearthly glory of the light and its effect;  (2)  the mention of the language  (Hebrew)  in which the Lord spake;  (3)  the quotation of the Heathen proverb;  (4)  the command respecting his mission to the Gentiles.  See the notes on chap. Acts 9:3-8 and chap. Acts 22:6-10, where, especially in the first narrative, the varied circumstances related in each of the accounts are discussed at length.
	