Who hath called us [ο καλεσας ημας] . But the tense is the aorist, and the true reading is uJmav, you, instead of us. Render, therefore, as Rev., who called you; before the foundation of the world. See Romans 8:29, Romans 8:30, and compare unto his eternal glory and them he also glorified. By Christ Jesus [εν χριστω ιησου] . The best texts omit Jesus. So Rev., which also renders, better, in Christ, denoting the sphere or element in which the calling and its results take place : "Christ as the life, head, and very principle of all existence to the Christian" (Cook). Awhile [ολιφον] . Rev., more literally, a little while. See on ch. 1 Peter 1:6. Make you perfect, etc. The Tex. Rec. makes this and the three following verbs in the optative mood, expressing a wish. So the A. V. But the best texts make them all indicative future, and thus convert the wish or prayer into an assurance. Thus, then, Shall himself perfect [αυτος καταρτισει] . The A. V. overlooks the aujtov, himself, which is very significant as indicating God 's personal interest and energy in the work of confirming his children. Shall perfect. Rev. reads restore, in margin. The root of this word appears in arw or ajrariskw, to fit or join together. So arqron means a joint. The radical notion of the verb is, therefore, adjustment - the putting of all the parts into right relation and connection. We find it used of mending the nets (Matthew 4:21), and of restoring an erring brother (Galatians 6:1); of framing the body and the worlds (Hebrews 10:5; Hebrews 11:3); of the union of members in the church (1 Corinthians 1:10; 2 Corinthians 13:11). Out of this comes the general sense of perfecting (Matthew 21:16; Luke 6:40; 1 Thessalonians 3:10). Shall stablish [στηριξει] . The word is akin at the root to stereov, steadfast (ver. 9), and is the very word used by Christ in his exhortation to Peter, "strengthen thy brethren" (Luke 22:32). Possibly there is a reminiscence of this in Peter's use of the word here. Compare 1 Thessalonians 3:13; 2 Thessalonians 2:17; James 5:8; Revelation 3:2. Shall strengthen [σθενωσει] . Only here in New Testament. Compare Ephesians 3:16. Shall settle [θεμελιωσει] . Omitted by some texts, and by Rev. From qemeliov, a foundation. The radical notion of the word is, therefore, to ground securely. It occurs in Matthew 7:25, of the house founded on a rock; in Hebrews 1:10, of laying the foundations of the earth. In Ephesians 3:18, it is joined with rooted. The massings of these expressions, unconnected by conjunctions, indicates strong feeling. Bengel thus sums up the whole : "Shall perfect, that no defect remain in you : shall stablish, that nothing may shake you : shall strengthen, that you may overcome every adverse force. A saying worthy of Peter. He is strengthening his brethren."