 8 .]  Again (this  πάλιν is what is called ἐπανορθωτικόν ; takes up and contravenes what has been as yet said: q. d., “in another view of the subject, …:” “et contrarietatem declarat et iterationem, hic autem non repetitionis sed contrarietatis est declaratio,” as Erasm. It refers to the whole sentence, not merely to γράφω . The emphasis is on  καινήν )  a new commandment write I unto you (“  new ,” in three possible ways of interpretation: 1) “novum dicit quod Deus quotidie suggerendo veluti renovat: … Joannes negat ejusmodi esse doctrinam de fratribus diligendis, quæ tempore obsolescat: sed perpetuo vigere,” Calv.: or 2) “illam præceptionem quam vobis dudum cognitam esse dixi, sic vobis denuo commendo atque injungo, tanquam si nova esset, nec vobis antehac unquam cognita,” Knapp, and so Neander; or 3) in that it was first promulgated with Christianity and unknown before. The two first are condemned by the fact, that the word in each case on which the stress of the interpretation rests, is not expressed in the text: there is for 1) no ἀεί , for 2) no νῦν . The third agrees well both with the context and with St. John’s habit of thought, as well as with matter of fact, and our Lord’s own words, John 13:34 ; John 15:12 . When Lücke objects to it that thus we have to take παλαιάν and καινήν in two different senses, he hits in fact the very point in which this interpretation approves itself the most to those who are familiar with the oxymoron of St. John’s style. As Düsterd. replies, “when I stand at the point of time indicated by ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , and look forwards on the Christian life of the readers, the ἐντολή appears as one long known; the readers have known it from the beginning as an essential commandment, they have had it as long as they have been Christians: on the other hand, if I look backward on the life of the readers before that ἀρχή , whether they were before that Jews or Gentiles, this same commandment of necessity appears as a new one, essentially Christian, first beginning for the readers with that beginning; for even for the Jewish Christians the command of brotherly love is a new one, seeing that it is ordained  in imitation of Christ , Joh 13:34 ”),  which (thing, viz the fact that the commandment is a new one: see below)  is true in Him and in you: because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is now shining (i. e. the commandment  is a new one , and this is true both in (the case of) Him (Christ) and in (the case of) you: because ( ἐν ὑμῖν ) the darkness is passing away, and ( ἐν αὐτῷ ) the true light is shining: therefore on both accounts the command is a  new one: new as regards you, because you are newly come from darkness into light: new as regards Him, because He uttered it when He came into the world to lighten every man, and began that shining which even now continues. This reference of the two clauses I hold fast against Düsterdieck, who maintains that the  ὅ refers to the content of the ἐντολή , viz. walking in brotherly love: that the commandment finds its fulfilment ( ἀληθές ἐστιν ?) in the walk of Christians in union with Christ. But to this there are several objections which he has not noticed: 1) the probable logic of the sentence. The Apostle has made what is apparently a paradoxical assertion. He has stated that the commandment is not new but old, and then has, notwithstanding, asserted its newness. Then he proceeds ὅ ἐστιν ἀληθὲς .… ὅτι κ . τ . λ . Is it not probable that this form of sentence introduces the explanation of the paradox? Is it probable, as would be the case on the other view, that so startling a proposition (after 1Jn 2:7 ) as πάλιν ἐντολὴν καινὴν γράφω ὑμῖν , would remain altogether unexplained? 2) the word  ἀληθές . Düsterd. says, “The Apostle calls that which is enjoined in the ἐντολή ,  ἀληθές , because it finds its truth in its living activity, in its practical reality: it is in deed and truth ( ἀληθῶς , 1 John 2:5 , John 4:42 , ( Joh 6:55 )) living and present, and so far  true, real .” But even granting this sense of  ἀληθής to be possible (which may be doubted: ἀληθῶς is clearly no case in point, its adverbial character removing it into another phase of predication), is it likely that so unusual and harsh a word would be chosen as the adj. ἀληθές (rather than the adv. ἀληθῶς ) when the obvious sense of ἀληθές would so naturally refer it, in the reader’s mind, to the καινότης just asserted? 3) Düsterd. has entirely neglected the repetition of the prep.  ἐν , which fact separates off ἐν αὐτῷ and ἐν ὑμῖν as two distinct departments, and prevents their being considered in union. “Him,” Christ, the Head, and “you,” the readers, as the members, which depend on the Head as the grapes on the true vine, the Apostle regards as united in the real community of life (ch. 1 John 1:3 f.), &c. But this would require ἐν αὐτῷ καὶ ὑμῖν : and accordingly a little below he says, “  Ihm und Euch ist es wahr, was Iohannes fordert .” 4) The strict present  παράγεται is disregarded by D.’s explanation. He upholds indeed a present sense, as against the “  transierunt tenebræ” of the vulgate (“the darkness is  past ,” E. V.), but makes no further remark, not seeing apparently how peculiarly this present fits the application of the sentence to accounting for the  newness of the commandment “You are living in a time when the darkness is rolling away, even now passing:” so that the command, which is of the Light, is well said to be “  new .”
	As in almost every verse of this difficult portion of the Epistle, the divergencies of interpretation are almost endless. Some few only of them can be mentioned here. That recently defended (as above) by Düsterdieck, was before taken by Œc., Luther, Grot., Knapp, Baumg.-Crus., Semler, &c.: that which I have maintained, by Calvin, Socinus, Flacius, Calov., Morus, Horneius, De Wette, Lücke, Neander, Huther. Some take the ὅτι as declarative: “it is true, that the darkness,” &c.: so Castellio, Socinus, Bengel, “  ὅτι ,  quod : hoc est illud præceptum, amor fratris, ex luce.” Erasm., Episcopius, Grot., separate the words ὅ ἐστιν ἀληθὲς ἐν αὐτῷ καὶ ἐν ὑμῖν into subject and predicate: “quod verum est in illo (Christo), id etiam in vobis verum est,” or “esse debet.” The whole discussion, carried into most minute detail, may be seen in Düsterdieck’s note. To mention two matters of verbal nicety: 1)  παράγεται need not be pressed, with Bengel, to its passive meaning: “non dicit παράγει ,  transit , sed - εται , traducitur, commutatur, ut tandem absorbeatur. Idem verbum, 1 John 2:17 , ubi opponitur mansioni.” But the passive is not necessary for this sense: nay, in 1Jn 2:17 it is hardly admissible, and there can be no doubt that the middle was intended, in the same sense as the intr. act., 1 Corinthians 7:31 ; 1 Corinthians 2:0 ) ἤδη φαίνει , joined with the present παράγεται , is best taken to mean, not the full and entire shining of the true light, but its beginning to shine: its full light at the coming of the Lord, is indeed close at hand, 1 John 2:18 , and to that the ἤδη φαίνει looks on.