 19 .] These antichrists are designated as having been formerly attached to the Christian church, but never really members of it. They had not that communion with the Father and the Son in which the communion of Christians with one another really consists, inasmuch as they deny the Father and the Son.  They went out from among us, but they were not of us (it is plain that the prep.  ἐξ must in this sentence be taken in two different meanings: first, with ἐξῆλθαν , in the mere local reference, and even so our Lord Himself uses the expression, John 8:42 , ἐγὼ γὰρ ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ ἐξῆλθον καὶ ἥκω , words which are varied, John 13:3 , by ἀπό , and Joh 16:27 by παρά . And in John 13:3 , the local meaning is stamped as the true one by the addition of καὶ πρὸς τὸν θεὸν ὑπάγει . On the other hand, ἐκ with εἶναι is very frequently used by our Apostle to denote that inner and vital dependence which betokens  origin : cf. John 3:31 ; John 7:17 ; John 8:23 ; John 8:44 , &c. It is clear then from this double meaning of ἐξ , that ἐξῆλθαν ἐξ ἡμῶν should be rendered with Aug [28] and Bed [29] , “ex nobis exierunt,” and not “ex nobis  pro dierunt,” as vulg. The idea of origin should be kept out of view, as necessarily not contained in the words, which are to be understood as Œc. and Thl., γεγονότες μαθηταὶ ἀπέστησαν τῆς ἀληθείας καὶ ἰδίας βλασφημίας ἐξεῦρον . Aug [30] and Bed [31] illustrate their relation to the body of Christ by a homely but instructive comparison: “quandoquidem adhuc curatur corpus ipsius (Domini nostri Jesu Christi), et sanitas perfecta non erit nisi in resurrectione mortuorum; sic sunt in corpore Christi, quomodo humores mali. Quando evomuntur, tunc relevatur corpus: sic et mali quando exeunt, tunc ecclesia relevatur. Et dicit quando eos evomit atque projicit corpus, ex me exierunt humores isti, sed non erant ex me. Quid est, non erant ex me? Non de carne mea præcisi sunt, sed pectus mihi premebant dum inessent.” Aug [32] in Ep. Joh. Tract. iii. 4, vol. iii. p. 1999. On this, see more below):  for if they had been of us (  ἐξ ἡμῶν is emphatically repeated),  they would have remained with us (the E. V. inserts “  no doubt ,” as representing the “  utique ” of the vulgate, which was the result of the futile endeavour to render the Greek verbatim, and was intended to give the ἄν . In some places this endeavour has produced results more serious than here. In John 4:10 , σὺ ἂν ᾔτησας is rendered “  tu forsitan petiisses ,” and by the Rheims version, “Thou perhaps wouldest have asked of Him:” in John 5:46 , “  si enim crederetis Mosi, crederetis forsitan et mihi :” see also Vulgate, and Rheims, and Bishops’ Bible, in John 8:42 , Matthew 11:23 . I am indebted for this useful remark to the Rev. Henry Craik of Bristol.
	 [28]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [29] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [30]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [31] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [32]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	The sense is, if they had really belonged to our number, had been true servants of Christ, they would have endured, and would not have become ἀντίχριστοι : their very becoming so, proves the unreality of their Christian profession. This point is now brought out in what follows):  but (the ellipsis is variously supplied: by ἐξῆλθαν from above; so the Syr., Bengel, Lücke, al.: by τοῦτο πεποιήκασιν , πεπόνθασιν , as Œc., Thl.: “hoc factum est,” as Socinus: “hæc facit Deus,” as Calvin. All these in fact come to the same, provided that we keep ἵνα to its true telic meaning, which must imply a  doer ; and that doer, God. So that it will be better, as the divine purpose must be understood in the depth of the meaning, whatever be supplied, to take the simplest supplement, viz. the ἐξῆλθαν , which is already the expressed verb of the sentence)  in order that they may be made manifest, that all are not of us (the construction is a mixed one, compounded of two, 1) ἵνα φανερωθῶσιν ὅτι οὐκ ἦσαν ἐξ ἡμῶν , and 2) ἵνα φανερωθῇ ὅτι οὐκ εἰσὶν πάντες ἐξ ἡμῶν : and the meaning is, that by their example it may be made manifest that all (who are among us) are not of us. This is shewn by the change of tense from ἦσαν to εἰσίν : and by the impossibility of giving any adequate grammatical sense to the words on the other hypothesis, viz. that πάντες means “they all,” viz. the ἀντίχριστοι . For, of the two ways in which the words have been taken, we have 1) that of the E. V. “that they were not all of us,” which leaves open the inevitable conclusion that  some of them are of us . Œcumenius indeed tries to make the distinction in another way, τουτέστι κατάδηλοι γένωνται ὅτι πάντη ἀπηλλοτρίωνται ἡμῶν καὶ μετὰ τῶν οὐχ ἡμετέρων προσεκολλήθησαν . εἰσὶ γάρ τινες ἐν τούτοις καὶ οὐχ ἐξ ἡμῶν ὄντες , οἷς δηλαδὴ συνῆψαν ἑαυτοὺς οἱ ἐξ ἡμῶν ἐξελθόντες .… ἡμῶν γὰρ ἀποῤῥαγέντες τῶν οἰκείων , ἄλλοις ἐκολλήθησαν τοῖς ἀλλοτρίοις ἡμῶν . But this is manifestly a mistake, and is in fact a confounding of ἐξ ἡμῶν εἰσιν with ἐξ ἡμῶν ἐξῆλθαν , which the Apostle expressly distinguishes. Then 2) we have the way proposed by Socinus, to take οὐ πάντες for “nulli;” not “non omnes” but “omnes non:” in fact making οὐκ belong to the predicate, εἰσὶν ἐξ ἡμῶν , not to the subject, πάντες ; which is the case in Romans 3:20 , ἐξ ἔργων νόμου οὐ δικαιωθήσεται πᾶσα σάρξ . But it may fairly be replied here, that whereas in that passage there is no ambiguity whatever, the words πᾶσα σάρξ falling emphatically at the end, here there would be every chance of the reader mistaking the meaning, no such stress lying on the πάντες as would lie if the arrangement were οὐκ εἰσὶν ἐξ ἡμῶν πάντες , or πάντες οὐκ εἰσὶν ἐξ ἡμῶν . So that our only refuge seems to be, to believe that the Apostle makes their φανέρωσις the proof not that  they were not of us, but that  all are not of us, scil. who are commonly found among us. This is the rendering of the principal modern Commentators: cf. Lücke, De Wette, Düsterdieck, Huther. See on the sense, 1 Corinthians 11:19 , δεῖ γὰρ καὶ αἱρέσεις ἐν ὑμῖν εἶναι , ἵνα ( καὶ ) οἱ δόκιμοι φανεροὶ γένωνται ἐν ὑμῖν .
	It is not my intention to go at length into the question as to the dogmatic consequences which have been deduced from this verse. It may be sufficient to refer my readers to the principal sources of the two antagonistic opinions as to the final perseverance (not of the elect, which is a truism, but) of those who have been once truly children of God. They will find the most complete statement of the predestinarian view as founded on our passage, in Augustine, De dono perseverantiæ, 8 (19), 9 (21), vol. x. p. 1003 f. and De correptione et gratia, 9 (20), p. 928. In the former passage he says, “Hominibus videtur omnes qui boni apparent fideles perseverantiam usque in finem accipere debuisse. Deus autem melius esse judicavit, miscere quosdam non perseveraturos certo numero sanctorum, ut quibus non expedit in hujus vitæ tentatione securitas, non possint esse securi, 1 Corinthians 10:12 . Ex duobus autem piis cur huic donetur perseverantia usque in finem, illi autem non detur, inscrutabiliora sunt judicia Dei. Illud tamen fidelibus debet esse certissimum, hunc esse ex prædestinatis, illum non esse. Nam si fuissent ex nobis, ait unus prædestinatorum, qui de pectore Domini bibebat hoc secretum, mansissent utique nobiscum.” See also Calvin h. l., who sums up all thus, “Quare non immerito dicit, ubi efficax est Dei vocatio, illic certam perseverantiam fore.” The other side is ably stated by Didymus (cited in Düsterd.), whose conclusion is, “Igitur, licet figurate dicta sint hæc, attamen voluntariam necessitatem ostendunt, a quorum et cohabitatione quæ potest esse malis viris cum bonis abscesserint, dum vitio suo tales sint facti. Non igitur oportet intelligi contrarietatem hoc verbo significari naturarum.” The various opponents of the predestinarian view as such, have had recourse, as so often, to various unworthy artifices and untenable explainings away of words, to escape from the inference pressed on them. Thus Socinus and Episcopius lay stress on the fact that ἦσαν is imperfect, not perfect: “non enim Apostolus dicit antichristos illos nunquam antea vere Christianos fuisse, sed tantum quod tum, vel jam antequam antichristos se esse profiterentur, non erant ii, qui esse debebant,” &c. And so even Grot. (“qui ista crepitabant, jam deseruerant Christianam professionem … Si illi tunc ex animo fuissent Christiani cum ista inciperent, non deseruissent cœtus nostros”). Calov.again tries to escape from the inference, by making ἐξ ἡμῶν apply not to Christians in general, but to the Apostles only.
	The best account of the whole matter is found in Düsterdieck’s long note, in which he has thoroughly gone over all the opinions and given his own conclusion. It is, in the main, as follows. The Apostle is speaking here not dogmatically but ethically. As Didymus above, if there is a necessity in the μεμενήκεισαν , it is a “necessitas voluntaria.” As Aug [33] in his comm. here (written sixteen years before the treatise De dono perseverantiæ), “de voluntate sua quisque aut Antichristus, aut in Christo est. Aut in membris sumus, aut in humoribus malis. Qui se in melius commutat, in corpore membrum est: qui autem in malitia permanet, humor malus est: et quando exierit, relevabuntur qui premebantur.” We must take these words, 1 John 2:19 , in intimate connexion with the enunciation of this whole portion of the Epistle, ch. 1 John 1:5-7 . The object of this portion is, ch. 1 John 1:3 , that ye may have fellowship with us, in that we have fellowship with the Father and the Son. This aim penetrates all the warning and exhortation 1 John 2:18-28 . This fellowship depends on the walking in light, i. e. on knowledge of the truth as regards ourselves and God, and love to God and the brethren. He who departs from the truth, he who loves not God and the brethren, belongs not to this fellowship, and shews that he belongs not to it. If he had belonged to it, he would have held fast his walk in the light, as shewn by these indications. This is the human side, on which our passage regards the act and fact. There is also a divine side. They who attain eternal life are given by the Father to the Son, and no man can come to the Son except the Father draw him (John 6:37 ; John 6:44 ; John 6:65 ; Joh 17:6 ), and such are kept by God (ib. Joh 17:11 ); but also we read that they believe on the Son, receive the word of the Son, and keep themselves (John 6:40 ; John 17:6 f., John 1:12 , Jam 1:27 ). And so again on the other side, they who remain at last excluded from eternal life, are thus excluded not only by God’s decree, but by their own evil choice and will. The words cited above, John 6:65 , were spoken by our Lord with direct reference to the traitor Judas: but on the other hand St. John gives notices of the ethical development of Judas which leave no doubt that his depravity went hand in hand with God’s judgment on him. Judas was covetous: his heart was inclined to mammon; hence he understood not the love of Mary when she anointed Jesus with her precious ointment: he grudged his Lord this token of love: he could not abide with Christ, because he shut his heart through greed, through love of the world, against the love of Christ; for the knowledge of the Lord, faith in Him, fellowship with Him, are all summed up in Love. Thus we see that in the rejection, as in the acceptance of eternal life, the two factors, God’s will and man’s will, are to be regarded in their ethical connexion only. In order to that knowledge of God, which is eternal life, man must be  taught of God ( Joh 6:45 ): but man must also  learn of God. And the more St. John sets forth the essential nature of this knowledge of God and Jesus Christ as  ethical , the more does he recognize, in putting forward God’s will in the matter, man’s will also. Christ is the Saviour of the whole world, ch. 1 John 2:2 , 1 John 4:14 . But in the personal appropriation of this universal salvation, not all really take it to themselves, and many, who have taken it, fall away again, because they do not keep the grace given, do not abide in Christ, do not walk in the light. This last is by no means denied by St. John when he says “if they had been of us they would have remained with us.” The words set forth an ideal ( ἄν , not γε or a similar particle) similar to that in ch. 1 John 2:5 , 1 John 3:9 , 1 John 5:18 . As in no one of those places can the Apostle possibly mean, that a true believer, one really born of God, has perfect love to God and cannot sin (for what then would ch. 1Jn 2:1 mean?), so neither here can he mean that whoever once inwardly and truly belongs to the communion of believers cannot by any possibility fall from it. I have abridged Düsterd.’s remarks, and thereby, I fear, not increased their perspicuity. Those who are able (and I would hope, for the sake of English theology, that this number is daily increasing) should by all means give some days to the thorough study of them).
	 [33]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430