 5 .]  assertion of the other alternative , not merely as before, but, as usual, carried further and differently expressed: “oppositio cum accessione,” as Grot.):  but whosoever keepeth His word (synonymous with τὰς ἐντολὰς αὐτοῦ , considered as a whole: on the mode of expression, see above),  of a truth in him is the love of God perfected (why should this transition be made from knowledge to love? “Amor præsupponit cognitionem,” as Grot.: and is a further step in the same κοινωνία with God: not indeed that the former step is passed through and done with, but that true knowledge and love increase together, and the former is the measure of the latter, just as keeping God’s commandments is the test and measure of true knowledge of Him. And thus in the final and perfect ideal, the two are coincident: the perfect observation of His commandments is the perfection of love to Him. It is manifest, from what has been said, that  ἡ ἀγάπη τοῦ θεοῦ must be our love towards God, not His love towards us: τοῦ θεοῦ a gen. objective, not subjective. Some Commentators have held the other meaning: partly because τετελείωται seemed better to be interpreted thus, and partly from doctrinal motives, as in the case of Flacius and Calovius, to keep out the Romish folly of supererogation. But the explanation, though the words themselves admit it (see ch. 1Jn 4:9 ), is manifestly alien from the context. And of any foolish dreams of perfection or super-perfection there is no fear, if we understand the passage as intended by the Apostle, as setting forth the true ideal and perfection of knowledge and love to God, as measured by the perfect keeping of His word: which though none of us can fully reach, every true Christian has before him as his aim and final object. So that there is no need again to depart from the meaning of τετελείωται , as has been done by Beza (“itaque τελειοῦν hoc in loco non declarat perfecte aliquid præstare, sed mendacio et simulationi, inani denique speciei opponitur: ut hoc plane sit quod dicimus in vulgato sermone, mettre en exécution”)).  In this (in the fact of our progress towards this ideal state of perfection of obedience and therefore of love: thus assured that the germ of the state is in us and unfolding)  we know that we are in Him (this completes the logical period which began in 1 John 2:3 , by reasserting that verse, carrying however that assertion yet deeper, by substituting ἐν αὐτῷ ἐσμέν for ἐγνώκαμεν αὐτόν . This “being in Him” is in fact the Christian life in its central depth of κοινωνία with God and with one another: the spiritual truth corresponding to the physical one enunciated by St. Paul, Acts 17:28 , ἐν αὐτῷ ζῶμεν καὶ κινούμεθα καὶ ἐσμέν ).