 13 .]  I write to you, fathers, because ye know Him that was (cf. ὃ  ἦν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , χῆς , ch. 1Jn 1:1 )  from the beginning (i. e. in St. John’s usage of speech, Christ; see ch. 1Jn 1:1 and notes).  I write to you, young men,because ye have conquered the wicked one (the proper attribute of youth is, to carry on the active parts of life: if soldiers, to be engaged in all active service: that of age, to contemplate, and arrive at sound and matured knowledge. The latter have conquered as well, but the burden and heat of their struggle is past: “viribus fortibus et robustis tribuitur supra fortissimum et robustissimum victoria.” Carpzov. The  πονηρός is he in whom, in whose power, the whole world lieth, ch. 1 John 5:19 , John 12:31 ; John 14:30 ; John 16:11 ; the διάβολος , who deceives from the beginning, John 8:44 , ch. 1Jn 3:8 ; 1 John 3:10 ; 1 John 3:12 ; whose works Christ came into the world to destroy, ch. 1 John 3:8 . He is conquered once and for all, by those who have passed from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, to communion with the Father and the Son, ch. 1 John 5:18 . Whatever conflict remains for them afterwards, is with a baffled and conquered enemy: is a τηρεῖν αὐτοὺς ( ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ), ch. 1 John 5:18 , which τηρεῖν (see note there), owing to their whole life being led in communion with the Father and Son, is a τηρεῖσθαι , Joh 17:15 ).
	He now repeats (see above) the three classes, but with some variations and additions in his reasons for writing to each, and with the aor.  ἔγραψα instead of the present γράφω . In seeking a reason for this change of tense, we have a choice between several views of Commentators. These are rather complicated by the fact that many of them read γράφω in the fourth place, against almost all authority. Of those, some, as Calvin, have been fairly baffled by the two aorists following the four presents, and have imagined 1Jn 2:14 to be interpolated: “Quanquam fieri potest ut Joannes ipse sententiam de adolescentibus augendi causa secunde inseruerit (illic enim addit fortes esse, quod non prius dixerat), librarii autem temere numerum implere voluerint.” Of the rest, some (Storr, Lange, Baumg.-Crus., Schött.) think that the allusion is to St. John’s Gospel: others, as Michaelis, to a former epistle; by far the greater part however agree rightly that this Epistle must be meant by both: see Galatians 6:11 , Philemon 1:19 ; Philemon 1:21 ; our 1 John 2:21 ; 1 John 2:26 ; ch. 1 John 5:13 . Still, there is a wide difference in giving each tense a distinct reference. Bengel holds them to import much the same: “a  scribo transit ad  scripsi : non temere: scilicet verbo scribendi ex præsenti in præteritum transposito immisit commonitionem firmissimam:” and so Sander, and in the main Neander: “as John has said ‘I write to you,’ so now he takes up again and sums up that which he has written, saying, ‘I have written to you:’ q. d., it stands fast: I have nothing more to say: this you must regard as my permanent testimony.” And Paulus, comparing the formula “we decree and have decreed.” But as Huther remarks, this view presupposes the false rendering of ὅτι by “that.” Lücke, after Rickli, with much ingenuity tries to fix ἔγραψα on the preceding portion of the Epistle, keeping γράφω for the following. And in so doing, he fancies he sees a correspondence, in what has preceded and in what follows, with these addresses to different classes of hearers: e. g., in ch. 1 John 1:5-7 , and 1 John 2:15-17 , with ἀφέωνται αἱ ἁμ .: in 1Jn 1:8 to 1 John 2:2 , and 1 John 2:18-27 , with ὅτι ἐγνώκατε …: in 1 John 2:3-11 , and 1Jn 2:28 to 1 John 3:22 , with ὅτι νενικήκατε … But no such correspondence really subsists: and Lücke himself subsequently gave up this view: see note in Bertheau’s edn. of Lücke, p. 265. De Wette and Brückner, with whom Huther agrees, believe γράφω to refer to the immediate act of writing, going on at the moment: ἔγραψα , to what has preceded this point: so that the former refers more to the whole Epistle, the latter to the contents of what has gone before. Düsterdieck disapproves this, and, following Beza, refers both γράφω and ἔγραψα to the  whole Epistle : the former to the Apostle’s immediate act of writing, the latter to the readers’ act of reading when complete. In deciding between these two last views, we must bear in mind the epistolary use of the aor. ἔγραψα , according to which it refers, never, that I am aware, when thus used absolutely, to a previous portion of the Epistle, but always to the whole: which circumstance would seem to rule the meaning here, and to determine for Beza and Düsterdieck. And no objection lies against their view, as Huther urges, from the change of persons to be supplied (see above): the supply may just as well be thus made, understanding the reference both times to be to the Apostle himself: “I write ( γράφω ), now that I am writing:” “I wrote ( ἔγραψα ), when I wrote.”  I wrote to you, children (by παιδία all the readers are meant: see above),  because ye know the Father (the very word παιδία reminds of πατήρ : and the relation is close, between this and that which is said before, that their sins are forgiven for Christ’s name’s sake. They are received thus by adoption into God’s family, and He is become  their reconciled Father, as He is the Father of Him through whom they have received their adoption: and one of the first evidences of dawning intelligence in a child is the recognition of its father. But this knowledge of the Father does not precede, nay, it presupposes, communion with the Son: for none knoweth the Father but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal Him, Mat 11:27 ).  I wrote to you, fathers, because ye know Him that was from the beginning (verbatim as before: to shew perhaps in strong light the great truth of John 17:3 , that the whole sum of Christian ripeness and experience is, this knowledge of σὲ τὸν μόνον ἀληθινὸν θεόν , καὶ ὃν ἀπέστειλας Ἰησοῦν χριστόν . Bengel gives another reason: “Hoc comma ex versu præcedente, non additis pluribus verbis, repetit propositioni tractationem æque brevem subjungens, et modestia ad patres utens, quibus non opus erat multa scribi”).  I wrote to you, young men, because ye are strong (Ovid, Met. xv. 208, “Transit in æstatem post ver robustior annus, Fitque valens juvenis, neque enim robustior ætas Ulla.” Wetst.  ἰσχυρός , strong in fight: so in ref. Heb., Luke 11:21 [21] ),  and the word of God abideth in you (i. e. the whole announcement of the good news of the gospel in Christ has found entrance into your hearts and an abiding place there, and there dwells and works. The copulæ may be supplied as Grot., “Illud prius καί valet hic  quia , alterum καί positum est pro  ob id. … Fortes jam estis, non vestris viribus, verum ideo quod verbum illud Dei, profectum a Christo, est in vobis: inde vobis robur tantum obtigit, ut et mundi hujus principem vinceretis”),  and ye have oonquered the wicked one (see above).
	 [21] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .