 22 .]  Who is the liar (the question passes from the abstract τὸ ψεῦδος to the concrete ὁ ψεύστης . “Quis est illius mendacii reus” as Bengel. The Apostle proceeds to identify the utterer of the ψεῦδος of which he has just spoken. We have a similar question in ch. 1 John 5:4-5 ; where after describing the victory that overcometh the world, he rejoins τίς ἐστιν ὁ νικῶν κ . τ . λ . εἰ μὴ ὁ , as here. Some have neglected the article altogether; so Luther, and the E. V.; others have given it merely the force of pointing out as “insigne:” so Calv. (“nisi hoc censeatur mendacium, aliud nullum haberi posse”), Seb.-Schmidt; Socin. (“mendacium, quo nihil possit esse majus”), De Wette (‘  diese Irrlehre gilt dem Ap. statt aller, scheint ihm alle andern einzuschliessen ’). So also Lücke, and Huther. But there can be little doubt that the ὁ refers as above to the preceding ψεῦδος ),  but (“if not:” so εἰ μή in ref. and Luke 17:18 , Romans 11:15 , 1Co 2:11 , 2Co 2:2 )  he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ (lit. “  denieth (to the effect)  that Jesus is not the Christ .” “This  excepting εἰ μή ,” says Kühner, Gram. ii. p. 561, “is frequently found after τί (= τί ἄλλο ), and also after οὐδεὶς ἄλλος . Hom. hymn. Cer. 78, οὐδέ τις ἄλλος αἴτιος ἀθανάτοισιν , εἰ μὴ νεφεληγερέτα Ζεύς : Aristoph. Eq. 1106, μηδὲν ἄλλ ʼ, εἰ μὴ ἔσθιε : Xen. Œc. ix. 1, τί δέ , εἰ μὴ ὑπισχνεῖτό γε ἐπιμελήσεσθαι ; Cf. Cyr. i. 4. 13.” So the Greeks often, bringing outmore distinctly the negative proposition involved in the verb of negation, so Demosth. p. 871: ὡς δ ʼ οὐκ ἐκεῖνος ἐγεώργει τὴν γῆν , οὐκ ἠδύνατ ʼ ἀρνηθῆναι , or prohibition, so Herod. iii. 128, Δαρεῖος ἀπαγορεύει ὑμῖν μὴ δορυφορέειν Ὀροίτεα . See Kühner, Gram. ii. p. 410. On the meaning, see below)?  This (the ψεύστης just described; ὁ ἀρνούμενος , &c. below being appositional, and an additional consequence from his former denial)  is the antichrist (on the personal interpretation, see above, 1 John 2:18 . ὁ ἀντίχρ . is obviously here used not as predicating the one person in whom the character shall be finally and centrally realized, but as setting forth identity of character with him, and participation in the same development of the antichristian principle. Nor is this, as Huther characterizes it, a “  willkurliche Umdeutung und Erganzung ,” but something of the kind must be understood, whichever way antichrist be taken, collective or personal),  who denieth the Father and the Son (it is implied then, that the denying Jesus to be the Christ, is equivalent to denying the Father and the Son. And this the Apostle carefully asserts in the next verse).