 3 11 .]  This communion with God consists, secondly, in keeping His commandments, and especially the commandment to love one another . No new division of the Epistle begins, as in Sander: 1Jn 2:3 is closely joined to ch. 1 John 1:5-6 , which introduced the first conditional passage 1Jn 1:7 to 1 John 2:2 . The great test of communion with God, walking in the light, first requires that we confess our sins: next requires that we keep His commandments. So in the main Œc.: εἰρηκὼς ἄνω τοὺς εἰς τὸν κύριον πεπιστευκότας κοινωνίαν ἔχειν πρὸς αὐτόν , πιστωτικὰ τῆς κοινωνίας τῆς πρὸς αὐτὸν παρατίθεται .  And in this (  ἐν , of the conditional element: in this is placed, on this depends, our knowledge. In ch. 1 John 3:24 (see below), the ἐν τούτῳ is resumed by ἐκ τοῦ πνεύματος οὗ ἡμῖν ἔδωκεν )  we know (pres.: from time to time, from day to day)  that we have the knowledge of him (perf.: have acquired and retain that knowledge: and this ἐγνωκέναι is not, as some (Lange, Carpzov., Wahl) make it, the  love of God, as neither of course is it mere theoretical knowledge: but is that inner and living acquaintance which springs out of unity of heart and affection),  if (“St. John uses the formula ἐν τούτῳ γινώσκομεν first as referring the demonstrative pronoun back to what has gone before, as e. g. in our 1 John 2:5 , and in ch. 1 John 3:10 . If however the demonstrative pronoun in this or a like formula looks onward, and the token itself, with the circumstance of which it is a token, follows, he expresses this token variously and significantly, according to the various shades of meaning to be conveyed. Sometimes the token implied in the demonstrative follows in a separate sentence, as in ch. 1 John 4:2 ; sometimes the construction is slightly changed, and the sentence begun with ἐν τούτῳ is not regularly brought to a close, but continued in a new and correlative form: e. g. ch. 1 John 3:24 , where ἐν τούτῳ γινώσκ . is taken up by ἐκ τοῦ πν . And this way of expression is closely parallel to that where ὅτι completes the construction begun with ἐν τούτῳ . So ch. 1 John 3:16 ; 1Jn 3:19 ; 1 John 4:9-10 ; 1 John 4:13 . In these cases, the full objective reality of the token as a fact, is set forth. It is an undoubted fact that He has given us of His Spirit, that He has sent His Son: and from these facts our inference is secure to the other facts in question, that He abideth in us, &c. But in other passages, we find instead of this ὅτι , an ἵνα , as ch. 1 John 4:17 (but see not there: the case surely is not quite parallel, H. A.), or an ἐάν , as here, John 13:35 , or ὅταν , ch. 1 John 5:2 . This ἐάν , ὅταν , mark the token implied in ἐν τούτῳ as one not actually existent, an historical or objectively certain fact; but as a possible contingency, something hypothetically, and conditionally assumed: in other words as ideal.” Düsterdieck, pp. 172 f. And so here: the token, that we have the knowledge of Him, is present,  if , posito that)  we keep (pres., as a habit, from time to time,  ἐντολαί being necessarily prescriptions regarding circumstances as they arise)  His commandments (first as to the expression. St. John never uses the word νόμος for the rule of Christian obedience: this word is reserved for the Mosaic law, John 1:17 ; John 1:46 , and in all, fifteen times in the Gospel: but almost always ἐντολαί , sometimes λόγος θεοῦ or χριστοῦ , John 8:51 f., John 14:23 f., John 17:6 , our 1 John 2:5 . And as a verb he always uses τηρεῖν , very seldom ποιεῖν (only in the two controverted places, ch. 1 John 5:4 , Rev 22:14 v. r.: ch. 1Jn 1:6 , 1Jn 2:17 are not cases in point). τηρεῖν keeps its peculiar meaning of  watching , guarding as some precious thing, “observing to keep.” Next,  whose commandments? The older expositors for the most part refer αὐτόν , αὐτοῦ , αὐτῷ , 1 John 2:3-6 , to Christ: so Aug [15] , Episcop., Grot., Luther, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., Wolf, Lange, Bengel, Sander, Neander. Socinus inclines to this view, but doubtfully; Erasmus understands αὐτός 1 John 2:3-4 , of God, αὐτός and ἐκεῖνος 1 John 2:5-6 , of Christ. Most modern Commentators understand αὐτόν , αὐτοῦ , αὐτῷ throughout of God, and ἐκεῖνος of Christ. So Lücke, Baumg.-Crus., De Wette, Huther, Brückner, and in old times Bed [16] and Œc. That this latter is the right understanding of the terms, is supposed to be shewn by the substitution (?) in 1Jn 2:5 of τοῦ θεοῦ for αὐτοῦ , and its taking up again by ἐν αὐτῷ in 1 John 2:6 , followed by καθὼς ἐκεῖνος περιεπάτησεν . But of this I am by no means thoroughly persuaded: see note, 1Jn 2:6 ).
	 [15]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [16] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.