 7 11 .]  The commandment of Love . The context see below.  Beloved, I write not to you a new commandment, but an old commandment, which ye had from the beginning: the old commandment is the word which ye heard (on the right understanding of this verse, very much depends. The great question is, To what commandment does ἐντολή refer? Does it point forward to the commandment of brotherly love, in 1 John 2:9 , or back to that of walking as Christ walked, in 1Jn 2:6 ? One or other of these views has generally been taken decidedly, and exclusively of the other. The former view has been upheld by Aug [17] , Bed [18] , Œc., Thl., Luther, Calv., Grot., Wolf, Bengel, Knapp, Baumg.-Crus., De Wette, Neander, Sander, Düsterdieck, al.; the latter by Beza, Socinus, Seb.-Schmidt, Piscator, Episcopius, Flacius, Calov., Lücke, Fritzsche, Jackmann, al. Of these, some on both sides may fairly be dismissed, as maintaining preposterous meanings for some of the terms used. Thus Flacius, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., understand ἐντολή to be, not a  commandment , which from usage and from 1Jn 2:3 and ch. 1Jn 3:23 , 1 John 5:3 , it must be, but the whole “doctrina de Christo ejusque beneficiis,” including the forgiveness of sins, 1Jn 2:1-2 ; 1 John 2:12 . Then thus taking it, the epithets “old” and “new” become the O. T. prophecies of Christ, and their N. T. fulfilment. Thus on the other side some, e. g. Aug [19] , Bed [20] , Beza, Luther (2), Seb.-Schmidt, Wolf, al., understand “new” and “old” not of time, but in a tropical meaning, with reference to the old Jewish or heathen darkness and the new light of Christ: a view which cannot possibly be maintained in the face of so plain a token of time as is furnished by ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς and by the aor. εἴχετε and ἠκούσατε . These being so far set aside, the above classes of interpreters are again divided as to their understanding of the epithets “old” and “new.” Those who understand the ἐντολή 1 John 2:7-8 , of the command of love, mostly explain the oldness and newness of the difference between O. and N. T. revelation (so the Greeks, Grot., and Wolf), and some go on to understand the ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς of the original obscure and imperfect command to love one another in the O. T. which failed in the crowning particular of love towards enemies. Of these, the Greeks, holding not Jewish Christians alone, but Gentile also to be addressed, interpret παλαιὰ ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς and ἠκούσατε of the testimony of conscience to the law of love among the Gentiles: so Œc. and the Scholl. speak of ἡ κατὰ τὰς φυσικὰς ἐννοίας φιλικὴ διάθεσις . Wolf tries to distinguish the two by referring εἴχετε to the Jews, ἠκούσατε to the Gentiles. On the other hand, those who refer ἐντολή in 1 John 2:7-8 , to 1 John 2:6 , mostly understand the “old” and “new” of the different aspects in which the following the example of Christ would be regarded, within the limits of the N. T. period, since the readers had begun their Christian lives: so Socinus, Jackmann, Piscator, Episcopius, Lücke. The lastnamed reference of ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς to the beginning of the Christian life of the readers, and the corresponding explanation of the “oldness” of the commandment, is combined by De Wette and Neander only with their view of ἐντολή as the law of love. Düsterdieck, from whom the above particulars are mainly taken, finds fault with the exclusive reference maintained for the most part by the interpreters on both sides, and believes that a via media may be found more agreeable to the ethical habits of thought of the Apostle, and to the context of the passage. This context requires, 1) that we maintain a logical connexion between 1Jn 2:6 and 1 John 2:7 , as indicated by ὀφείλει and ἐντολή : 2) that we maintain the like logical connexion between 1Jn 2:8 and 1 John 2:9 , as indicated by the figure common to them both, of the darkness and the light. Now, of these, 1) is neglected by those who understand the ἐντολή barely as the law of love; 2) is neglected by those who understand it barely of following Christ’s example. The former make 1Jn 2:7 spring out of no contextual development: the latter treat similarly 1 John 2:9 . And the true view is to be found as thus indicated: the walk of Christ, which is our example, is essentially and completely summed up in one word, Love: and so the command, to walk as he walked, essentially and completely resolves itself into the law of brotherly love: for this last, taken in all its depth, includes not one special detail in a holy Christian life, but the whole of that life itself. Taking then this view, how are we to interpret in detail? What is  καινήν ? what is  παλαιάν ? what is  ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς ? For these clearly all hang together. If ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς is to signify ‘from the beginning of O. T. revelation,’ or ‘from the beginning of God’s testimony in man’s conscience,’ we seem to be doing violence to the simple mode of address which is prevalent in our Apostle’s style. The εἴχετε and ἠκούσατε , especially the latter, will hardly bear interpreting of the remote forefathers of the readers, as on this hypothesis they must, but require to be confined to the readers themselves, especially as they are aorists and not perfects. And if so, the meaning of ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς is fixed to be, from the beginning of the Christian lives, from the time when τὸν λόγον ἤκουσαν . Then as to καινήν , and παλαιάν , the explanation will be simple enough. The command to love one another cannot be said to be new, for it forms a part of the λόγος ὃν ἠκούσατε , nay, is the very sum and centre of that λόγος : but again, it may be said to be new, inasmuch as it ever assumes new freshness as the Christian life unfolds, as the old darkness is more and more cleared away and the true light shineth: in that light we see light; in the light of Him who maketh all things new.
	 [17]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [18] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [19]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [20] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	That the ἐντολή as such refers to the law of love, thus indeed connected with Christ’s example here, but still to the law of love and no other, is plain from the whole usage of the Apostle; compare especially 2 John 1:4-6 , where the very same train of thought occurs as here, the περιπατεῖν ἐν ἀληθείᾳ being = περιπατεῖν ἐν φωτί here, being followed up by καθὼς ἐντολὴν ἐλάβομεν παρὰ τοῦ πατρός , and that ἐντολή being characterized, as here, οὐχ ὡς ἐντολὴν γράφων σοι καινήν , ἀλλὰ ἣν εἴχομεν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , and finally being stated to be ἵνα ἀγαπῶμεν ἀλλήλους . Indeed the whole process of that passage from this point is most instructive as to our present one: καὶ αὕτη ἐστὶν ἡ ἀγάπη , ἵνα περιπατῶμεν κατὰ τὰς ἐντολὰς αὐτοῦ . αὕτη ἡ ἐντολή ἐστιν , καθὼς ἠκούσατε ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς ἵνα ἐν αὐτῇ περιπατῆτε : where the same complex of the whole Christian walk is included in the one idea of love, and ἀγάπη identified with walking according to His commandments. Again in ch. 1 John 3:11 , the same formula is used in speaking of the law of love αὕτη ἐστὶν ἡ ἀγγελία ἣνν ἠκούσατε ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , ἵνα ἀγαπῶμεν ἀλλήλους : cf. also ch. 1 John 4:21 , 1 John 5:3 , 1 John 3:22-24 ; again ch. 1 John 3:14 , 1 John 4:16 , John 13:35 ; ch. 1 John 5:1-2 , John 15:10 .
	To recapitulate: on the interpretation here adopted, which is also that of Düsterdieck and Huther, the ἐντολή is the command to walk as Christ walked, passing as the passage advances into the law of love. This ἐντολή is no καινή , but παλαιά , seeing that they had it ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , from the beginning of their faith, and it was in fact the sum of the λόγος which they ἤκουσαν ).