 28 .]  Conclusion of this part of the Epistle : forming also a transition to the next part: see below.  And now (by  καὶ νῦν , the preceding considerations are linked on to the exhortation regarding present practice which follows: see reff. On ἀλλὰ νῦν , νῦν δέ , νῦν οὖν see Düsterdieck’s note),  little children (the affectionate repetition of τεκνία binds this on to 1 John 2:18 , and to the ὁ δὲ ποιῶν τὸ θέλημα τοῦ θεοῦ  μένει εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα , 1Jn 2:17 ),  abide in Him (“repetitio est præcepti cum blanda appellatione, qua paternum erga eos amorem declaret,” Estius.  αὐτῷ , Christ: as before, 1 John 2:27 ; but here even more decidedly, pace Estii, see above: and against the Socinian interpreters):  in order that if He should be manifested (in case of His second coming taking place. The  ἐάν differs from ὅταν , in marking, not time but reality only. We may supply, “  in our time :” but it is better to leave it unsupplied),  we (observe that he changes to the communicative way of speaking. This was not a matter in which Apostle and converts, teacher and hearer, were separate: but one in which all had a share: viz. the Christian hope of standing before the Lord with joy at His coming. This is far the most likely reason, and not as Seb.-Schmidt, mere modesty, still less, as Sander, because the failure of any of his τεκνία at that day would be a detraction from his full apostolic reward: for the relation between shepherd and flock, minister and people, is not in question here)  may have confidence (  παῤῥησία , subjective: not  freedom of speech , but  confidence , see note on Hebrews 3:6 ; and the reff. Cf. also Suicer, sub voce),  and may not shrink with shame from Him (the ἀπ ʼ in ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , expresses the flying from His presence, which the shame in αἰσχυνθῶμεν would suggest: see reff. (Hammond renders, “turn with shame from Him.”) It is not equivalent to  coram , as many Commentators: nor to ὑπό , as Socinus: nor to both of these together, as Sander, who however quotes πορεύεσθε ἀπ ʼ ἐμοῦ , Matthew 25:41 ; nor can the words mean, as Erasmus thought, “ut illum non pudeat nostri.” “He who has not abode in the Lord ( ἐν αὐτῷ ), will flee from Him ( ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ ) with shame and confusion when He appears.” Düsterd.)  at His coming (Bengel remarks, “Epistolam igitur hanc prius scripsisse videtur quam apocalypsin, in qua demum adventus magis est dilatus.” On this, see Prolegomena).
	1Jn 2:29 to 1 John 5:5 .] THE SECOND GREAT DIVISION OF THE EPISTLE:  the doing of righteousness, the sign of new birth from God: the opposite, the sign of not being of God . This main subject, enunciated in 1 John 2:29 , is carried onward throughout, and more especially with reference to brotherly love, which is the great and obvious example of likeness to God, and its absence the most decisive proof of alienation from Him. The various subdivisions see, as the exegesis proceeds.
	1Jn 2:29 to 1 John 3:3 .] Connected with the principle enounced 1 John 2:29 , is its obvious  application to ourselves, as children of God . Hoping as we do to be entirely like Christ at His appearing, each one of us, in pursuance of this hope, is even now approximating to this perfect likeness by purifying himself even as He is pure.