 9, 10 .] We now come to the  enunciation of the law of brotherly love , and in a form resembling that used in ch. 1 John 1:8 ; 1 John 1:10 ; and in 1 John 2:4 f. First is asserted the incompatibility of living in hatred and walking in the light: then the identity of walking in love and walking in the light: then lastly as a contrast to the last ( ὁ ἀγαπῶν .… ὁ δὲ μισῶν ), the same fact with regard to hatred and the darkness, and the blinding effect on him who walks in it. The φῶς is as before, the light of Christ, now partially shining, but one day to be fully revealed: the σκοτία is the darkness of this present world, now passing away).  He that saith that he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in the darkness until now (Düsterd. has very properly protested against the softening down of μισεῖν into “minus diligere, posthabere, non colere,” &c. “Nothing,” he says, “can be more shallow and weak as compared with the ethics of the whole Scripture. All the truth, depth, and power of Christian ethics rests on the ‘aut … aut,’ so distinctly insisted on by St. John. On the one side is God, on the other the world: here is life, there is death (ch. 1Jn 3:14 ): here, love; there, hate, i. e. murder (ch. 1 John 3:14 ff.), there is no medium. In the space between, is nothing. Life may as yet be merely elementary and fragmentary. Love may be as yet weak and poor, but still, life in God and its necessary demonstration in love is present really and truly, and the word of our Lord is true, ‘He that is not against me is with me,’ Luke 9:50 ; and on the other side, the life according to the flesh, the attachment to the world, and the necessary action of this selfishness by means of hatred, may be much hidden, may be craftily covered and with splendid outer surface; but in the secret depth of the man, there where spring the real fountains of his moral life, is not God but the world; the man is yet in death, and can consequently love nothing but himself and must hate his brother: and then that other word of the Lord is true, ‘He that is not for me is against me,’ Luke 11:23 . For a man can only be either for or against Christ, and consequently can only have either love or hate towards his brother.” Bengel says well, on 1 John 2:11 , “oppositio immediata: ubi non est amor, odium est: cor enim non est vacuum.”
	It has been questioned, who is meant by  τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ . It seems plain that the expression here is not = τὸν πλησίον αὐτοῦ , seeing that St. John is writing to Christians, and treating of their κοινωνία μετ ʼ ἀλλήλων . On the other hand, if we are to restrict the meaning, as is done by most modern Commentators, to Christian brotherhood, it is plain that we cannot understand strictly τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ in 1Jn 2:9 ; 1 John 2:11 , seeing that the man there spoken of is in reality not a Christian at all. So that either we must enlarge the sense of ἀδελφός , or suppose some impropriety of language in the use of the term in these verses, q. d. him who ought to be loved by him as a Christian brother, supposing himself to be really a Christian. This difficulty does not seem to have struck any of the Commentators: but it is one which certainly will not allow us to confine the term to its utmost strictness of meaning.
	 ἕως ἄρτι ,  up to this moment : notwithstanding any apparent change which may have taken place in him when he passed into the ranks of nominal Christians).