 12 14 .]  Threefold address to the readers, accompanied by a threefold reason for writing to them; all repeated by way of parallelism, with some variations and enlargements . On the connexion and explanation of these verses, it may be observed, 1) that we have three classes of readers, denoted the first time by τεκνία , πατέρες , νεανίσκοι , and the second time by παιδία , πατέρες , νεανίσκοι . 2) that all three are addressed the first time in the present γράφω , the second time in the aorist ἔγραψα . 3) that while to the πατέρες and νεανίσκοι the same words are each time used (to the latter with an addition the second time), the τεκνία and παιδία are differently addressed.
	The first question arising is, what do these three classes import, and how are they to be distributed among the readers? It is obvious that the chief difficulty here is with τεκνία and παιδία . The former word is used by our Apostle once with μου , 1 John 2:1 , and six times without μου ; 1 John 2:28 , ch. 1 John 3:7 ; 1Jn 3:18 , 1 John 4:4 , 1 John 5:21 ; but always as importing the whole of his readers; and once it is reported by him as used by our Lord, also in a general address to all His disciples, John 13:33 . παιδία is used by him similarly in our 1 John 2:18 , and reported by him as used by our Lord in a general address, John 21:5 . These facts make it very probable that both the words are here used as general designations of all the readers, and not as a designation of any particular class among them. And this is made more probable, by the fact that if τεκνία and παιδία did point out the children among them, properly or spiritually so called, the rank of classes would be different from that which would occur to any writer, viz. neither according to ascending age nor to descending, but children, fathers, young men. We seem then to have made it highly probable that τεκνία and παιδία address all the readers alike. Now if we lay any stress on the third circumstance above mentioned, that τεκνία and παιδία are differently addressed, and not so πατέρες and νεανίσκοι , and endeavour therefrom to deduce any distinction between τεκνία and παιδία in the age or qualities expressed by them, I conceive that we shall establish nothing satisfactory. If a reason for this variation of address is to be discovered, it must be sought in the parallelism of the passage. With these preliminary remarks, we come to the details.  I write to you, little children (see above),  because (Socinus, Seb.-Schmidt, Schött., Bengel, Paulus, Sander, Neander, render ὅτι “  that .” But the meaning seems determined for us by 1 John 2:21 , where it is quite impossible thus to render it: although even there Bengel tries to be consistent. It is manifest that we must keep the same rendering throughout. The particle then gives the reasons why he writes (  what , see below on the first ἔγραψα ) to each class among them)  your sins have been (perf.: see note on Mat 9:2 )  forgiven you for the sake of His (Christ’s)  name ( Ἰησοῦς χριστός , the Saviour, the anointed one, bringing to mind all the work wrought out by Him for us, and all the acceptance of that work by the Father: so that it may be well said that on account of, for the sake of, that Name which the Father hath given Him, which is above every name, our sins are forgiven).