 2 .]  and He (“idemque ille,” as Lücke.  καί is merely the copula, not =  quia , as Corn.-a-lap.; nor γάρ , as Syr. (not in Etheridge), Beza; it serves to bind the fundamental general proposition which follows, to the resulting particular one which has preceded)  is a propitiation (“the abstract verbal substantive in - μος betokens the intransitive reference of the verb,” see Kühner’s Gr. Gr. vol. i. § 378. So that  ἱλασμός is not, as Grot., in his notes, = ἱλαστής , but is abstract, as ἁγιασμός applied to Christ 1 Corinthians 1:30 , ἁμαρτία 2 Corinthians 5:21 . Düsterdieck here has given a long and able exposition of the word and idea, in refutation of Socinus, and of Grotius’s  notes . Grot. himself, being suspected of Socinianism, wrote his “Defensio fidei catholicæ de satisfactione Christi adversus Faustum Socinum,” in which, ch. 7 10, he gives a full and satisfactory explanation “de placatione et reconciliatione, de redemptione, de expiatione nostra per Christi mortem facta.” Socinus had maintained that ἱλάσκεσθαι does not mean “ex irato mitem reddere,” but merely “  declarare quod pertinet ad pœnas peccatorum, ejus animum cujus est eas sumere atque repetere, mitem atque pacatum:  declarare , fore ut peccata meritas pœnas non luant.” But against this Grot. shews that ἱλάσκεσθαι , as εἰρηνοποιεῖν and καταλλάσσειν , imports ‘placare,’ i. e. ‘iram avertere;’ and Christ has, as our ἱλασμός or ἱλαστήριον , i. e. as a sin-offering, reconciled God and us by nothing else but by His voluntary death as a sacrifice: has by this averted God’s wrath from us. According to the constant usage of Scripture, God is in so far ἵλεως in regard to the sins of men, as He suffers His ἔλεος to prevail instead of His ὀργή . See LXX in 2 Chronicles 6:25 ; 2 Chronicles 6:27 , Jeremiah 38:0 (31) 34, 43 (36) 3, Numbers 14:18 ff. And the Greek usage entirely agrees; see Hom. Il α . 147, ὄφρ ʼ ἡμῖν ἑκάεργον ἱλάσσεαι , and Alberti’s note on Hesych. s. v. ἱλάσκεσθαι . Hesych. gives the sense of ἱλάσκεσθαι , ἐξιλεοῦσθαι , and of ἱλασμός , εὐμένεια , συγχώρησις , διαλλαγή , πραότης )  for (  περί , as so often in similar connexions, cf. Hebrews 10:6 ; Hebrews 10:8 , and reff., concerning, i. e. in behalf of; not so strong as ὑπέρ , which  fixes the latter meaning, excluding the wider one)  our sins: yet not for ours only, but also for the whole world (in the latter clause there is an ellipsis very common in ordinary speech in every language: “  for the whole world ” = “for the sins of the whole world.” See besides reff., Revelation 13:11 , 2 Peter 1:1 ; and Winer, edn. 6, § 66. 2 f. “Quam late patet peccatum, tam late propitiatio,” Bengel. But this has been misunderstood or evaded by many interpreters. Cyril and Œc. (alt.) explain  ἡμετέρων to refer to the Jews,  ολου τοῦ κόσμου to the Gentiles. And many others, taking the former in its true sense, yet limit the latter, not being able to take in the true doctrine of universal redemption. So Bed [14] , “non pro illis solum propitiatio est Christus quibus tunc in carne viventibus scribebat Joannes, sed etiam pro omni Ecclesia quæ per totam mundi latitudinem diffusa est, (a) primo nimirum electo usque ad ultimum qui in fine mundi nasciturus est porrecta … Pro totius ergo mundi peccatis interpellat Dominus, quia per totum mundum est Ecclesia, quam suo sanguine comparavit.” (This latter part is an evident reference to Augustine; but it is remarkable that on referring to Augustine we find “Ecce habes Ecclesiam per totum mundum;” but he ends, “… sed et totius mundi, quem suo sanguine comparavit.”) Similarly Calvin: “neque enim aliud fuit consilium Johannis, quam toti Ecclesiæ commune facere hoc bonum. Ergo sub  omnibus , reprobos non comprehendit: sed eos designat qui simul credituri erant, et qui per varias mundi plagas dispersi erant.” But this unworthy and evasive view is opposed by the whole mass of evangelical expositors.
	 [14] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	The reason of the insertion of the particular here, is well given by Luther: “It is a patent fact that thou too art a part of the whole world: so that thine heart cannot deceive itself and think, The Lord died for Peter and Paul, but not for me”).