 23 .]  Every one that denieth the Son, neither hath he the Father (the  οὐδέ is exclusive and climacteric; not only hath he denied the Son, but he cannot hold, possess the Father):  he that confesseth the Son hath also the Father . As nearly the whole of this Epistle, so especially such an assertion as this, formed a battle-field for the old rationalists. Some of the early Commentators and Fathers imagining that  Jewish error was indicated by the denying that Jesus is the Christ, the idea has been again taken up by Semler, al., and pressed in the anti-trinitarian interest. Grot., Socinus, Episcopius, all evade the Apostle’s words by inadequate or far-fetched interpretations, understanding the expressions in this verse, of not obeying the teaching, not following the example, &c. of the Son, and by consequence of the Father. But the deeper and truer meaning of the Apostle’s words has been recognized by all the better Commentators, with some variations from one another. While some, as Beza, Calov., Seb.-Schmidt, mark perhaps too precisely the doctrinal character of the words, others, as Lücke and De Wette, make their force consist too much in an ideal and economical relation between the divine Persons. Still all are agreed, that that which is spoken of is the revelation of the Father by the Son only, and that he who rejects this in its fulness rejects all that can be known of the real essence and nature of the Father Himself; “nempe quia Deus se totum nobis in Christo fruendum dedit,” as Calvin. “The antichrists denied that Jesus, the definite Person whom the Apostles had seen, heard, and handled, is the Christ. In whatever sense this denial is to be taken, the Apostle speaks merely of the fact, as known to the readers; at all events there is involved in it a denial of the Son of God; because it is only as the incarnate Son of God (ch. 1Jn 4:2 ), that Jesus is the Christ. And in the denial of the Son is involved necessarily the denial of the Father, since the Father cannot be known without the Son, and the Father cannot be perceived, believed on, loved, by any man, without the Son, or otherwise than through the Son, i. e. the Son manifested in the flesh, the Christ, which is, Jesus. So that in St. John’s development of the argument there are three essentially connected points: denial of the Christ, of the Son, of the Father. The middle link of the chain, the denial of the Son of God, shews how the denial of the Father is of necessity involved in the denial of Christ. And the cogency of this proof is made yet more stringent by another equally unavoidable process of argument. The antichristian false doctrine consists mainly in a negation, in the denying of the fundamental Christian truth, that Jesus is the Christ. But in this is involved the denial of the essence of the Son as well as of the Father, and again in this denial is involved the losing, the virtual  not having of the Son and of the Father. In the sense of St. John, we may say, taking the first and last steps of his argument and leaving out the intervening ones:  He who denieth that Jesus is the Christ, hath not the Father . And this necessary connexion between denying and not having, is perfectly clear, the moment we understand the ethical character, the living realism, of St. John’s way of regarding the subject. As ( 1Jn 2:23 ) we cannot separate the knowledge and confession of the Christ, the Son, the Father, from the  having , the real possession of, the practical fellowship with, the actual remaining in the Son and the Father, so conversely, together with the denial is necessarily given the  not-having ; together with the loss of the truth of the knowledge, the loss of the life which consists in that knowledge ( Joh 17:3 ). In such a connexion, the  confession of the truth is as essential on the one side, as the  denial on the other. Each is the necessary manifestation of the belief or unbelief hidden in the heart. And this ὁμολογεῖν is not to be understood of the ‘confessio cordis, vocis, et operis’ (Bede), but only as ch. 1 John 1:9 , of the confession of the month ( στόματι ὁμολογεῖται , Romans 10:10 , see Joh 12:42 ). It is parallel with φέρειν διδαχήν , 2Jn 1:7 ; 2 John 1:10 ; and indicates the definite utterance of the doctrine which was made known by the apostolic preaching, 1 John 2:24 .” Düsterdieck.