 20, 21 .] The Apostle puts them in mind, in an apologetic form, of the truth which they as Christians possessed, and the very possession of which, not the contrary, was his reason for thus writing to them. This reminiscence carries at the same time with it the force of an exhortation, as so many of the ideal statements on Christian perfection in our Epistle. What they  have in the ideal depth of their Christian life, that they ought to have in living and working reality.  And (hardly as Lücke, logically adversative to what preceded: so De Wette (  aber ), and many others. Huther ascribes this interpretation virtually to Düsterdieck, but wrongly: for the latter keeps  καί in its simple copulative meaning, and only asserts that what adversative meaning there is consists in the  sense , not in the outward expression. “John,” he says, “denotes only the passage to a new particular, without distinctly marking its adversative relation to the last”)  ye (expressed, as emphatic: see above)  have an anointing (  χρῖσμα is properly the oil or ointment with which the anointing takes place, not the act itself of anointing. For this we have in English no word adequate to the necessity of the passage: “unguent” is the nearest approach, but is still inadequate. It is certain that in later Greek there arose a considerable confusion between verbal nouns in - μα and their cognates in - σις . Thus in Exodus 29:0 , the ἔλαιον τοῦ χρίσματος , 1 John 2:7 , becomes the ἔλαιον τῆς χρίσεως , in 1 John 2:21 . On the meaning, see below)  from the Holy One (viz. from Christ, the δίκαιος of our 1 John 2:1 , the ἁγνός of ch. 1 John 3:3 , the ἅγιος of Acts 3:14 , and ἅγιος τοῦ θεοῦ of John 6:69 ; cf. also Revelation 3:18 , where the Laodicean church is counselled to buy of  Christ κολλύριον ἐγχρῖσαι τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς σου , ἵνα βλέπῃς . This is agreed to by almost all Commentators: even Socinus says that the Apostle “de Deo simul et Christo loqui, non secus ac si ambo una tantum persona essent:” and Schlichting concedes that the words  may be understood of Christ),  and know all things (the full and perfect knowledge of Christian truth is the ideal completion of those who have this anointing. This of course must not be understood as actually predicated of these readers: but the expression explains itself as referring to all things needful for right action in the matter under consideration: q. d. πάντα ταῦτα . So most Commentators. “Quod autem omnia dicit novisse, non universaliter capi, sed ad præsentis loci circumstantiam restringi debet,” Calv. See note on John 16:13 ; cf. also 1 Corinthians 1:5 ; 1 Corinthians 8:1 ; Ephesians 1:18 ; Colossians 2:2 . Some understand, all things necessary to Christian life and godliness: so Œc., Wolf, Bengel, Neander: “quæ ut homines a Spiritu Sancto uncti doctique tum ad salutem, tum ad cavendos illos seductorum et antichristorum errores scire debetis,” Wolf. The alternative reading πάντες would mean “  ye all know it :” a sense which hardly seems to be applicable.
	But now the question recurs, What is this χρῖσμα , and what leads the Apostle to use this peculiar expression here? The reply to the latter question is probably, as Bengel, “Alludit appellatio  chrismatis ad antichristi nomen, ex opposito.” The Apostle sets his readers, as χριστούς , anointed of God, over against the ἀντίχριστοι . Then as to the nature of the χρῖσμα , we can hardly fail to be right in interpreting it of the  Holy Ghost . For “Christ received the Holy Ghost without measure ( Joh 3:34 ): on Him the Holy Ghost abode (ib. Joh 1:33 ): God ἔχρισεν αὐτὸν πνεύματι ἁγίῳ ( Act 10:38 ). Christ baptizeth with the Holy Ghost ( Joh 1:33 ): He sends the Holy Ghost, who takes of His and shews it to believers (John 15:26 ; John 16:14 , Act 2:33 ). And seeing that the Son hath all which the Father hath, the Father is said to send forth the Spirit of His Son into the hearts of His children (Galatians 4:6 ; cf. Ephesians 3:16 , Philippians 1:19 , 2 Corinthians 3:17 ff.), and this, at the prayer, in the name, through the mediation, of the Son (John 14:16 ; John 16:7 f.): the Father anoints believers by giving them His Spirit (2 Corinthians 1:21 f.), as He has anointed the Son with the Holy Ghost. And hence the Spirit, which we have received, is the token that we are in the Father (ch. 1Jn 3:24 ), and in the Son ( 1Jn 2:27 ), that we are children of God (Romans 8:14 ff., Gal 4:6 ). The Holy Ghost teaches the faithful the truth and keeps them in it: that truth, in the knowledge of which they have eternal life, having thereby the Father and the Son.” Düsterdieck, p. 354 f. This anointing, by virtue of which they are Christ’s and the Father’s, and without which a man is none of Christ’s (Romans 8:14 ; Rom 8:9 ), in respect of which they are χριστοί , the ἀντίχριστοι attack in its very root, and would rob them of, thereby severing them from the Son and from the Father: from light and truth and life. And this very χρῖσμα is the means and weapon whereby  they must be detected and resisted).