 1 .]  My little children (see reff.: the diminutive expresses tender affection: perhaps also is used in reference to his age and long standing as a father in Christ. Compare the beautiful legend in Eus. H. E. iii. 23, where St. John calls back the young man to him with the words τί με φεύγεις , τέκνον , τὸν σαυτοῦ πατέρα ;)  these things I write unto you, that ye may sin not (  at all ) (this exclusive meaning is given by the aor. implying the absence not only of the habit, but of any single acts, of sin.  ταῦτα γράφω , not as Bengel,  that which follows ; nor, as Grot., both the preceding and the following: but as most Commentators, the preceding only, viz. the concluding 1Jn 2:8-10 of the former chapter, not in their details merely, but as Düsterd., “  in seiner lebendigen Harmonie .” The object of writing that passage was, to bring about in them the forsaking of sin. The very announcement there made, that if we confess our sins He in His faithfulness and righteousness will  cleanse us from all sin , sufficiently substantiates what the Apostle here says, without, with Aug [13] , al. (see above), bringing out too strongly the contemplation of a supposed misunderstanding on the part of the readers. To do this is to miss the deeper connexion in which these words stand to the great whole in its harmony, and to give instead only an apparent and superficial one. The reference of this exhortation to the unconverted among them, and rendering of ἵνα μὴ ἁμάρτητε , “ne maneatis in peccato,” maintained by Socinus and his followers, need only be mentioned to be refuted. The aor. alone, ἁμάρτητε , may serve to shew its utter untenableness).  And if any man have sinned (aor., have committed an act of sin: still speaking of those spots of sin which owing to the infirmity of the flesh remain even in those who are walking in the light. By this ἐάν τις ἁμ ., there is not, as Benson objects to this interpretation, any doubt expressed that all do occasionally sin, but the hypothesis is made, as ever by this formula, purely and generally. The resumption of the first person immediately, makes it evident that the hypothesis is in fact realized in us all),  we have an Advocate with (here the sense of  πρός , as a prep. of reference, is more brought out than when it is joined with a merely essential verb, as in John 1:1 , and our ch. 1Jn 1:2 )  the Father, Jesus Christ (the principal word requiring elucidation here is  παράκλητον . There are two classes of interpretations of it, which, as already remarked (on Joh 14:16 ), by no means exclude one another. Of these, that one which may be summed up under the meaning “COMFORTER,” has already been treated, on John, l.  c. With the other we have now to deal. ADVOCATE,  advocatus , παράκλητος , ‘causæ patronus,’ is the commoner sense of the word, answering as it does more closely to its etymology. It is found in Demosth. (p. 343. 10) and the orators: and occurs frequently in Philo in the same peculiar reference as here: e. g. in Flacc. 3, vol. ii. p. 519, where Macro is called the παράκλητος of Caius with Tiberius: de Jos. 40, p. 75: and most notably for our present place, de vita Mos. iii. 14, p. 155, ἀναγκαῖον γὰρ ἦν τὸν ἱερώμενον τῷ τοῦ κόσμου πατρί ,  παρακλήτῳ χρῆσθαι τελειοτάτῳ τὴν ἀρετὴν υἱῷ πρός τε ἀμνηστίαν ἁμαρτημάτων καὶ χορηγίαν ἀφθονωτάτων ἀγαθῶν . In patristic literature, Düsterd. cites the Epistle of the Churches of Lyons and Vienne (Eus. H. E. 1Jn 2:1 ), where a young Christian, named Vettius Epagathus, ἠξίου καὶ αὐτὸς ἀκουσθῆναι ἀπολογούμενος ὑπὲρ τῶν ἀδελφῶν , … ἀνελήφθη καὶ αὐτὸς εἰς τὸν κλῆρον τῶν μαρτύρων ,  παράκλητος χριστιανῶν χρηματίσας , ἔχων δὲ τὸν παράκλητον ἐν ἑαυτῷ : where Ruffinus’s version, “habens in se advocatum pro nobis Jesum,” is certainly not right; τὸν παράκλητον meaning the Holy Spirit. Cyril Alex. in the Acts of the Council of Ephesus, p. 164 (Suicer), says,  παράκλητος καὶ ἱλαστήριον ὁ υἱὸς ὠνόμασται · καθίστησι γὰρ τοῖς ἐπὶ γῆς εὐμενῆ τὸν πατέρα , καὶ παντὸς ἡμῖν εὑρίσκεται πρόξενος ἀγαθοῦ . Augustine gives the sense thus, in words following those above cited: “Ille est ergo advocatus: da operam tu ne pecces: si de infirmitate vitæ subrepserit peccatum, continuo vide, continuo displiceat, continuo damna; et cum damnaveris, securus ad judicem venies. Ibi habes advocatum: noli timere ne perdas caussam confessionis tuæ. Si enim aliquando in hac vita committit se homo disertæ linguæ et non perit: committis te verbo, et periturus es?” There is no discrepancy between this passage, where the Son is our παράκλητος , and John 14:16 , where the Holy Spirit is called by the same name: rather is there the closest accordance, seeing that there our Lord says He will pray the Father and He will send us  ἄλλον παράκλητον : Himself, the Son of God, being thus asserted to hold this office in the first place, and the Holy Spirit to be His Substitute in His absence. See on the definite idea of the detail of the advocacy of the Son of God, Huther’s important note here) (  being )  righteous (the adj.  δίκαιον , without the art., carries a ratiocinative force; “in that He is righteous,” as a contrast to ἐάν τις ἀμάρτῃ . In a strict rendering, this force of the anarthrous adj. should be kept, and pointed out in exegesis: in an English version, it is hardly possible to render it otherwise than our translators have done, “the righteous,” though it is not τὸν δίκαιον . The definite art. in English calls attention at once to the predicate, as does the  omission of the definite art . in Greek: and thus the purpose of the writer is answered. And this is often the case: a vernacular version, in order to bring out in English the same idea which is expressed by the Greek, is constrained to adopt a phrase which is not in the Greek, and which sometimes looks as if the translators had made a blunder in grammar. It would be well if this were always carefully kept in mind by those who would revise our authorized version. No supposed by-sense of  δίκαιος , bonus, lenis (Grot.), or = δικαιῶν (see Wolf), must (see above on ch. 1Jn 1:9 ) be for a moment thought of. “The righteousness of Christ stands on our side: for God’s righteousness is, in Jesus Christ, ours.” Luther):  [13]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430