 24, 25 .]  Exhortation to perseverance in the truth delivered to them, and statement of the promise connected with it : connected with the foregoing by the ὁμολογεῖν , as involving an ἀκοῦσαι : see the concluding sentence of Düsterd. above.
	 Ye (the  ὑμεῖς stands alone, serving to mark more distinctly the change of person. We have a similar anacoluthon in 1 John 2:27 . Kühner, Gram. ii. p. 156, says: “The word which exceeds in significance the other members of the sentence, is sometimes with rhetorical emphasis not only put at the beginning of the sentence, but also expressed in a form calculated to shew that it is the subject underlying the whole sentence, although the grammatical structure would require another and dependent case. So Plato, Cratyl. p. 403, A, ὁ δὲ Ἅιδης , οἱ πολλοὶ μέν μοι δοκοῦσιν ἀπολαμβάνειν τὸ ἀειδὲς προσευρῆσθαι τῷ ὀνόματι τούτῳ : and ib. p. 404, Περσέφαττα δέ , πολλοὶ μὲν καὶ τοῦτο φοβοῦνται τὸ ὄνομα .” Some however explain the position of ὑμεῖς here by a trajection: so Bengel, “antitheton est in pronomine, ideo adhibetur trajectio;” and so Beza, Socinus, and even De Wette. But the other is more probable),  let that which ye heard from the beginning, abide in you (i. e. not merely as Thl., φυλάττετε παρ ʼ ἑαυτοῖς , but as in ch. 1 John 3:9 , σπέρμα αὐτοῦ ἐν αὐτῷ μένει , the truth respecting the Father and the Son once heard is regarded as a seed, dropt in and abiding in the man.  ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς , necessarily bound here to the subjects of ἠκούσατε , just as it is necessarily bound in ch. 1 John 1:1 , to the subject of ἦν , as Beza, “Ex quo institui cœpistis in primis christianæ religionis rudimentis”).  If that which ye heard from the beginning abide (aor. in the sense of the futurus exactus, “shall have abode.” The result in the apodosis will be brought about by the accumulative accomplishment of the supposition)  in you, ye also (on your part;  vicissim , as Bengel. If it abide in you, ye too shall abide.…)  shall abide in the Son and in the Father (here again the rationalizing Commentators, Socinus, Grotius, Hammond, Semler, have endeavoured to explain away the close personal relation and immanence in God expressed by the Apostle’s words: “ita cum Patre et Filio conjunctum esse, ut bonorum ab utroque proficiscentium quis sit particeps,” Socinus, and similarly Semler: “summo eorum favore et amicitia fruemini,” Grot., Hamm. But here as every where else, they entirely miss the sense. He in whom abides the message of life in Christ which he has heard, not only has received the tidings of that life, but is transformed into the likeness of Him whose seed he has taken into him: is become a new creation: and the element in which and by which he lives and acts is even He in whom and by whom this new lite comes, even Christ the Son of God. And thus living in the Son, he lives in the Father also: for Christ the Son of God is the manifestation and effulgence of the Father, himself abiding ever in the Father, as His people abide in Him. See the same truth declared John 6:56 ; John 15:1 ff; John 17:23 ( Eph 3:17 ; 1 Corinthians 3:16 ; 1Co 6:17 )).  And (  καί is the simple copula: not put αἰτιολογικῶς , as Œc., Thl.)  the promise (the preceding  μενεῖτε naturally carried the mind onwards into the future. The result of that abiding will be the fulfilment, not only in partial present possession but in complete future accomplishment, of Christ’s promise to us. This taking up again and explaining of something expressed (see ch. 1 John 3:23 , 1Jn 5:11 ) or implied (see ch. 1Jn 1:5 , 1 John 4:21 , 1Jn 5:14 ) before, is often found in our Apostle’s style)  which He Himself (Christ; cf. ὃ ἀκηκόαμεν περὶ τοῦ λόγου τῆς ζωῆς , ch. 1 John 1:1 ; cf. αὐτῷ , 1 John 2:8 ; αὐτοῦ , 1 John 2:27 ; αὐτῷ , 1Jn 2:28 )  promised to us (in many passages of the Gospel: e. g., John 3:15 ; John 4:14 ; John 6:40 ; John 6:47 ; John 6:57 ; John 11:25-26 ; Joh 17:2-3 )  is this , (even)  eternal life (accus. instead of nom., by a common attraction of the subject of the sentence into the case of the relative clause: “urbem quam statuo vestra est.” The fact of ζωὴν αἰώνιον being put in logical apposition with ἐπαγγελία must not make us suppose, that ἐπαγγελία means the  thing promised . The aor. ἐπηγγείλατο plainly enough shews that ἐπαγγ . is to be taken in its usual sense of a spoken promise. Then, when the purport of this promise comes to be explained, it is not “that we should inherit eternal life,” but, instead, the  subject of the spoken promise is expressed, as very commonly in ordinary discourse. “He promised me such or such a price” is a case in point).