 16 .]  Gives a reason for the assertion in 1 John 2:15 ; viz. the entire separation from one another of the world and God. In order to understand clearly the following, it is necessary to define strictly the things mentioned, and to lay down explicitly the apposition between πᾶν τὸ ἐν τῷ κ ., and the three particulars which follow as included in that category. By some Commentators this has been altogether passed over: by others very variously done. I apprehend it can only be rightly done by bearing in mind what was said before, that, as the world is summed up in man, both those objective material things which are properly τὰ ἐν τῷ κ ., and those inward subjectivities which are in man and grounded on his cosmic state, are regarded as being ἐν τῷ κ ., and these pass into, and are almost interchanged with, one another. Now here, the three things spoken of as examples of τὰ ἐν τῷ κ ., are all purely subjective, ἐπιθυμία , ἐπιθυμία , ἀλαζονεία . But they are subjectivities having their ground in the objectivities of the ungodly world: the first ἐπιθυμία springs out of (see below) the σάρξ , the human nature unrenewed by God: the second resides in that sense which takes note of outward things and so is inflamed by them; and the ἀλαζονεία is that belonging to ὁ βίος , the manner of life of worldly men among one another, whereby pride as to display and pomp is cherished. Now each one of these three is included in, and includes in itself, love to the world: and he that loves the world falls into, walks after, becomes part of, these lusts, and this ἀλαζονεία , which is not of the Father but of the world. Loving the things of the world, he becomes  conformed to the world, and following the lusts and pride which are in the world, he himself becomes one of the things in the world.  Because every thing that is in the world , (namely, or for instance)  the lust of the flesh (  τῆς σαρκός is not, as made by so many Commentators, an objective gen., so that the words should mean, “lust after the flesh,” i. e. impure desire: this they include, but far more. The gen. is subjective, the flesh being that wherein the lust dwells, as in reff.: and in ἐπιθ . τῶν καρδιῶν , Romans 1:24 ; cf. Proverbs 21:26 , Sir 5:2 ; Sir 18:30 , τοῦ σώματος , Romans 6:12 , τῶν ἀνθρώπων , 1 Peter 4:2 ; cf. 2 Peter 3:3 , Jude 1:16 ; Jude 1:18 , and cf. also such expressions as ἐπιθυμίαι κοσμικαί , Titus 2:12 , and σαρκικαί , 1 Peter 2:11 . The gen. after ἐπιθυμία is never, either in LXX or N. T., objective. Cf. some passages in which it occurs in other than the subjective sense, but never of the object desired: Ephesians 4:22 , 2 Peter 2:10 . In Philippians 1:23 , only Origen reads after ἐπιθυμίαν ἔχων ,  τοῦ ἀναλῦσαι instead of  εἰς τὸ ἀν .),  and the lust of the eyes (subjective gen. as before: the lust which the eye begets by seeing. In the apocryphal Testament of the twelve patriarchs (Fabricius, cod. Pseudepigr. Vet. Test. i. p. 522), among the seven πνεύματα τῆς πλάνης is enumerated the πνεῦμα ὁράσεως , μεθ ʼ ἧς γίνεται ἐπιθυμία . Sander, whose commentary, otherwise useful, is disfigured throughout by an ill-natured spirit of carping at Lücke and De Wette, denies the applicability of this passage, understanding ἐπιθυμ . τῶν ὀφθ . as (if I rightly take his meaning, which is not very clear) the desire of seeing, as of the man who would not come to the supper because he must  go and see his five yoke of oxen. But his whole view of this difficult passage is very superficial),  and the vainglory of life (the ἀλάζων is one who lays claim to credit or glory which is not his own: see notes on Rom 1:30 and James 4:16 .  βίος here as in ref. is men’s way or course of life. So in Polyb. vi. 57. 6, ἡ περὶ τοὺς βίους ἀλαζονεία κ . πολυτέλεια : he having before observed, τοὺς βίους γενέσθαι πολυτελεστέρους . This βίος comprehends in it the means of living and fashion of living, table, furniture, equipage, income, rank; and the ἀλαζονεία arising out of these is that vainglorious pride, which is so common in the rich and fashionable),  is not of (springs not from, has not as its source: see below)  the Father (this name is again used for God, in reference to τεκνία and παιδία above),  but is of the world (has its origin from the world. It is necessary, in opposition to all such interpretations as that of Socinus, “valde dissident ab eis quæ Deus per Christum nos sectari jussit,” and Rosenmüller, “non est in his perfectio moralis,” to lay down very distinctly St. John’s limits of thought and speech in this matter. “Through our whole Epistle,” says Düsterdieck (cf. especially 1 John 2:29 , ch. 1 John 3:7 ff., 1 John 4:2 ff., 1 John 4:7 ff., 1 John 5:1 ff.), “runs the view, which also is manifest in the Gospel of St. John, that only the mind which springs from God is directed to God. He who is born of God, loves God, knows God (1 John 2:3 ff.), does God’s will. God Himself, who first loved us, viz. in Christ His incarnate Son, begot in us that love which of moral necessity returns again to the Father, and of like necessity embraces our brethren also. This love is hated by the world, because it springs not from the world. It depends not on the world, any more than that perverted love which springs from the world and is directed towards the world, the lust of the flesh, &c., can be directed to the Father, or to God’s children. So that John grasps in reality down to the very foundations of the moral life, when he reminds his readers of the essentially distinct origin of the love of the world, and the love of God. The inmost kernel of the matter is hereby laid bare, and with it a glimpse is given of the whole process of the love of the world, and the love of God, even to the end; and this end is now set forth expressly with extraordinary power:” viz., in the next verse).