The good shepherd [ο ποιμην ο καλος] . Literally, the shepherd the good (shepherd). Kalov, though not of frequent occurrence in John, is more common than ajgaqov, good, which occurs but four times and three times out of the four in the neuter gender, a good thing, or that which is good. Kalov in John is applied to wine (ii. 10), three times to the shepherd in this chapter, and twice to works (x. 32, 33). In classical usage, originally as descriptive of outward form, beautiful; of usefulness, as a fair haven, a fair wind. Auspicious, as sacrifices. Morally beautiful, noble; hence virtue is called to kalon. The New Testament usage is similar. Outwardly fair, as the stones of the temple (Luke 21:5) : well adapted to its purpose, as salt (Mark 9:50) : competent for an office, as deacons (1 Timothy 4:6); a steward (1 Peter 4:10); a soldier (2 Timothy 2:3) : expedient, wholesome (Mark 9:43, Mark 9:45, Mark 9:47) : morally good, noble, as works (Matthew 5:16); conscience (Hebrews 13:18). The phrase it is good, i e., a good or proper thing (Romans 14:21). In the Septuagint kalov is the most usual word for good as opposed to evil (Genesis 2:17; Genesis 24:50; Isaiah 5:20). In Luke 8:15, kalov and ajgaqov are found together as epithets of the heart; honest (or virtuous, noble) and good. The epithet kalov, applied here to the shepherd, points to the essential goodness as nobly realized, and appealing to admiring respect and affection. As Canon Westcott observes, "in the fulfillment of His work, the Good Shepherd claims the admiration of all that is generous in man." Giveth his life [την ψυχην αυτου τιθησιν] . The phrase is peculiar to John, occurring in the Gospel and First Epistle. It is explained in two ways : either (1) as laying down as a pledge, paying as a price, according to the classical usage of the word tiqhmi. So Demosthenes, to pay interest or the alien tax. Or (2) according to John 13:4, as laying aside his life like a garment. The latter seems preferable. Tiqhmi, in the sense of to pay down a price, does not occur in the New Testament, unless this phrase, to lay down the life, be so explained. 34 In John 13:4, layeth aside His garments [τιδησι τα ιματια] is followed, in ver. 12, by had taken His garments [ελαβε τα ιματια] . So, in this chapter, giveth [τιδησιν] His life (ver. 11), and I lay down [τιδημι] my life (vv. 17, 18), are followed by labein "to take it again." The phrases thn yuchn He laid down His life, and tav yucav qeinai to lay down our lives, occur in 1 John 3:16. The verb is used in the sense of laying aside in the classics, as to lay aside war, shields, etc. Compare Matthew 20:28, dounai thn yuchn, to give His life. For the sheep [υπερ] . On behalf of.