The exhortation is enforced by reference to the character of the revelation which sets forth the rest of God. The message of God which promises the rest and urges to seek it, is no dead, formal precept, but is instinct with living energy. The word of God [ο λογος του θεου] . That which God speaks through any medium. The primary reference is to God 's declarations concerning his rest. The fathers explained it of the personal Word as in the Fourth Gospel. But in the Epistle there is no approach to any definite use of logov with reference to Christ, not even in the description of his relation to God in ch. 1, where, if anywhere, it might have been expected. In ch. Hebrews 6:5 and Hebrews 11:3 we find rJhma. Everywhere in the Epistle Christ appears as the Son, not as the Word. In this passage, the following predicates, ejnerghv, tomwterov, kritikov, would hardly be applied to the Logos, and in ver. 14 he is styled Jesus the Son of God. Quick and powerful [ζων και ενεργης] . Note the emphatic position of zwn living. Living is the word of God, since it is the word of "the living God" (ch. 3 12). Living in its essence. For ejnerghv active, energizing, and kindred words, see on John 1:12; Philippians 3:21; Colossians 1:29; Philippians 1:6. Manifesting itself actively in the world and in men's hearts. Comp. 1 Peter 1:23. Sharper than any two - edged sword [τομωτερος υπερ πασαν μαχαιραν διστομον] . Tomwterov sharper from temnein to cut, N. T. o. o LXX The word of God has an incisive and penetrating quality. It lays bare self - delusions and moral sophisms. For the comparison of the word of God or of men to a sword, see Psalms 57:4; Psalms 59:7; Psalms 64:3; Ephesians 6:17. Philo calls his Logos oJ tomeuv the cutter, as cutting chaos into distinct things, and so creating a kosmos. JUper than, is literally, above. Pasan any, is every. Dismoton only here and Revelation 1:16; Revelation 2:12, lit. two - mouthed. In LXX always of a sword. See Jude 1:3:16; Psalms 149:6; Proverbs 5:4; Sir. 21 3. In Class. of a cave with a twofold mouth (Soph. Philoct. 16); of double - branching roads (Soph. Oed. Col. 900); of rivers with two mouths (Polyb. Pro 34:10, 5). Stoma mouth, of the edge of a sword, Luke 21:24; Hebrews 11:34. Often in LXX, as Genesis 34:26; Joshua Genesis 10:28, Genesis 10:33, Genesis 10:35, Genesis 10:37, Genesis 10:39; Jude 1:8. So occasionally in Class., as Homer, Il. xv. 389. Katesqiein or katesqein to devour is used of the sword, Deuteronomy 32:42; 2 Samuel 2:26; Isaiah 31:8; Jeremiah 2:30, etc. Macaira sword, in Class. a dirk or dagger : rarely, a carving knife; later, a bent sword or sabre as contrasted with a straight, thrusting sword, xifov (not in N. T. but occasionally in LXX). JRomfaia, Luke 2:35 (see note), elsewhere only in Revelation, very often in LXX, is a large broadsword. In LXX of Goliath's sword, 1 Samuel 17:51 Piercing [διικνουμενος] . Lit. coming through. N. T. o. Even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of the joints and marrow [αρχι μερισμου ψυχης και πνευματος αρμων τε και μυελων] . Merismov dividing, only here and ch. 2 4, is not to be understood of dividing soul from spirit or joints from marrow. Soul and spirit cannot be said to be separated in any such sense as this, and joints and marrow are not in contact with each other. Merismov is the act of division; not the point or line of division. Joints and marrow are not to be taken in a literal and material sense. 184 In rendering, construe soul, spirit, joints, marrow, as all dependent on dividing. Joints and marrow [αρμων, μυελων, ν. τ. ο] are to be taken figuratively as joints and marrow of soul and spirit. This figurative sense is exemplified in classical usage, as Eurip. Hippol. 255, "to form moderate friendships, and not prov arkon muelon yuchv to the deep marrow of the soul." The conception of depth applied to the soul is on the same figurative line. See Aesch. Agam. 778; Eurip. Bacch. 203. Attempts to explain on any psychological basis are futile. The form of expression is poetical, and signifies that the word penetrates to the inmost recesses of our spiritual being as a sword cuts through the joints and marrow of the body. The separation is not of one part from another, but operates in each department of the spiritual nature. The expression is expanded and defined by the next clause. A discerner [κριτικος] . N. T. o. o LXX The word carries on the thought of dividing. From krinein to divide or separate, which runs into the sense of judge, the usual meaning in N. T., judgment involving the sifting out and analysis of evidence. In kritikov the ideas of discrimination and judgment are blended. Vulg. discretor. Of the thoughts and intents of the heart [ενθυμησεων και εννοιων καρδιας] . The A. V. is loose and inaccurate. jEnqumhsis rare in N. T. See Matthew 9:4; Acts 17:29. Comp. ejnqumeisqai, Matthew 1:20; Matthew 9:4. In every instance, both of the noun and of the verb, the sense is pondering or thinking out. Rend. the reflections. Ennoia only here and 1 Peter 4:1. It is the definite conception which follows ejnqumhsiv Rend. conceptions. 