And He. Emphatic. The same who is before all things and in whom all things consist. The head of the body, the Church. The Church is described as a body, Romans 12:4 sq.; 1 Corinthians 12:12-27; 1 Corinthians 10:17, by way of illustrating the functions of the members. Here the image is used to emphasize the position and power of Christ as the head. Compare ch. 2 19; Ephesians 1:22, Ephesians 1:23; Ephesians 4:4, Ephesians 4:12, Ephesians 4:15, Ephesians 4:16; Ephesians 5:23, Ephesians 5:30. Who is the beginning [ος εστιν αρχη] . Who is, equivalent to seeing He is. Beginning, with reference to the Church; not the beginning of the Church, but of the new life which subsists in the body - the Church. The first - born from the dead [πρωτοτοκος εκ των νεκρων] . Defining how Christ is the beginning of the new spiritual life : by His resurrection. Compare 1 Corinthians 14:20, 1 Corinthians 14:23, and Prince of life, Acts 3:15 (note) See on Revelation 1:5, where the phrase is slightly different, "first - born of the dead." He comes forth from among the dead as the first - born issues from the womb. Compare Acts 2:4, "having loosed the pains of death," where the Greek is wjdinav birth - throes. 188 There is a parallelism between first - born of the creation and first - born from the dead as regards the relation of headship in which Christ stands to creation and to the Church alike; but the parallelism is not complete. "He is the first - born from the dead as having been Himself one of the dead. He is not the first - born of all creation as being himself created" [δωιγητ] . In all things. The universe and the Church. Might have the preeminence [γενηται πρωτευων] . Lit., might become being first. Prwteuw to be first only here in the New Testament. Genhtai become states a relation into which Christ came in the course of time : ejstin is (the first - born of all creation) states a relation of Christ 's absolute being. He became head of the Church through His incarnation and passion, as He is head of the universe in virtue of His absolute and eternal being. Compare Philippians 2:6, "being [υπαρχων] in the form of God - was made [γενομενος] obedient unto death." This sense is lost in the rendering might have the preeminence.