 15. ] Explanation of σὺν  ὑμῖν as a ground of his trust: with reference also to ἡ δὲ ζωὴ ἐν  ὑμῖν , 2 Corinthians 4:12 ; viz. that all, both the sufferings and victory of the ministers, are  for the church: see the parallel expression, ch. 2 Corinthians 1:6-7 .  For all things (  of which we have been speaking ; or perhaps hyperbolically, ALL THINGS, the whole working and arrangements of God, as in 1 Corinthians 3:22 , εἴτε ἐνεστῶτα εἴτε μέλλοντα , πάντα ὑμῶν )  are on your behalf, that Grace, having abounded by means of the greater number (who have received it),  may multiply the thanksgiving (which shall accrue),  to the glory of God. Such (1) is the rendering of Meyer, and, in the main, of Chrys., Erasm., al., and recently, Rückert and Olshausen.  Three other ways are possible; (2) ‘  that Grace, having abounded, may, on account of the thanksgiving of the greater number, be multiplied (‘ πλεονάζω habet vim positivi: περισσεύω , comparativi,’ Bengel)  to the glory of God. ’ So Luther, Beza, Estius, Grot., Bengel, al.: (3) ‘  that Grace, having abounded, may, by means of the greater number, multiply the thanksgiving to the glory of God .’ So Emmerling and De Wette: (4) ‘  that Grace having multiplied (see 1 Thessalonians 3:12 , for the transitive sense)  by means of the greater number the thanksgiving, may abound to the glory of God .’ This last has not been suggested by any Commentator that I am aware of, but is admissible.
	I prefer (1), as best agreeing with the position of the words, and with the emphases. If (2) had been intended, I should have expected ἵνα πλεονάσασα ἡ χάρις , πλεονάσασα in its present position standing awkwardly alone. The same remark applies to (3), and this besides, that in that case I should expect πλειόνων , and not τῶν πλ ., in which the art. rather regards the  matter of fact , the many who  have received the grace, or who give thanks, than the intention, to multiply the thanksgiving by the (possible) greater number of persons. If (4) had been intended, I should have looked for ἵνα ἡ χάρις τὴν εὐχαριστίαν πλεον . διὰ τῶν πλει ., περισς . κ . τ . λ . By adopting (1), we keep the words and emphases just where they stand: ἵνα ἡ χάρις , πλεονάσασα διὰ τῶν πλειόνων (not διὰ τ . πλ . πλεον ., which would give an undue prominence to διὰ τῶν πλειόν ., whereas those words only particularize πλεονάσασα ), τὴν εὐχ . περισσεύσῃ , εἰς τὴν δόξαν τ . θεοῦ . As to the  sense , (see the very similar sentiment, ch. 2 Corinthians 1:11 ,)  thanksgiving is the highest and noblest offering of the Church to God’s glory ( θυσία αἰνέσεως δοξάσει με , Ps. 49:23, LXX):  that this may be rendered , in the best sense, as the result of the working of grace which has become abundant by means of the many recipients, is the great end of the Christian ministry.