 1 .]  διὰ τοῦτο refers to the previous description of the freeness and unvailedness of the ministry of the Gospel, and of the state of Christians in general (ch. 2Co 3:18 ).
	 ἔχοντες τ  .   δ  .   ταύτ . further expands and explains διὰ τοῦτο .
	 καθὼς ἠλεήθ .]  even as we received mercy (from God, at the time of our being appointed; cf. ἠλεήθην , 1Ti 1:16 ): belongs to ἔχ . τ . δ . ταύτ ., not to what follows, and is a qualification, in humility, of ἔχοντες ‘possessing it, not as our own, but in as far as we were shewn mercy.’
	 οὐκ ἐγκακοῦμεν ]  We do not behave ourselves in a cowardly manner, do not shrink from plainness of speech and action. ἐγκακέω is the opposite of παῤῥησιάζω . οὐκ ἐκκακοῦμεν would be, ‘  we do not give up through faintness or cowardice .’ It is hardly possible to decide satisfactorily between the two readings. ἐγκ . seems to be universal, except in the N. T. (rec. text) and the Fathers, which have ἐκκ . Did the Fathers borrow this form from the N. T., or was it the usual form of later Greek, and as such introduced into the text by the copyists? In such doubt, I have followed manuscript authority.
	 But (cowardice alone prompting concealment in such a case, where it does not belong to the character of the ministry itself)  we have renounced (so Herod. iv. 125, τῶν ἀπειπαμένων τὴν σφετέρην συμμαχίην : Ælian, N. H. vi. 1, an τὴν ἀκόλαστον κοίτην ἀπείπατο παντελῶς πᾶσαν : and other examples in Wetst.)  the hidden things of shame (the having any views, ends, or practices which such as have them hide through shame: not, as De Wette,  the hidden things of infamy or  dishonesty . αἰσχύνη is subjective, =, as Meyer, φόβος ἐπὶ προσδοκίᾳ ἀδοξίας , Plato Defin. p. 416. It is plain from the context that it refers, not to crimes and unholy practices, but to  crooked arts , of which men  are ashamed , and which perhaps were made use of by the false teachers),  not walking (having our daily conversation) in  craftiness (see ref.)  nor adulterating (see ch. 2 Corinthians 2:17 , note)  the word of God, but by the manifestation of the truth (as  our only means , see 1 Thessalonians 2:3-4 ; the words come first, as emphatic),  recommending ourselves (a recurrence to the charge and apology of ch. 2 Corinthians 3:1 ff.) to (with reference to, the verdict of)  every conscience of men (every possible variety of the human conscience; implying, there is no conscience but will inwardly acknowledge this, however loath some among you may be outwardly to confess it. So that the expression is not exactly = πρ . τὴν συν . πάντων ἀνθρώπων . We need hardly extend ἀνθρ . so wide as Chrys. (Hom. viii. p. 493), οὐ … πιστοῖς μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀπίστοις ἐσμὲν κατάδηλοι : he is speaking as a  teacher , and the men spoken of are naturally  his hearers and disciples ),  in the sight of God (as ch. 2 Corinthians 2:17 ; not  merely to satisfy men’s consciences, but with regard to God’s all-seeing eye which discerns the heart).