14. James here, passing from the
	particular case of "mercy" or "love" violated by
	"respect of persons," notwithstanding profession of the
	"faith of our Lord Jesus" ( :-), combats the Jewish tendency (transplanted into their
	Christianity) to substitute a lifeless, inoperative acquaintance with
	the letter of the law, for change of heart to practical holiness, as
	if justification could be thereby attained (Romans 2:3;
	Romans 2:13; Romans 2:23).
	It seems hardly likely but that James had seen Paul's Epistles,
	considering that he uses the same phrases and examples (compare
	James 2:21; James 2:23;
	James 2:25; Romans 4:3;
	Hebrews 11:17; Hebrews 11:31;
	and James 2:14; James 2:24;
	Romans 3:28; Galatians 2:16).
	Whether James individually designed it or not, the Holy Spirit by him
	combats not Paul, but those who abuse Paul's doctrine. The teaching
	of both alike is inspired, and is therefore to be received without
	wresting of words; but each has a different class to deal with; Paul,
	self-justiciaries; James, Antinomian advocates of a mere notional
	faith. Paul urged as strongly as James the need of works as evidences
	of faith, especially in the later Epistles, when many were abusing
	the doctrine of faith (Titus 2:14;
	Titus 3:8). "Believing and
	doing are blood relatives" [RUTHERFORD].
	What doth it
	profit—literally, "What is the profit?" 
	though a man say—James'
	expression is not, "If a man have faith," but "if a
	man say he hath faith"; referring to a mere profession
	of faith, such as was usually made at baptism. Simon Magus so
	"believed and was baptized," and yet had "neither
	part nor lot in this matter," for his "heart," as his
	words and works evinced, was not right in the sight of God. ALFORD
	wrongly denies that "say" is emphatic. The illustration,
	James 2:16, proves it is: "If
	one of you say" to a naked brother, "Be ye warmed,
	notwithstanding ye give not those things needful." The
	inoperative profession of sympathy answering to the
	inoperative profession of faith. 
	can faith save him—rather,
	"can such a faith (literally, 'the faith') save him?"—the
	faith you pretend to: the empty name of boasted faith, contrasted
	with true fruit-producing faith. So that which self-deceivers claim
	is called "wisdom," though not true wisdom, James 2:16- :. The "him" also in the Greek is emphatic;
	the particular man who professes faith without having the works which
	evidence its vitality.