Romans 12:2.  And not to be.  The best authorities give the infinitive (not the imperative) form in this verse, which must therefore be connected closely with ‘beseech’ (Romans 12:1). The tense used points to continued action.
	 Fashioned after.  The words rendered ‘conformed’ and ‘transformed’ have different derivations; the former refers more to the outward form (the noun is usually rendered ‘fashion’), the latter to the organic form. Some deny such a distinction in this instance, but it is well to reproduce the verbal variation in English.
	 This world,  or, ‘age;’ comp. Galatians 1:4; Ephesians 2:2. The phrase is used in a   bad sense.
	 But to be transformed,  or, ‘transfigured,’ as in Matthew 17:2; Mark 9:2 (the same   word occurs in 2 Corinthians 3:18). Here also a   continuous process is indicated.
	 By the renewing of your mind.  This is the instrument of the transformation. The ‘mind’ (comp. chap. Romans 7:23; Romans 7:25, and   Excursus), or, practical reason, is naturally under the dominion of the flesh; it needs renewal, which is wrought by the Holy Spirit, faith being the subjective element of its operation. Through this renewed mind there results the transformation in the whole man. The passive suggests the agency of the Holy Spirit, while the exhortation implies moral freedom.
	 That ye may prove,  or, ‘in order to prove,’ to put to the practical test,  what is the will of God.  Not simply to be able to do this, but actually to do so, the conscience being continually educated by the Holy Ghost. The inward renewal has as its result an increasing delicacy of judgment in Christian ethics, the will of God respecting our conduct in the world. The practical portion of this Epistle is designed to help this judgment
	 What is  (lit, ‘the’)  good and well-pleasing (to God)  and perfect.  This is in apposition with what precedes, and   not a   qualification of it as the E. V. indicates. The latter view compels us to take ‘well-pleasing’ in the sense of agreeable to men. What God wills is that which is ‘good,’ in its end, ‘well-pleasing’ to Him, and ‘perfect’ as uniting these two. As a   practical matter, what is God’s will in our particular circumstances is determined by the renewed mind prayerfully seeking what   is good and well-pleasing and perfect.
	