Romans 12:8.  Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation,  lit., ‘the exhortation,’ which is his sphere. ‘Teaching’ was directed to the understanding; ‘exhortation,’ rather to the heart and will. The exhorter might also be a prophet, but the habit seems to have been to base the exhortation on a passage of Scripture, as in the synagogue   (comp. Acts 13:15). It is impossible to find here any permanent office in the church, though these four were probably the basis of a subsequent development into more permanent official positions.
	 He that giveth,  or, ‘imparteth,’  let him do it with simplicity,  or, ‘liberality.’ This should be referred to all who have the ‘gift’ of imparting, private Christians as well as the official almoners of the Church. It does not mean the imparting of spiritual benefit, but of earthly goods. This is a ‘charism’ which many may have, who can do little else for Christ’s cause. He who thus gives should do it ‘with simplicity,’  i.e.,   ‘without any selfishness, without boasting, without secondary designs, etc., but in plain sincerity of disposition’ (Meyer). Many explain ‘with liberality,’ because the other qualifications referred to outward character, rather than to the frame of mind. But this sense of the Greek word is very unusual, and the exhortation to simplicity seems both appropriate and needful. Liberal giving is far easier than simple giving.
	 He that ruleth,  or, ‘presideth,’  with diligence.  That this ‘gift’ was necessary for the presbyter (the ruler, or, bishop) of the church, is quite evident. But since the preceding and subsequent clauses point, either to private Christians, or to the deacons, an exclusive reference to the office of presbyter seems out of place. ‘Diligence’ should characterize the performance of duty of all those who have the gift of leadership. The explanation: ‘he that entertaineth strangers,’ is unsustained by good evidence.
	 He that showeth mercy, with cheerful-ness.  This also refers to all Christians who administer help and comfort to the suffering. Here there is great danger of rendering perfunctory service, hence the appropriate exhortation ‘with cheerfulness.’
	 The three ‘gifts’ which private Christians also have might far more frequently be exercised. Too many who could do great service by giving, presiding (or, performing other executive duty), and showing mercy, waste their energies by attempting to exhort and teach, or even to prophesy. Let each prayerfully consider what his special gift is.
	 The hints given here and elsewhere in the Epistles do not support any one theory of church polity. This whole matter seems to have been in process of development during the Apostolic age. Of fixed and binding usage there is little trace. The Apostle says little, because so much was to be left to the free enactment of the various bodies of Christians. The true way to unity will doubtless be through liberty, and to liberty the freedom of association is essential; and to freedom of association variety of form seems, for the present at least, to be equally essential.
	