 5.   λοιμόν ] See reff. and Demosth. p. 794. 5, οὗτος οὖν αὐτὸν ἐξαιτήσεται ὁ φαρμακός , ὁ λοιμὸς … The construction here is an anacoluthon, there being nothing to follow up the part. εὑρόντες . The part. cannot be taken for the finite verb. See Winer, edn. 6, § 45. 6. b.
	 ἡ οἰκουμένη ] would here mean the Roman ‘orbis terrarum.’
	 Ναζωρ .] This is the only place in the N. T. where the Christians are so called. The  Jews could not call them by any name answering to  Christians , as the hope of  a Messiah was professed by themselves.
	[  6 .] Considerable difficulty rests on the omission of the words καὶ κατά to πρὸς σέ . Their absence from the principal MSS., their many variations in those which contain them, are strongly against their genuineness; as also is the consideration that no probable reason for their omission can be suggested. On the other hand, as De Wette observes, it is hardly imaginable that so little should have been assigned to the speaker as would be if these words were omitted. Besides this, the historic aorist ἐκρατήσαμεν seems to require some sequel, some reason, after this seizure, why he was there present and freed from Jewish durance. The phænomena are common enough in the Acts, of unaccountable insertions, and almost always in D (here deficient). See a list of such in Prolegg. to Acts, § Acts 24:3 . But in this place it is the  omission which is unaccountable, for no similarity of ending, no doctrinal consideration can have led to it. The two reasons cited from Matthæi by Bloomfield, ed. 9, 1) “that the critics believed the Jews hardly likely to have accused Lysias himself,” 2) “because the words παρ ʼ οὗ , at Acts 24:8 , must be referred to Paul: though by its (  sic ) position, it seems to refer to Lysias,” are futile and childish enough (on the latter of them, see below); and I only refer to them, to shew by what sort of considerations English readers are still supposed to be influenced.
	I still retain the words, in dark brackets, being as much at a loss as ever to decide respecting them, and being moved principally by the aorist ἐκρατήσαμεν , inexplicable without any sequel. It may of course be said that this very circumstance may have given rise to their insertion. But of the two it seems to me less likely that Tertullus should have ended with ἐκρατήσαμεν , than that an abridgment of his speech should have been attempted. It may be a question how far we can detect traces of deliberate abridgment, in our early MSS., of the text of the Acts.]