 11.   ἡμέραι δώδεκα ] The point of this seems to be, that Felix having been so long time a judge among the Jews, must be well able to search into and adjudicate on an offence whose whole course was comprised within so short a period.
	The twelve days may be thus made out: 1. his arrival in Jerusalem, ch. Act_21:15 to Act_17:2 . his interview with James, ib. Acts 21:18 ff. Acts 21:3 . his taking on him the vow, ib. 26; 3 7. the time of the vow, interrupted by 7. his apprehension, ch. Acts 21:27 ; Acts 8:0 . his appearance before the Sanhedrim, ch. Acts 22:30 ff; Acts 9:0 . his departure from Jerusalem (at night); and so to the 13th, the day now current, which was the 5th inclusive from his leaving Jerusalem. This, which is also De Wette and Meyer’s arrangement, is far more natural than that of Kuin., Olsh., Heinr., &c., who suppose that the days which he had already spent at Cæsarea are  not to be counted , because his raising disturbances while in custody was out of the question. The view advocated by Wieseler (Chron. der Apost.-gesch. pp. 103 ff.), that Paul was  apprehended on the  very day of his appearance with the men in the temple, I cannot but regard, notwithstanding his arguments in its favour, as inconsistent with the text of ch. Acts 21:26-27 ; as also his idea that the Apostle  did not take the vow on himself : the expression σὺν αὐτοῖς ἁγνισθείς clearly negativing the latter supposition; and τῶν ἡμερῶν τοῦ ἁγνισμοῦ , Acts 24:26 , being manifestly, unless to one warped by a hypothesis, identical with αἱ ἑπτὰ ἡμέραι of Acts 24:27 . See note there. I mention this  here , because these suppositions materially affect his arrangement of the twelve days, which he gives thus: 2nd, from Cæsarea to Jerusalem; 3rd, interview with James 4:0 th, (Pentecost) visit to the temple with the Nazarites,  and apprehension ; 5th, before the Sanhedrim; 6th, departure from Jerusalem; 7th, arrival in Cæsarea; then, five days from  that (but see note on Act 24:1 ), Ananias, &c.,  leave Jerusalem (but how does this appear from Act 24:1 ? κατέβη must surely denote their arrival at Cæsarea, where the narrator, or, at all events, the locus of the history is); 13th, arrival of Ananias, &c., at Cæsarea,  and hearing (improbable) of Paul. So that the above hypotheses are not the  only reasons for rejecting Wieseler’s arrangement.