 2 .] ‘Inter præcepta rhetorica est, judicem laudando sibi benevolum reddere.’ (Grot.) Certainly Tertullus fulfils and overacts the precept, for his exordium is full of the basest flattery. Contrast with πολλῆς εἰρ . τυγχ ., Tac. Ann. xii. 54: ‘Interim Felix intempestivis remediis delicta accendebat, æmulo ad deterrima Ventid. Cumano, cui pars provinciæ habebatur: ita divisis, ut huic Galilæorum natio, Felici Samaritæ parerent, discordes olim, et tum, contemptu regentium, minus coercitis odiis. Igitur  raptare inter se, immittere latronum globos, componere insidias, et aliquando prœliis congredi, spoliaque et prædas ad Procuratores referre ;’ Hist. Acts 24:9 , quoted above, on ch. Acts 23:24 ; and Jos. Antt. xx. 8. 9, οἱ πρωτεύοντες τῶς τὴν Καισάρειαν κατοικούντων Ἰουδαίων εἰς τὴν Ῥώμην ἀναβαίνουσι , Φήλικος κατηγοροῦντες · καὶ πάντως ἂν ἐδεδώκει τιμωρίαν τῶν εἰς Ἰουδαίους ἀδικημάτων , εἰ μὴ πολλὰ αὐτὸν ὁ Νέρων τῷ ἀδελφῷ Πάλλαντι παρακαλέσαντι συνεχώρησε .… There was just enough foundation for the flattery, to make the falsehood of its general application to Felix more glaring. He had put down some rebels (see ch. Acts 21:38 , note) and assassins (Antt. xx. 8. 4), ‘ipse tamen his omnibus erat nocentior’ (Wetst.).
	It has been remarked (by Dean Milman, Bampton Lectures, p. 185) that the character of this address is  peculiarly Latin (but qu. ?); and it bas been inferred from a passage in Valerius Maximus (cited at length in C. and H., vol. i. p. 3), that all pleadings, even in Greek provinces, were conducted before Roman magistrates  in Latin . But Mr. Lewin has well observed (ii. 684), “under the emperors trials were permitted in Greek, even in Rome itself, as well in the senate as in the forum (Dio Cassius, Leviticus 15:0 , says of Tiberius, πολλὰς μὲν δίκας ἐν τῇ διαλέκτῳ ταύτῃ (viz. Greek) καὶ ἐκεῖ (in the Senate) λεγομένας ἀκούων , πολλὰς δὲ καὶ αὐτὸς ἐπερωτῶν ); and it is unlikely that greater strictness should have been observed in a distant province. The name Tertullus proves little, as the Greeks, and even the Jews, very commonly adopted Roman names.” On this latter point, see note, ch. Acts 13:9 .
	 διόρθωμα is ‘an amelioration or reform:’ κατόρθωμα , ‘res præclare facta,’ generally, whether military or civil (‘quæ nos aut recta aut recte facta dicamus, si placet, illi autem appellant κατορθώματα .’ Cic. de Fin. iii. 7). Phrynichus remarks, p. 250, ἁμαρτάνουσιν οἱ ῥήτορες οὐκ εἰδότες ὅτι τὸ κατορθῶσαι , δόκιμον . τὸ δ ʼ ἀπὸ το  ύ του ὄνομα ἀδόκιμον , τὸ κατόρθωμα , where see Lobeck’s note. I have, as always where reason to the contrary is not  very clear , followed the authority of the most ancient MSS.
	 προνοίας ] ‘providentiæ.’ ‘Hoc vocabulum sæpe diis tribuerunt’ (Beng.). ‘Providentia Cæsaris’ is a common phrase on the coins of the emperors (Mr. Humphry).