 Yet now  (νυν δε). Sharpened contrast with emphatic form of νυν, "now" being not at the present moment, but in the present order of things in the new dispensation of grace in Christ.Hath he reconciled  (αποκατηλλαξεν). First aorist (effective, timeless) active indicative (a sort of parenthetical anacoluthon). Here B reads αποκαταλλαγητε, be ye reconciled like καταλλαγητε in 2 Corinthians 5:20 while D has αποκαταλλαγεντες. Lightfoot prefers to follow B here (the hard reading), though Westcott and Hort only put it in the margin. On the word see verse Colossians 1:20.In the body of his flesh  (εν τω σωματ της σαρκος αυτου). See the same combination in Colossians 2:11 though in Ephesians 2:14 only σαρκ (flesh). Apparently Paul combines both σωμα and σαρξ to make plain the actual humanity of Jesus against incipient Docetic Gnostics who denied it.Through death  (δια του θανατου). The reconciliation was accomplished by means of Christ's death on the cross (verse Colossians 1:20) and not just by the Incarnation (the body of his flesh) in which the death took place.To present  (παραστησα). First aorist active (transitive) infinitive (of purpose) of παριστημ, old verb, to place beside in many connections. See it used of presenting Paul and the letter from Lysias to Felix (Acts 23:33). Repeated in Colossians 2:28. See also 2 Corinthians 11:2; 2 Corinthians 4:14. Paul has the same idea of his responsibility in rendering an account for those under his influence seen in Hebrews 13:17. See Romans 12:1 for use of living sacrifice.Holy  (αγιους). Positively consecrated, separated unto God. Common in N.T. for believers. Haupt holds that all these terms have a religious and forensic sense here.Without blemish  (αμωμους). Without spot (Philippians 2:15). Old word α privative and μωμος (blemish). Common in the LXX for ceremonial purifications.Unreproveable  (ανεγκλητους). Old verbal adjective from α privative and εγκαλεω, to call to account, to pick flaws in. These three adjectives give a marvellous picture of complete purity (positive and negative, internal and external). This is Paul's ideal when he presents the Colossians "before him" (κατενωπιον αυτου), right down in the eye of Christ the Judge of all. 