 Through him  (δι' αυτου). As the sufficient and chosen agent in the work of reconciliation (αποκαταλλαξα, first aorist active infinitive of αποκαταλλασσω, further addition to ευδοκησεν, was pleased). This double compound (απο, κατα with αλλασσω) occurs only here, verse Colossians 1:22; Ephesians 2:16, and nowhere else so far as known. Paul's usual word for "reconcile" is καταλλασσω (2 Corinthians 5:18-20; Romans 5:10), though διαλλασσω (Matthew 5:24) is more common in Attic. The addition of απο here is clearly for the idea of complete reconciliation. See on 2 Corinthians 5:18-20 for discussion of καταλλασσω, Paul's great word. The use of τα παντα (the all things, the universe) as if the universe were somehow out of harmony reminds us of the mystical passage in Romans 8:19-23 which see for discussion. Sin somehow has put the universe out of joint. Christ will set it right.Unto himself  (εις αυτον). Unto God, though αυτον is not reflexive unless written αυτον.Having made peace  (ειρηνοποιησας). Late and rare compound (Proverbs 10:10 and here only in N.T.) from ειρηνοποιος, peacemaker (Matthew 5:9; here only in N.T.). In Ephesians 2:15 we have ποιων ειρηνην (separate words)making peace . Not the masculine gender, though agreeing with the idea of Christ involved even if πληρωμα be taken as the subject of ευδοκησεν, a participial anacoluthon (construction according to sense as in Colossians 2:19). If θεος be taken as the subject of ευδοκησεν the participle ειρηνοποιησας refers to Christ, not to θεος (God).Through the blood of his cross  (δια του αιματος του σταυρου αυτου). This for the benefit of the Docetic Gnostics who denied the real humanity of Jesus and as clearly stating the causa medians (Ellicott) of the work of reconciliation to be the Cross of Christ, a doctrine needed today.Or things in the heavens  (ειτε τα εν τοις ουρανοις). Much needless trouble has been made over this phrase as if things in heaven were not exactly right. It is rather a hypothetical statement like verse Colossians 1:16 not put in categorical form (Abbott), universitas rerum (Ellicott). 