 4. ]  Confirmation of the foregoing οὐκ ἀσθενεῖ , ἀλλὰ δυνατεῖ . The rec. text, καὶ γὰρ εἰ , would be quite beside the purpose, and would mean, ‘  For even if He were crucified ’, ‘for even putting the case that He was crucified:’ καὶ εἰ cannot he = εἰ καί ,  though , as in Vulg. ‘etsi,’ and E. V. Hartung, Partikellehre i. 139, shews that in καὶ εἰ , the climax belongs only to the hypothetical particle εἰ , not as in εἰ καί , to the fact presupposed: ‘  even if ,’ not ‘  if even ,’ or ‘  although .’ Examples of καὶ εἰ are Plato, Sympos. 185, καὶ ἐὰν τοῦτο ποιήσῃς ἅπαξ ἢ δίς , καὶ εἰ πάνυ ἰσχυρά ἐστι , παύσεται . Eur. Androm. 266, καὶ γὰρ εἰ πέριξ σ ʼ ἔχει τηκτὸς μόλυβδος , ἐξαναστήσω σ ʼ ἐγώ . Sappho, καὶ γὰρ αἰ φεύγει , ταχέως διώξει . See more in Hartung, l. c.
	 For he was even crucified (that καὶ γάρ always means ‘  for …  even ’ …, or ‘  for …  also ,’ and never simply ‘  for ,’ see Hartung, i. 137 f., where he has collected many examples, e.g.: Il. α . 63, καὶ γάρ τ ʼ ὄναρ ἐκ Διός ἐστιν , Herod. i. 77, καὶ γὰρ πρὸς τούτους αὐτῷ ἐπεποίητο συμμαχίη )  from (as the source, the conditional element, by which His crucifixion became possible)  weakness, yet He lives by (source [of His life])  the Power of God (which raised Him from the dead, Romans 6:4 ; Romans 8:11 ; Ephesians 1:20 ; Php 2:9 ).  For we also are weak in Him (i.e.  in Him , in our communion with and imitation of Christ, we, as He did, lay aside our power and spare you: we partake of His voluntary abnegation of power which we might have used. The context requires this explanation, and refutes that of Chrys., p. 644, τί ἐστιν , ἀσθ . ἐν αὐτῷ ; διωκόμεθα , ἐλαυνόμεθα , τὰ ἔσχατα πάσχομεν , so Theodoret, Theophyl., Grot., Estius, al.),  but shall live (exercise our apostolic authority, in contrast to the ἀσθένεια above)  with Him (as He now exercises His power in His glorified resurrection life)  from (source)  the power of God [with respect to you ( εἰς ὑμᾶς , if genuine, may belong either to δυνάμεως θεοῦ , = δυνάμ . θεοῦ  τῆς εἰς ὑμᾶς , the art. being often omitted in such constructions, or to ζήσομεν , ‘  we shall live with respect to you ,’ which agrees better with the parallelism, but not so well with the arrangement of the sentence. The sense seems to require the  latter interpretation, for the δύναμις θεοῦ  εἰς ὑμ . would be rather the  result , than the  source of the apostolic energy indicated by ζήσομεν )]. I have taken ζήσομεν , as the context plainly requires, figuratively (see ref.): but many Commentators take it literally, of  the resurrection : e.g. Grot. ‘vitam consequemur immortalem.’