 1. ]  This third time I am coming to you : i.e. ‘  this is the third visit, which I am now about to pay you .’ Had not chronological theories intervened, no one would ever have thought of any other rendering. The usual one, ‘This is the third time that I have been intending to come to you,’ introduces here, as also in ch. 2 Corinthians 12:14 , an element not only foreign to, but detrimental to, the purpose. The Apostle wishes to impress on them  the certainty of this coming, and to prepare them for it by solemn self-examination; and in order to this, he (  on this interpretation ) uses an expression which would only remind them of the charge of ἐλαφρία which had been brought against him, and tend to  diminish the solemnity of the warning . As another chronological refuge, Beza, al., suppose his  two Epistles to be meant by the two former ‘  profectiones ad illos .’ In answer to  all attempts to give here any but the obvious sense, we may safely maintain that had any other been meant, we should certainly have had more indication of it, than we have now. On τρίτον τοῦτο , Meyer compares Herod. 13:76, τέταρτον δὴ τοῦτο … ἀπικόμενοι : see also reff.: and on Paul’s visit to Corinth, the Prolegomena to 1 Cor. § v.
	 ἐπὶ στόμ .] i.e. ‘I will not now, as before, be with you ἐν πάσῃ ὑπομονῇ as regards the offenders: but will come to a regular process, and establish the truth in a legal manner,’see reff.
	This explanation, however, has not been the usual, one: Chrys., Calvin, Estius, al., and recently Neander and Olsh. and Stanley, understanding the two or three witnesses, of Paul’s  two or three visits , as establishing, either (1) the truth of the facts, or (2) the reality of his threats: so Chrys., Hom. xxix. p. 639 f.: ἅπαξ εἶπον κ . δεύτερον , ὅτε παρεγενόμην · λέγω καὶ νῦν διὰ γραμμάτων . καὶ μὴν ἐὰν ἀκούσητέ μου (al. ἐὰν μὲν ἀκούσητε ), ὅπερ ἐπεθύμουν γέγονεν . ἐὰν δὲ παρακούσητε , ἀνάγκη λοιπὸν στῆσαι τὰ εἰρημένα , καὶ ἐπαγαγεῖν τὴν τιμωρίαν , and Theophyl., πᾶν ῥῆμα  ἀπειλητικὸν κατασταθήσεται . But it is decisive against the whole interpretation, as Meyer remarks, that thus the sins committed  since the Apostle’s last visit would remain altogether unnoticed. Another view, connected with the rendering of ἔρχομαι ‘  am intending to come ,’ is given by Wetstein: “Spero jam denique mihi successurum, ut vobis demonstrem, serio me desiderasse ad vos venire: sicut ea quæ trium hominum testimonio probantur, in judicio fidem faciunt.” Similarly Grotius and Le Clerc. But it is fatal to this, that according to it, the  δύο μάρτυρες  had failed to establish it.
	 καὶ τρ ., not for ἢ τρ .,  two (where only two can be had),  and three (where so many can be obtained): ‘  two and three respectively .’ μαρτύ  ρων , the dual number not occurring in the N. T.