Now to him - This and the two following verses are found in many manuscripts at the close of Romans 14:0. Its proper place, however, is here; and the apostle thus concludes the whole Epistle with an ascription of praise.To him ... - To God; be glory; Romans 16:20.Is of power - Greek, Is able; who has power; Ephesians 3:20; Jude 1:24, “Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling,” etc. God only can keep Christians in the path of salvation; and it was well to bring that truth prominently into view at the close of the Epistle.To establish you - To strengthen and confirm you.According to my gospel - According to the gospel which I preach; the doctrines which I have been defending in this Epistle. It is called “his” gospel, not because he was the author of it, or because others did not preach it also, but because he had been “particularly” defending it in this Epistle. The doctrines which he had advanced were just those which were suited to strengthen and confirm them, - the doctrine of justification, of election, of perseverance, and of the protection and favor of God to both Jews and Gentiles. These were the doctrines which he had defended; and it might easily be shown that “these” are the doctrines that give stability to the Christian faith, hope, and love.And the preaching of Jesus Christ - Not his “personal” preaching; but according to that preaching of which Christ is the author and the subject; and particularly, as the following clause shows, to the doctrines by which the partition between the Jews and the Gentiles was broken down, and by which they were admitted to the same privileges and hopes.According to the revelation - According to the communication of what has been so long concealed, but which is now made manifest. The word “revelation” refers to the “publication” of the plan by the gospel.Of the mystery - The word “mystery” means properly what is “hidden” or “concealed,” and is thus applied to any doctrine which was not before known. It does not mean necessarily what is “unintelligible;” but what had not been before revealed; see the note at Matthew 13:11. The word here seems to refer to the principal doctrines of the gospel; its main truths, which had been concealed, especially from the entire Gentile world, but which were now made known.Which was kept secret - Which were kept in “silence” (Greek, σεσιγημένου sesigēmenou), were not divulged or proclaimed.Since the world began - In all past times. This refers particularly to the Gentiles. The Jews had some obscure intimations of these truths, but they were now made known to all the world. The phrase “since the world began” is in Greek, “in eternal times;” that is, in all past times; or, as we should say, they have been “always” concealed.