Now I beseech you - One great object of this Epistle had been to promote “peace” between the Jewish and Gentile converts. So much did this subject press upon the mind of the apostle, that he seems unwilling so leave it. He returns to it again and again; and even after the Epistle is apparently concluded, he returns to it, to give them a new charge on the subject.Mark them - Observe attentively, cautiously, and faithfully Philippians 3:17; be on your guard against them. Ascertain “who are” the real causes of the divisions that spring up, and avoid them.Which cause - Who make. Probably he refers here to “Jewish” teachers, or those who insisted strenuously on the observance of the rites of Moses, and who set up a claim for greater purity and orthodoxy than those possessed who received the Gentile converts as Christian brethren. The Jews were perpetually thus recalling the Christian converts to the Law of Moses; insisting on the observance of those rites; troubling the churches, and producing dissensions and strifes; Galatians 3:1; Galatians 5:1-8; Acts 15:1, Acts 15:24.Divisions - Dissensions; parties; factions; 1 Corinthians 3:3; Galatians 5:20. The very “attempt” to form such parties was evil, no matter what the pretence. They who attempt to form parties in the churches are commonly actuated by some evil or ambitious design.And offences - Scandals; or that give occasion for others to fall into sin. These two things are different. The first means parties; the other denotes such a course of life as would lead others into sin. The “Jew” would form parties, on the pretence of superior holiness; the Gentiles, or some hold Gentile convert might deride the scrupulous feelings of the Jew, and might thus lead him into “sin” in regard to what his conscience really forbade; see Romans 14:15. These persons on both sides were to he avoided, and they were to refuse to follow them, and to cultivate the spirit of unity and peace.Contrary to the doctrine - To the “teaching” which you have received in this Epistle and elsewhere; the teaching that these divisions should cease; that the Jewish ceremonies are not binding; that all should lay aside their causes of former difference, and be united in one family; see Romans 14:0; Romans 15:0.And avoid them - Give them no countenance or approbation. Do not follow them; compare 1 Timothy 6:3-5; 2 John 1:10; Galatians 1:8-9. That is, avoid them as “teachers;” do not follow them. It does not mean that they were to be treated harshly; but that they were to be avoided in their “instructions.” They were to disregard all that they could say tending to produce alienation and strife; and resolve to cultivate the spirit of peace and union. This would be an admirable rule if always followed. Let people make “peace” their prime object; resolve to love all who “are” Christians, and it will be an infallible guage by which to measure the arguments of those who seek to promote alienations and contentions.