18. Confirmation of  :-, by the glorious results of Christ's suffering innocently. 
	For—"Because."
	That is "better,"  :-, means of which we are rendered more like to Christ in death
	and in life; for His death brought the best issue to Himself and to
	us [BENGEL]. 
	Christ—the Anointed
	Holy One of God; the Holy suffered for sins, the
	Just for the unjust.
also—as well as
	yourselves (1 Peter 3:17). Compare
	1 Peter 2:21; there His suffering
	was brought forward as an example to us; here, as a proof of the
	blessedness of suffering for well-doing. 
	once—for all; never
	again to suffer. It is "better" for us also once to suffer
	with Christ, than for ever without Christ We now are suffering our
	"once"; it will soon be a thing of the past; a bright
	consolation to the tried. 
	for sins—as though He
	had Himself committed them. He exposed Himself to death by His
	"confession," even as we are called on to "give an
	answer to him that asketh a reason of our hope." This was
	"well-doing" in its highest manifestation. As He suffered,
	"The Just," so we ought willingly to suffer, for
	righteousness' sake (1 Peter 2:21- :; compare 1 Peter 3:12;
	1 Peter 3:17). 
	that he might bring us to
	God—together with Himself in His ascension to the right hand of
	God (1 Peter 3:22). He brings us,
	"the unjust," justified together with Him into heaven. So
	the result of Christ's death is His drawing men to Him;
	spiritually now, in our having access into the Holiest, opened
	by Christ's ascension; literally hereafter. "Bring us,"
	moreover, by the same steps of humiliation and exaltation through
	which He Himself passed. The several steps of Christ's progress from
	lowliness to glory are trodden over again by His people in virtue of
	their oneness with Him (1 Peter 3:22- :). "To God," is Greek dative (not the
	preposition and case), implying that God wishes it [BENGEL].
	put to death—the means
	of His bringing us to God.
in the flesh—that is,
	in respect to the life of flesh and blood. 
	quickened by the Spirit—The
	oldest manuscripts omit the Greek article. Translate with the
	preposition "in," as the antithesis to the previous "in
	the flesh" requires, "IN
	spirit," that is, in respect to His Spirit. "Put to death"
	in the former mode of life; "quickened" in the
	other. Not that His Spirit ever died and was quickened, or
	made alive again, but whereas He had lived after the manner of mortal
	men in the flesh, He began to live a spiritual "resurrection"
	(1 Peter 3:21) life, whereby
	He has the power to bring us to God. Two ways of explaining 1 Peter 3:18;
	1 Peter 3:19, are open to us: (1)
	"Quickened in Spirit," that is, immediately on His
	release from the "flesh," the energy of His undying
	spirit-life was "quickened" by God the Father, into new
	modes of action, namely, "in the Spirit He went down (as
	subsequently He went up to heaven, 1 Peter 3:19- :, the same Greek verb) and heralded [not salvation,
	as ALFORD, contrary to
	Scripture, which everywhere represents man's state, whether saved or
	lost, after death irreversible. Nor is any mention made of the
	conversion of the spirits in prison. See on 1 Peter 3:19- :. Nor is the phrase here 'preached the Gospel'
	(evangelizo), but 'heralded' (ekeruxe) or 'preached';
	but simply made the announcement of His finished work; so the
	same Greek in Mark 1:45,
	'publish,' confirming Enoch and Noah's testimony, and thereby
	declaring the virtual condemnation of their unbelief, and the
	salvation of Noah and believers; a sample of the similar opposite
	effects of the same work on all unbelievers, and believers,
	respectively; also a consolation to those whom Peter addresses, in
	their sufferings at the hands of unbelievers; specially selected for
	the sake of 'baptism,' its 'antitype' (Mark 1:45- :), which, as a seal, marks believers as separated from the
	rest of the doomed world] to the spirits (His Spirit speaking
	to the spirits) in prison (in Hades or Sheol, awaiting the
	judgment, 2 Peter 2:4), which were
	of old disobedient when," c. (2) The strongest point in favor of
	(1) is the position of "sometime," that is, of old,
	connected with "disobedient" whereas if the preaching
	or announcing were a thing long past, we should expect "sometime,"
	or of old, to be joined to "went and preached." But
	this transposition may express that their disobedience preceded
	His preaching. The Greek participle expresses the reason
	of His preaching, "inasmuch as they were sometime
	disobedient" (compare 1 Peter 4:6).
	Also "went" seems to mean a personal going, as in
	1 Peter 3:22, not merely in
	spirit. But see the answer below. The objections are "quickened"
	must refer to Christ's body (compare 1 Peter 3:22- :, end), for as His Spirit never ceased to live, it
	cannot be said to be "quickened." Compare John 5:21;
	Romans 8:11, and other passages,
	where "quicken" is used of the bodily resurrection.
	Also, not His Spirit, but His soul, went to Hades. His
	Spirit was commended by Him at death to His Father, and was thereupon
	"in Paradise." The theory—(1) would thus require that His
	descent to the spirits in prison should be after His
	resurrection! Compare Ephesians 4:9;
	Ephesians 4:10, which makes the descent
	precede the ascent. Also Scripture elsewhere is silent about
	such a heralding, though possibly Christ's death had immediate
	effects on the state of both the godly and the ungodly in Hades: the
	souls of the godly heretofore in comparative confinement, perhaps
	then having been, as some Fathers thought, translated to God's
	immediate and heavenly presence; but this cannot be proved
	from Scripture. Compare however, John 3:13;
	Colossians 1:18. Prison is always
	used in a bad sense in Scripture. "Paradise" and
	"Abraham's bosom," the abode of good spirits in Old
	Testament times, are separated by a wide gulf from Hell or Hades, and
	cannot be called "prison." Compare 2 Corinthians 12:2;
	2 Corinthians 12:4, where "paradise"
	and the "third heaven" correspond. Also, why should the
	antediluvian unbelievers in particular be selected as the objects of
	His preaching in Hades? Therefore explain: "Quickened in spirit,
	in which (as distinguished from in person; the words "in
	which," that is, in spirit, expressly obviating the
	objection that "went" implies a personal going) He
	went (in the person of Noah, "a preacher of righteousness,"
	2 Peter 2:5: ALFORD'S
	own Note, Ephesians 2:17, is
	the best reply to his argument from "went" that a local
	going to Hades in person is meant. As "He CAME
	and preached peace" by His Spirit in the apostles and
	ministers after His death and ascension: so before His incarnation He
	preached in Spirit through Noah to the antediluvians, John 14:18;
	John 14:28; Acts 26:23.
	"Christ should show," literally, "announce
	light to the Gentiles") and preached unto the spirits in prison,
	that is, the antediluvians, whose bodies indeed seemed free, but
	their spirits were in prison, shut up in the earth as one great
	condemned cell (exactly parallel to Isaiah 24:22;
	Isaiah 24:23 "upon the earth .
	. . they shall be gathered together as prisoners are gathered
	in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison," c. [just
	as the fallen angels are judicially regarded as "in chains of
	darkness," though for a time now at large on the earth, Isaiah 24:23- :], where 1 Peter 3:18 has a
	plain allusion to the flood, "the windows from on high
	are open," compare Genesis 7:11)
	from this prison the only way of escape was that preached by Christ
	in Noah. Christ, who in our times came in the flesh, in the days of
	Noah preached in Spirit by Noah to the spirits then in prison
	(Isaiah 61:1, end, "the
	Spirit of the Lord God hath sent me to proclaim the opening of
	the prison to them that are bound"). So in Isaiah 61:1- :, "the Spirit of Christ" is said to have testified
	in the prophets. As Christ suffered even to death by enemies, and was
	afterwards quickened in virtue of His "Spirit" (or divine
	nature, Romans 1:3; Romans 1:4;
	1 Corinthians 15:45), which henceforth
	acted in its full energy, the first result of which was the raising
	of His body (1 Peter 3:21, end)
	from the prison of the grave and His soul from Hades; so the same
	Spirit of Christ enabled Noah, amidst reproach and trials, to preach
	to the disobedient spirits fast bound in wrath. That Spirit in you
	can enable you also to suffer patiently now, looking for the
	resurrection deliverance.