 1 .]  For (takes up again ch. Heb 4:15 with a view to substantiate it: see remarks below)  every high priest (in the sense, Levitical high priest, the only class here in question. Delitzsch is however right in maintaining, that it is not right to limit the words to this sense, or to see in them this condition, which indeed is not brought forward, but only exists in the nature of the case, no other high priests being in view),  being taken from among men (this participial clause belongs to the predicative portion of the sentence, and indeed carries the chief weight of it, having a slight causal force; ‘inasmuch as he is taken from among men.’ And thus the clause is understood by Chrys., Thl., Primas., and Calv., Schlicht., Grot., Beng., Bl., De W., Lünem., Ebrard, Delitzsch, al. Others, as Luth., Seb. Schm., Wetst., Storr, Kuinoel, al., take it as belonging to the  subject , as does the E. V., “Every high priest taken from among men,” and see in it a contrast, as in ch. Hebrews 7:28 , between human high priests, and the Son of God. But such contrast here is not only not in, but inconsistent with, the context: which does not bring out as yet any difference between Christ and the Jewish high priests, but rather (see below) treats of the attributes of a high priest from their example.  λαμβανόμενος is no technical word, as ‘  capi ’ in Latin: “Eximie virgines Vestales, sed flamines quoque Diales, item pontifices et augures  capi dicebantur,” Aul. Gell. i. 12: for the question here is not of electing or appointing, which comes below in καθίσταται , but simply of  taking from among , as in reff.),  is appointed (the ordinary classical word: ἰατροὺς κατέστησαν ὀκτώ , Xen. Anab. iii. 4. 30: and the pass., ἔδει βασιλέα καθίστασθαι , id. Ages. iii. 1, see also reff., and numerous examples in Bleek)  for (  on behalf of , for the benefit of: vicariousness must not be introduced where the context, as here, does not require it: see note on ch. Heb 2:9 )  men (the stress is both times on this genitive and its preposition,  ἐξ ἀνθρώπων λαμβανόμενος ,  ὑπὲρ ἀνθρώπων καθίσταται : the former justifying the latter. This is a powerful additional reason for taking ἐξ ἀνθρ . λαμβ . predicatively: for if it be taken as attached to the subject, “every high priest taken from among  men ,” with a necessary stress in such case on ‘  men ,’ the same stress must be laid on ‘  men ’ in the ὑπὲρ ἀνθρ ., with an implication that Christ, with whom on this hypothesis the human high priest is contrasted, was  not appointed for  men )  in matters relating to God (see note on ch. Hebrews 2:17 . It is extraordinary how Calvin and Kypke could, in the face of usage and of ch. Heb 2:17 and Hebrews 7:28 ; Hebrews 8:3 , have supposed καθίσταται to be active, and τὰ πρ . τ . θ . accus. after it: “  Curat Pontifex, vel  ordinat, quæ ad Deum pertinent : … constructio melius fluit, et sententia est plenior,” Calv.: “Cultum divinum instituit,” Kypke. So also Stuart in his summary, “that he may superintend or direct the concerns which men have with God;” but not in his commentary. All the instances of an active (dynamic) sense of the middle of καθίστημι adduced by Kypke are in the  aorists , which stand on different ground from the  present ),  that he may offer (the technical word: see reff.)  both gifts and sacrifices for sins (  δῶρα and  θυσίας are both to be taken with  ὑπὲρ ἁμαρτιῶν , as the  τε shews: not, as Grot., Bengel, al., δῶρα alone, and θυσ . ὑπὲρ ἁμ . together; nor, as Delitzsch, is ὑπέρ to be taken with προσφέρῃ . And the sentence ἵνα προσφ . κ . τ . λ . is not, as Thl., a mere epexegesis of τὰ πρὸς τὸν θεόν , but is intimately connected by the word ἁμαρτιῶν with what follows: see below.  ὑπέρ , i. e.  to atone for , = εἰς τὸ ἱλάσκεσθαι τὰς ἁμαρτίας τοῦ λαοῦ , ch. Hebrews 2:17 ; see also reff. No satisfactory distinction can be set up between  δῶρα and  θυσίας : properly speaking, the former would be  any manner of offerings , the latter  slain beasts only: but this usage is not observed in Scripture: see reff. Thl. says, κατὰ μὲν τὸν ἀκριβῆ λόγον διαφέρουσι , παρὰ δὲ τῇ γραφῇ ἀδιαφόρως κεῖνται ),