 7 ff .] The  sufferings of Christ are now adduced, as a portion of his δοξασθῆναι to be made High Priest. They were all in subjection to the will of the Father: they were all parts of his τελείωσις , by virtue of which He is now, in the fullest and most glorious sense, our High Priest. So that these verses are no digression, but stand directly in the course of the argument, as proving the proposition, οὐχ ἑαυτὸν ἐδόξασεν γενηθῆναι ἀρχιερέα . Part of this connexion is recognized by Bleek, but not all. He regards the verses as introduced to shew that Christ was never, not even in his deepest humiliation, severed from the Father, whose Son He was, and who subsequently, at his resurrection, appointed Him to his High Priesthood: thus missing the one link which binds this passage into the argument, viz. that this obedience and these sufferings were all  a part of His being glorified for his High Priestly office:  a part of that office itself , performed before He was perfected by entrance, through the veil of His flesh by death, into the most holy place. This mistake about the time of commencement of the High Priesthood of Christ has misled several of the Commentators throughout this part of the Epistle.
	 ὃς ἐν κ . τ . λ .] It will be best to mark at once what I believe to be the connexion of this much-disputed sentence, and then to justify each portion in detail afterwards.  Who in the days of his flesh, in that he offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears to Him that was able to save him from death, and was heard by reason of his reverent submission, though He was a son, learned, from the things which He suffered, his obedience, and being made perfect, became the cause of eternal salvation to all who obey Him, being addressed by God as High Priest after the order of Melchisedek . That is, being paraphrased, ‘who had a course of glorifying for the High Priest’s office to go through, not of his own choice, but appointed for Him by the Father, as is shewn by that sharp lesson of obedience (not as contrasted with disobedience, but as indicating a glorious degree of perfect obedience,  τὴν ὑπακ .), familiar to us all, which He, though God’s own Son, learned during the days of his flesh: when He cried to God with tears for deliverance from death, and was heard on account of His resignation to the Father’s will (“Not my will, but Thine be done”),’ &c. Then as to details:  ἐν ταῖς ἡμέραις τῆς σαρκὸς αὐτοῦ I understand as a general wide date for the incident which is about to be brought in, as contrasted with His present days of glorification in the Spirit.
	 προσφέρειν δέησιν is found in Achil. Tat. vii. 1 (Bl.), ὡς δὲ οὐκ ἔπειθεν .… δευτέραν αὐτῷ προσφέρει δέησιν , and Longin. Pastoral. ii. 23: Jos., B. J. iii. 8. 3, has προσφέρει εὐχήν .
	 ἱκετηρία is properly an adjective used of κλάδος , ῥάβδος , &c. held out by the ἱκέτης . So Philo, Legat. ad Caium, § 36, vol. ii. p. 586, γραφὴ δὲ μηνύσει μου τὴν δέησιν , ἣν ἀνθ ʼ ἱκετηρίας προτείνω . But it also was used as = ἱκεσία or ἱκετεία : so, joined as here with δέησις , by Isocr. de Pace 46, πολλὰς ἱκετηρίας καὶ δεήσεις : see reff. and more instances in Bleek.
	 πρὸς τὸν δυνάμ  . is to be taken with the substantives δεήσεις τε καὶ ἱκετ ., not with the verb προσενέγκας , in which case the words would most probably be placed after μετὰ κραυγ . ἰσχ . κ . δακρ ., next the verb.
	 σώζειν αὐτὸν ἐκ θανάτου is by Estius, Schulz, al. understood to mean, not as generally,  to rescue Him from death , but “  ut celeriter eriperetur a morte quam erat passurus : quod,” Estius adds, “factum est, quando a morte ad vitam immortalem resurrexit tertia die.” So also more recently Ebrard. But this is not only against the usage of σώζειν ἐκ θανάτου : cf. reff., and the examples given in Bl.: e. g. Od. δ . 755, ἡ γάρ κέν μιν ἔπειτα καὶ ἐκ θανάτοιο σαώσαι : Aristid. Plat. i. p. 90, ( ὁ κυβερνήτης ) σώζων ἐκ θανάτου καὶ οὗτος ἀνθρώπους κ . αὐτοὺς κ . χρήματα , but still more decidedly against the truth of the sacred narrative: “Father, if it be possible,  let this cup pass from me :” for we must of course assume, that in such a designation of the Father, the contents of the prayer made to Him are also indicated.
	The  μετὰ δακρύων is not distinctly asserted in the sacred narrative: but is a most obvious inference from what is there: cf. Matthew 26:37 [29] . Bl. has noticed that from the juxtaposition of  κραυγή and  εἰσακουσθείς , it is probable that the Writer may have had before his mind such passages from the Psalms as Psalms 21:2 , ὁ θεός μου , κεκράξομαι ἡμέρας πρός σε καὶ οὐκ εἰσακούσῃ : ib. Psa 21:24, καὶ ἐν τῷ κεκραγέναι με πρὸς αὐτὸν εἰσήκουσέ ( ἐπήκ . Α ) με : Psalms 114:1 ( Psa 116:1 ). I may remark, that there seems no reason for understanding the κραυγὴ ἰσχυρά and δάκρυα of any other time than the agony at Gethsemane, as some have done. This is adduced as the most illustrious instance of that learning obedience from suffering. Epiphanius reports that this  weeping of the Lord in His agony was once related in some texts of St. Luke: see note on Luke 22:43-44 .
	 [29] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 εἰσακουσθεὶς ἀπὸ τῆς εὐλαβείας is rendered in three different ways. 1. “  He was heard on account of His pious resignation .” 2. “  He was heard, and so delivered, from that which He feared .” 3. “  He was heard by Him who was His fear .” Of these, (3) may shortly be discussed. It is cited by Wolf, Curæ in loc., as the view of Albert Ehlers, and is justified by God being called “  the Fear of Isaac ,” Genesis 31:42 ; Genesis 31:53 . See also Isaiah 8:13 . But as Wolf answers, “Si Deum indicare voluisset Apostolus, procul dubio scripsisset, ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , vel ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , cum antea τοῦ δυναμένου σώζειν , i. e. Dei facta fuisset mentio.” And usage would be wholly against such a sense of εὐλάβεια . (2) has found a formidable phalanx of supporters. The old Latin versions, “exauditus a metu:” Ambrose on Psalms 61:0 . p. 957, “exauditus ab illo metu:” Calv., Beza, Schlichting, Grot., Gerhard, Erasm. Schmid, Jac. Cappell., Hammond, Limborch, Schöttgen, Wolf, Bengel, Wetst., Storr, Ernesti, Bretschn., Kuinoel, De Wette, Stuart, Tholuck, Ebrard, and many others. Of these, most understand  εὐλάβεια of  His own fear (abstr.), from which, by strengthening Him, God delivered Him: some, as Calv., Schlicht., Hamm., take it (concr.) of the  thing itself which He feared, viz. death: “ex eo quod timebat,” Calv. But neither can this be maintained. Bleek has most elaborately discussed the meanings of εὐλάβεια , and shewn, that however near it may seem to approach in some Greek sentences, to  fear , yet it is always the fear of caution or modesty, not of terror: and even could it be thus taken (which Delitzsch, though interpreting the passage as I have done below, yet maintains it may be, on the strength of such examples as Sir 41:3 , μὴ εὐλαβοῦ κρῖμα θανάτου ), it would not be agreeable either to the propriety of the passage to express that Christ was delivered from death in such a phrase, when σώζειν ἐκ θανάτου has immediately preceded, nor to its purpose, to predicate such a deliverance from death of Him at all, seeing that He did actually undergo that death which He feared. This would apply to the  concrete acceptation of εὐλάβεια : and the  abstract is precluded by the usage of the word. Besides which, the expression  εἰσηκούσθη ἀπό would be, if not altogether unprecedented, yet so harsh as to be exceedingly improbable. None of the precedents alleged for it apply. In Psalms 22:22 , “Thou hast heard me from among the horns of the unicorns,” the LXX (Psa 21:21) have κ . ἀπὸ κεράτων μονοκερώτων τὴν ταπείνωσίν μου , which is no example: in Job 35:12 , ἐκεῖ κεκράξονται καὶ οὐ μὴ εἰσακούσῃ καὶ (om. καί Α ) ἀπὸ ὕβρεως πονηρῶν , the ἀπό belongs to the former verb κεκράξονται . The only case of a pregnant construction at all similar, seems to be, Ps. 117:5, εἰσήκουσέ μου εἰς πλατυσμὸν ( κύριος ): but as Bl. remarks, it surely is no reason, because a  translator reproduces a Hebrew pregnancy, that a writer should have a far harsher construction of the same kind attributed to him when there is no such justifying reason. The other instances, from our Epistle, ch. Hebrews 10:22 , ῥεραντισμένοι … ἀπὸ συνειδήσεως πονηρᾶς , Hebrews 6:1 , are to no purpose, as the verbs there carry in them the idea of being cleansed, or of turning,  from something, and the prep. therefore naturally follows. It remains then to examine (1), against which it is urged by Beza, and even by Tholuck (but not in his last edn.), that  ἀπό will not bear the meaning ‘  on account of .’ It is surprising that a scholar should ever have made such an objection, in the face of the instances in the reff., to which many more might be added out of the classics from those given by Bleek. The objection which Tholuck still brings, that such an interpretation would require αὐτοῦ after τῆς εὐλαβ ., is equally futile, the unusual expression of the art. after a preposition carrying the full force of a possessive. On the other hand it must be urged, that this meaning, ‘  He was heard on account of His pious resignation ,’ as it is that given by all the Greek expositors, so is the only one which will satisfy the usage of εὐλάβεια . The account of the word, which I take mainly from Bleek, is this: it is derived from εὐλαβής , and that from εὖ and λαμβάνειν , denoting one who lays hold of any thing well, i. e. carefully, so as not to break or injure it; and is used of a man proceeding cautiously in his design, so as to avoid injury to himself or another. As such, it is opposed to θράσος by Demosth. 517. 21, κ . γὰρ ἐκ τούτου φανερὰ πᾶσιν ὑμῖν ἥ τε τῶν ἄλλων ἁπάντων ὑμῶν εὐλάβεια γενήσεται κ . τὸ τούτου θράσος . Thus again in Plut. Marc. 9, p. 252, τὸ θαῤῥαλέον αὐτοῦ κ . δραστήριον πρὸς τὴν ἐκείνου κεραννύντες κ . ἁρμόττοντες εὐλάβειαν κ . πρόνοιαν . And Polyb. iii. 105. 8, διὰ μὲν τὴν Μάρκου τόλμαν ἀπόλωλε τὰ ὅλα , διὰ δὲ τὴν εὐλάβειαν τοῦ Φαβίου σέσωσται καὶ πρὸ τοῦ καὶ νῦν . And hence the meaning sometimes approaches very near to  fear : but, as above observed, always the fear of great caution or great modesty, not that of terror in any case. So Liban. iv. 265 a, μεστός ἐστιν εὐλαβείας κ . δέδοικεν : Jos. Antt. vi. 9. 2, μὴ ταπεινὸν ἔστω φρόνημα μηδ ʼ εὐλαβές , ὦ βασιλεῦ . And in Antt. xi. 6. 9, Esther is said to have come in to the king μετὰ δέους , but he laid the sceptre on her neck, εὐλαβείας αὐτὴν ἀπολύων . So far is the word from representing the fear of terror, that it is expressly opposed to it: as e. g. by Demosth. 405. 19, τίνα δὲ οὗτοι μὲν ἄτολμον κ . δειλὸν πρὸς τοὺς ὄχλους φασὶν εἶναι , ἐγὼ δὲ εὐλαβῆ ; ἐμέ . Diog. Laert. says of Zen [30] , τὴν δ ʼ εὐλάβειαν ( ἐναντίαν φησὶν εἶναι τῷ φόβῳ ) οὖσαν εὔλογον ἔκκλισιν · φοβηθήσεσθαι μὲν γὰρ τὸν σοφὸν οὐδαμῶς , εὐλαβηθήσεσθαι δέ . See also in Bleek a remarkable extract from Plutarch, where he mentions εὐλάβεια being used by the Stoics as an euphemism for φόβος . From these meanings the transition was very easy to that cautious reverence with which the pious man approaches a Divine Being. So Plut. Camill., τὴν τοῦ Ἀλβίνου πρὸς τὸ θεῖον εὐλάβειαν κ . τιμήν : l, εὐλαβεῖσθαι θεόν : Philo, Quis Rer. Div. Hær. § 6, vol. i. p. 476, εὐλαβείᾳ τὸ θαῤῥοῦν ἀνακέκραται . τὸ μὲν γὰρ “ τί μοι δώσεις ( Gen 15:2 );” θάρσος ἐμφαίνει · τὸ δὲ “ ὦ δέσποτα ,” εὐλάβειαν : cf. also reff., especially ch. Hebrews 12:28 , the only other place where it is found in the N. T. And this religious sense certainly suits remarkably well in our passage. No term could more exactly express the reverent submission to His Heavenly Father’s will which is shewn in those words, “Not my will, but thine be done:” none the constant humbling of himself in comparison with the Father, and exalting Him in word and deed, of which our Saviour’s life is full. I have no hesitation therefore in adopting this rendering, and feeling entirely satisfied with it. Besides fulfilling the requisites of philology and of fact, it admirably suits the context here, where the appointment of Christ by the Father to his High Priesthood and the various steps by which that High Priesthood was perfected, are in question. As the ancient schol. says, εἰ καὶ χάριτι , φησί , πατρικῇ ὡς υἱὸς εἰσηκούσθη , ἀλλ ʼ ἀπὸ τῆς οἰκείας εὐλαβείας , εὐλαβείας γὰρ ἦν τὸ λέγειν Πλὴν οὐχ ὡς ἐγὼ θέλω , ἀλλ ʼ ὡς σύ .
	 [30] Zeno,  Bp. of Verona , 362 380
	The matter of fact represented by  εἰσακουσθείς may require some explanation. He  was heard , not in the sense of the cup passing away from Him, which indeed was not the prayer of his εὐλάβεια , but in strength being ministered to Him to do and to suffer that will of his Father, to fulfil which  was the prayer of his εὐλάβεια “Not my will, but thine be done.” And I have little doubt that the word immediately refers to the “angel from heaven, strengthening Him,” of Luke 22:43 . Calvin’s remarks (“Ita sæpe fit, ut hoc vel illud petamus, sed in alium finem: ipse vero Deus quod petieramus, eo modo quo petieramus, non concedens, interea modum invenit, quo nobis succurrat”), however true in the Christian life, do not apply here, because the real prayer of our Lord, as εὐλαβὴς πρὸς τὸν πατέρα , was granted in the very form in which it was expressed, not in another.
	 καίπερ ὢν υἱός ] This clause, according to all analogy of the use of καίπερ with a participle, is to be taken by itself, not with what follows. So καίπερ πολλὰ παθόντα , Od. η. 224; κοίπερ ο στέργων ὅμως , Æsch. Sept. c. Theb. 714: &c. Bleek, who adduces many more examples, doubts whether any authentic instance of the use of καίπερ with a finite verb can be produced (not Revelation 17:8 ; see text there): see also reff. Thus much being certain, the next question is, to what these words are to be applied. A threefold connexion is mentioned by Photius (in Œc.). The first alternative involves an inversion which would be unnatural in the last degree: ὃς ἐν τ . ἡμ . τῆς σαρκ . αὐτ ., καίπερ ὢν υἱός , δεήσεις κ . ἱκ . … προσενέγκας . The second is to take the words with the clause immediately preceding: εἰσηκούσθη , φησί , καίπερ ὢν υἱός , κ . μὴ δεόμενος εἰσακουσθῆναι . And so Thl. (Chrys. in one place, but see also below; Phot. prefers it among the three), al. And this doubtless is possible, both grammatically and contextually. For the  καίπερ ὢν υἱός would thus come in as an exceptional clause, not to εἰσακουσθείς , in which light Bleek, Lünem., al. object to it, seeing that his being a Son would be rather the reason why He should than why He should not be heard, but to the whole clause εἰσακ . ἀπὸ τῆς εὐλαβείας , though He was a Son, yet not this, but his εὐλάβεια , was the ground of his being heard: which gives an undoubted good sense. Not much dissimilar will be the sense given by the other and more general way: viz. to take the words with the following clause, ἔμαθεν ἀφ ʼ ὧν ἔπαθεν τὴν ὑπακοήν : although He was a Son, He learned his obedience, not from this relation, but from his sufferings. So Chrys. ( τί λέγεις ; ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ ἀπὸ εὐλαβείας ἠκούετο ; καὶ τί περὶ τῶν προφητῶν πλέον ἂν εἴποι τις ; ποία δὲ καὶ ἀκολουθία εἰπεῖν εἰσκουσθεὶς ἀπὸ τῆς εὐλαβείας , καὶ ἐπαγαγεῖν , καίπερ ὢν υἱὸς ἔμαθεν ἀφ ʼ ὧν ἔπαθε τὴν ὑπακοήν ; but see also above), Ambrose (Ep. 63. vol. iii. p. 1033: “et ex iis quæ passus est, quamvis esset filius Dei, discere videretur obedientiam:” and alibi), and almost all the moderns. And there can be little doubt that this yields the better sense, and points to the deeper truth. Christ was a Son: as a Son, He was ever obedient, and ever in union with his Father’s will; but  ἡ ὑπακοή ,  His special obedience, that course of submission by which He became perfected as our High Priest, was gone through  in Time , and matter of  acquirement for Him, and  practice , by suffering.
	The expression,  ἔμαθεν ἀφ  ʼ   ὧν ἔπαθεν , brings to mind a number of Greek sayings founded on the proverb, παθήματα , μαθήματα . So Herod. i. 207, of Crœsus, τὰ δέ μοι παθήματα , ἐόντα ἀχάριστα , μαθήματα γέγονεν : Æschyl. Agam. 177, τὸν πάθει μάθος θέντα , and a very long list of examples in Wetstein and Bleek. The ancients found this assertion startling, attributing too narrow a sense to our Lord’s παθήματα : so Thdrt., τὸ δὲ ἔμαθεν ἀφ ʼ ὧν ἔπαθε τὴν ὑπακοήν , ἡπερβολικῶς ὁ ἀπόστολος τέθεικε · τὴν γὰρ ὑπακοὴν οὐ μετὰ τὸ πάθος , ἀλλὰ πρὸ τοῦ πάθους ἀπεδείξατο . And Chrys., ὁ μέχρι θανάτου πρὸ τούτου ὑπακούσας ὡς πατρὶ νἱός , πῶς δὲ καὶ ὕστερον ἔμαθεν ; This indeed would be a difficulty, were the Writer speaking of the Passion only, in its stricter sense; but he is speaking, I take it, of that continuous course of new obedience entered on by new suffering, of which the prayer in Gethsemane furnishes indeed the most notable instance, but of which also almost every act of His life on earth was an example. Thl. is so scandalized by the whole passage as applied to Christ that he says, εἶδες πῶς διὰ τὴν τῶν ἀκροατῶν ὠφέλειαν οὕτω συγκατέβη Παῦλος , ὥστε καὶ ἄτοπά τινα λέγων φαίνεσθαι .
	Two mistakes must be avoided: 1. though He was  the Son, which I find in Craik’s new translation of the Epistle: cf. ch. Hebrews 3:5-6 , Μωυσῆς , ὡς θεράπων … χριστὸς , ὡς υἱός : and consider besides, that if we take from the simple predicative force of  υἱός , as a well-known relative, we take from the  καίπερ ὤν at the same time, by diminishing the general appreciation of the exceptional  καίπερ : and, 2. that of Whitby, that ἔμαθεν here means “  taught (  us ).” If such a meaning ever could be admitted, least of all could it, from the context, here, where the subject treated is entirely Christ Himself, in his completion as our High Priest, and not till this is finished does that which He became to others come into question.
	 τελειωθείς , see note on ch. Hebrews 2:10 ,  perfected , completed, brought to his goal of learning and suffering, through death: the time to which the word would apply is that of the Resurrection, when his triumph began: so our Lord Himself on the way to Emmaus, οὐχὶ ταῦτα ἔδει παθεῖν τὸν χριστόν , καὶ ( τελειωθείς would come in here) εἰσελθεῖν εἰς τὴν δόξαν αὐτοῦ ; Thdrt., τελείωσιν δὲ τὴν ἀνάστασιν κ . τὴν ἀθανασίαν ἐκάλεσε · τοῦτο γὰρ τῆς οἰκονομίας τὸ πέρας .
	 ἐγένετο , by means of that course which ended in His τελείωσις . In  πᾶσιν τοῖς ὑπακούουσιν αὐτῷ there is probably an allusion to the ὑπακοή above. As He obeyed the Father, so must we obey Him, if we would be brought to that σωτηρία αἰώνιος into which He has led the way. The expression is strictly parallel with οἱ πιστεύσαντες , ch. Hebrews 4:3 , and τοὺς προσερχομένους δι ʼ αὐτοῦ τῷ θεῷ , ch. Hebrews 7:25 . Some have thought that in  πᾶσιν , the Writer hints to his Jewish readers, that such salvation was not confined to them alone. But it hardly seems likely that such a by-purpose should lie in the word. This unlikelihood is increased if πᾶσιν (as it must do) begins, instead of closing the clause as in rec.  αὐτῷ is of course Christ.
	 αἴτιος εἶναι τινί τινος is good Greek, and often found: see examples in Bleek, e. g. Xen. Cyr. viii. 5. 2, πολλῶν κ . ἀγαθῶν αἴτιοι ἀλλήλοις ἔσεσθε : Diod. Sic. iv. 82, τοῖς ἄλλοις αἴτιος ἐγένετο τῆς σωτηρίας : and the same expression in Jos. Antt. iii. 3. 1; vii. 1. 1: Philo de Agric. § 22, vol. i. p. 315:De Vita Contempl. § 11, vol. ii. p. 485. See reff. also on σωτηρία αἰώνιος .
	The next clause,  προσαγορευθεὶς κ . τ . λ ., depends closely upon τελειωθείς κ . τ . λ . above, and belongs to the time of Christ’s exaltation, indicated by τελειωθείς : and therefore must not be divided by a colon, as done by Griesbach, Bengel, Matthäi, al., from the foregoing, nor supposed to refer to the whole from Hebrews 5:7 . As to the word itself, it refers to the passage of the Psalm above, and carries with it a slight causal force, ‘  being ,’ or ‘  inasmuch as He is , named.’  προσαγορεύω in this connexion has a force of solemnity and formal appellation: so, Xen. Cyr. vii. 2. 4, Crœsus says to Cyrus, χαῖρε ὦ δέσποτα · τοῦτο γὰρ ἡ τύχη καὶ ἔχειν .… δίδωσί σοι , καὶ ἐμοὶ προσαγορεύειν : Diod. Sic. i. 4, Γάϊος Ἰούλιος Καῖσαρ , ὁ διὰ τὰς πράξεις προσαγορευθεὶς θεός . See reff. 2 Macc., and many more examples in Bleek. So that it here implies, not ‘  appointed ’ or ‘  inaugurated ,’ but ‘  addressed as ,’ ‘  named ,’ it being of course implied that He was both appointed and inaugurated.