 12 .]  For though (or, ‘  when :’ but in the presence of διὰ τὸν χρόνον , which gives the temporal reference, it is perhaps better not to repeat it)  ye ought (see on Hebrews 5:3 , and ch. Heb 2:17 )  on account of the time (i. e. the length of time during which you have been believers: οὕτω δὲ δείκνυσιν ἐκ πολλοῦ πεπιστευκότας αὐτούς , Œc. Cf. Polyb. ii. 21. 2, οἱ μὲν αὐτόπται γεγονότες τῶν δεινῶν ἐκ τοῦ ζῆν ἐξεχώρησαν διὰ τὸν χρόνον , ἐπεγένοντο δὲ νέοι : Diod. Sic. i. 12, βραχὺ μετατιθείσης διὰ τὸν χρόνον τῆς λέξεως : ib. c. 27, κατέφθαρται διὰ τὸν χρόνον : and other examples in Bleek. So that it is not “  jamdudum ,” as Luther, al., nor “  after so long a time ( διὰ χρόνου ),” as Schulz: nor “  on account of the present time ( διὰ τὸν καιρόν ),” as proposed (not preferred, as Bl.) by Owen, and given by Braun: nor can we understand it, with a-Lapide, “pro longitudine temporis, quo tum in lege Mosi, quum in Christianismo estis eruditi.” On the evidence given by expressions of this kind as to the time of writing the Epistle, and the persons to whom it is addressed, see Prolegg.)  to be teachers, ye again have need that some one teach you (it is doubtful whether  τινα represent the accus. sing. masc. ( τινά ) or the accus. plur. neut. ( τίνα ). The latter has been taken by our E. V., after considerable authorities: e. g. the Syr.; the Latin attached to D, “iterum necesse est doceri nos, quæ sint,” &c. vulg.; Aug [31] Tract. 98 in Joann. (vol. iii. pt. ii.): and indeed most Commentators, including Grot., Wolf, Bengel, Kuin., De Wette, Tholuck, Delitzsch. But the other rendering has also ancient authority for it: Œc. says, πάλιν χρ . ἔχετε τοῦ διδάσκειν ὑμᾶς τινα . τί δὲ διδάσκειν ; τὰ στοιχεῖά φησι . And so Luth., Calv. (“ut quis vos doceat elementa”), al., and Lachmann, Bleek, Ebrard, Lünem. And indeed it is the only one which will fit either the context, or the construction strictly considered. The context: for it was not loss of power in them to distinguish between first elements and other portions of Christian doctrine, of which he complains, but ignorance altogether, and slowness of ear to receive divine knowledge: and they wanted  some one to begin again with them and teach them the very first elements. And so far from τινά , ‘  some one ,’ being, as Delitzsch most absurdly says, matt und nichtsfagend, it carries with it the fine keen edge of reproach; q. d. ‘to teach you what all know, and any can teach.’ Then again, had τινα been interrogative, we should have expected διδάσκεσθαι , or some personal pronoun before διδάσκειν . This is perhaps not altogether certain, in the face of οὐ χρείαν ἔχετε γράφειν , 1 Thessalonians 4:9 , where I have retained the rec. (as against the correction ἔχομεν , admitted by Lachmann) and defended it as a mixture of two constructions. Still we have no right to assume such an irregularity where the context manifestly admits the common construction. Cf. 1 Thessalonians 5:1 , οὐ χρείαν ἔχετε ὑμῖν γράφεσθαι : and reff. The acceptation of τοῦ διδάσκειν as a substantival infinitive (  of the teaching ) is precluded by ὑμᾶς following)  the rudiments (or ‘elements:’ see Gal 4:3 and note, and Ellicott there: the simple parts, out of which a body is compounded: Xen. Mem. ii. 1. 1, βούλει σκοπῶμεν , ἀρξάμενοι ἀπὸ τῆς τροφῆς ὥσπερ ἀπὸ τῶν στοιχείων : Galen, adv. Lycum, δῆλός ἐστι μηδὲ τὰ στοιχεῖα τῆς Ἱπποκράτους τέχνης ἐπιστάμενος : which are afterwards called αἱ συλλαβαὶ τῆς τέχνης , and τὰ πρῶτα τῆς τέχνης )  of the beginning (so “prima elementa,” Quintil. Instit. i. 1: Hor. Sat. i. 1. 26: “prima pueritiæ elementa,” Justin. Hist. vii. 5. The genitive specifies the elements, that they are not only such, but also belong to the  very beginning of divine knowledge)  of the oracles (  λόγιον , properly a diminutive from λόγος , is used both in classical and Hellenistic Greek for an  oracle , or a  divine utterance . Very numerous instances are given in Bleek from both sources: and such will occur at once to every scholar. See Herod. iv. 178: Thucyd. ii. 8: and reff. Here it betokens that Christian doctrine (cf. ch. Heb 6:1 ), which rests entirely on revelations from God: as Schlichting: “doctrinæ Christianæ, quæ nil nisi Dei eloquia et oracula continet”)  of God: and ye have become ( καὶ οὐκ εἶπε · χρείαν ἔχετε , ἀλλὰ γεγόνατε χρ . ἔχοντες · τουτέστιν ὑμεῖς ἠθελήσατε , ὑμεῖς ἑαυτοὺς εἰς τοῦτο κατεστήσατε , εἰς ταύτην τὴν χρείαν . Chrys.: and Œc., γεγόνατε ἐκ ῥᾳθυμίας , οὐκ ὄντες τοιοῦτοι : and Thl. even stronger, ἐκ προαιρέσεως τοιοῦτοι γεγονότες ) (  persons )  having need of milk, and not of solid food (see 1 Corinthians 3:2 . The similitude is very common with Philo: see extracts in Wetst. and Bleek. Arrian, Epictet. ii. 17, has the contrast as here, οὐ θέλεις ἤδη ὡς τὰ παιδία ἀπογαλακτισθῆναι , κ . ἅπτεσθαι τροφῆς στερεωτέρας . What is the milk in the Writer’s meaning, is plain from ch. Hebrews 6:1 , where he enumerates several portions of Christian doctrine as parts of ὁ τῆς ἀρχῆς τοῦ χριστοῦ λόγος . The Fathers for the most part take the στοιχεῖα and the γάλα to mean the doctrine of the incarnation: so Chrys., στοιχεῖα ἀρχῆς τὴν ἀνθρωπότητα φησίν . ὥσπερ γὰρ ἐπὶ τῶν ἔξωθεν γραμμάτων πρῶτον τὰ στοιχεῖα δεῖ μαθεῖν , σὕτω καὶ ἐπὶ τῶν θείων λόγων πρῶτον περὶ τῆς ἀνθρωπότητος δεῖ διδάσκεσθαι : and similarly Thl. and Œc. Primasius more explicitly: “Lac ergo simplicis doctrinæ est incarnatio filii Dei, passio, resurrectio illius, ascensio ad cœlos; solidus vero cibus perfecti sermonis est mysterium Trinitatis, quomodo tres sint in personis et unum in substantia Deitatis.” But nothing of this is found in the context: add to which, that the Writer has actually treated of the præ-existent state of Christ and of His incarnation, ch. Hebrews 1:2 . Thl. reckons the explanation about Melchisedek among the στοιχεῖα , not even to understanding which were they equal: and certainly this  might be so: but from the form of the contrast drawn, and from ch. Hebrews 6:1 , it is much more probable that the Writer regards that explanation as one of the more recondite things, and those enumerated ch. Hebrews 6:1 , as the first principles. But it does not thence follow that these στοιχεῖα are of less importance than those deeper mysteries: these are the foundations, without which no building whatever can be raised. This is well expressed by Limborch, as cited by Bleek: “Hæc itaque sublimior doctrina non vocatur solidior cibus quia ad fidem Christianam magis est necessaria quam principia illa religionis: nihil minus: illis enim ignoratis, modo principia religionis Christianæ quis solida fide amplectatur, potest esse Christianus: non autem est Christianus, nisi illa firma fide amplexus fuerit: sed eo solum respectu, quod faciant ad solidiorem doctrinæ Christi confirmationem: sicuti solidus cibus non præcise est necessarius ad vitæ conservationem, sed ad virium majorum quæ ad labores sustinendos requiruntur, acquisitionem. Idque potissimum locum habet in Hebræis, qui multum addicti allegoricis interpretationibus, et de legis suæ divinitate persuasi, valde in fide Christiana confirmari poterant dilucida et distincta applicatione typorum V. T. ad Christum ejusque pontificatum”).
	 [31]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	Heb 5:13 renders a reason for Hebrews 5:11-12 , and especially for δυσερμήνευτος . Having before stated that what he had to say would be hard for him to explain to them, and then that they were become persons needing milk and not solid food, he now proceeds to join these two positions together:  For every one who partakes of (in the sense of  has for his share , in ordinary feeding: not, partakes of in common with other things, for that adults do: see 1Co 10:21 )  milk, is unskilled in (  ἄπειρος , from πεῖρα , trial: opposed to ἔμπειρος , experienced: not to be confounded with another ἄπειρος , from πέρας : Etym. Mag., ἄπειρος , ὁ μὲν ἀμαθής , παρὰ τὸ μὴ ἔχειν πεῖραν · ὁ δέ , μέγας , παρὰ τὸ μὴ ἔχειν πέρας . It is of frequent use in the classics in this sense of unskilled: see numerous examples in Bleek: e. g. Plato, Rep. ix. p. 737, ἄπειροι ἀληθείας , and a passage not unlike this in its cast, Herodian v. 5. 1, αὐτὸς γὰρ ἦν νέος τε τὴν ἡλικίαν , πραγμάτων τε κ . παιδείας ἄπειρος )  the word of righteousness: for he is an infant (that is, ‘for every partaker of milk, in the metaphorical sense in which I just now used the word, i. e. every one who requires yet to be taught the first principles &c., is devoid of understanding in the word of righteousness, in, that is, the positions and arguments which treat of God’s salvation by Christ: for he is an infant: takes the same rank in spiritual understanding, that an infant does in worldly.’ Thus taken, I can see no difficulty such as Bleek represents in the contextual connexion. There is of course a mingling of the figure and the thing represented, which however is easy enough to any reader to whom both figure and thing are already familiar. But it is necessary to fix more satisfactorily the meaning of the somewhat obscure expression  λόγος δικαιοσύνης . Chrys. says, ἐσταῦθά μοι δοκεῖ καὶ βίον αἰνίττεσθαι · ὅπερ καὶ ὁ χριστὸς ἔλεγεν , Ἐὰν μὴ περισσεύσῃ ἡ δικαιοσύνη ὑμῶν πλέον κ . τ . λ . τοῦτο καὶ αὐτός φησιν · ἄπειρος λόγου δικαιοσύνης , τουτέστι , τῆς ἄνω φιλοσοφίας ἄπειρος , οὐ δύναται παραδέξασθαι βίον ἄκρον κ . ἠκριβωμένον . Similarly Thl., giving however the alternative that δικαιοσύνη may mean χριστὸς αὐτός . Œc. says, λόγον δέ δικαιοσύνης λέγει τὸν περὶ τῆς θεότητος τοῦ κυρίου . Thdrt., generally, τὰ τελειότερα δόγματα , Primasius, “Alienus est a discretione perfectæ justitiæ, quia nondum potest penetrare arcana mysteriorum, nec scit, ut expedit, discretionem facere inter bonum et malum.” And so a-Lapide, Bretschn., al. Others, as Beza, Pyle, Storr, Tholuck, al., take δικαιοσύνη of the doctrine of justification before God by faith in Christ: or, as Bengel and Cramer, justification and sanctification as well: uprightness of doctrine and practice. Calvin says, “justitiæ nomine perfectionem intelligens, de qua paulo post loquitur” (ch. Heb 6:1 ). Many others take λόγον δικαιοσύνης as = λόγου δικαίου : so Schlichting, Grot., Wahl, Kuinoel, al. Others again have appealed to the Heb. usage of צְדָקָה for ‘  truth ,’ and understood it “  verbum veritatis :” so, with minor differences, Michaelis, Zachariä, Dindorf. Bleek half adopts a hint given by Carpzov, who interprets it of the “doctrina de sacerdotio Jesu Christi Melchisedeciano, quæ dicitur λόγος δικαιοσύνης propterea quod Melchisedecus, vi nominis, βασιλεύς δικαιοσύνης vertitur, vii. 2, eaque appellatio ad Christum sacerdotem applicatur, cujus πρέπον fuit πληρῶσαι πᾶσαν δικαιοσύνην , Matthew 3:15 :” Bleek, however, not accepting the reference in this shape, supposes that δικαιοσύνη is here used as belonging to the whole subject to which Melchisedek, as the βασιλεὺς δικαιοσύνης , also belongs: and that the δικαιοσύνη is that righteousness of which the fulness dwells in Christ, but of which Melchisedek, by his very name, was a type. But to this De Wette justly answers, that it would be very unnatural, to find a reference to an expression which, where it occurs, is not, any more than its cognate βασιλεὺς εἰρήνης , followed up, and, so far from clearing this passage, itself needs explication. I incline more to Lünemann’s view of the meaning, based as it is on the requirements of the passage, in which the stress is not on λόγον δικαιοσύνης , but on ἄπειρος , and λόγ . δικ . follows as something of course and generally understood. Feeling this, he interprets it of the gospel in general: that λόγος of which the central point is, the righteousness which is of God. And he refers to 2 Corinthians 3:9 , ἡ διακονία τῆς δικαιοσύνης , and Hebrews 11:15 , διάκονοι δικαιοσύνης . This acceptation would not altogether preclude βασιλεὺς δικαιοσύνης falling under the same general head, and thus would bring the two expressions into union, though without any distinct reference from one to another.
	Delitzsch, whose commentary I have seen since writing the above, explains λόγ . δικ . “the capability to speak agreeably to righteousness” (  die Fahigkeit, gerechtig-keitsgemäss zu sprechen ), and takes the genitive as one of attribute. But I cannot see how the general context justifies this. It is not speaking, but apprehending, which is here surely required of the readers):