24. Saying, Let us alone—or
	rather, perhaps, "ah!" expressive of mingled astonishment
	and terror.
what have we to do with
	thee—an expression of frequent occurrence in the Old Testament
	(1 Kings 17:18; 2 Kings 3:13;
	2 Chronicles 35:21, c.). It denotes entire
	separation of interests:—that is, "Thou and we have
	nothing in common we want not Thee; what wouldst Thou with us?"
	For the analogous application of it by our Lord to His mother, see on
	2 Chronicles 35:21- :. 
	thou Jesus of
	Nazareth—"Jesus, Nazarene!" an epithet originally
	given to express contempt, but soon adopted as the current
	designation by those who held our Lord in honor (Luke 18:37;
	Mark 16:6; Acts 2:22).
	art thou come to destroy
	us?—In the case of the Gadarene demoniac the question was, "Art
	Thou come hither to torment us before the time?" (Acts 2:22- :). Themselves tormentors and destroyers of their victims,
	they discern in Jesus their own destined tormentor and destroyer,
	anticipating and dreading what they know and feel to be awaiting
	them! Conscious, too, that their power was but permitted and
	temporary, and perceiving in Him, perhaps, the woman's Seed that was
	to bruise the head and destroy the works of the devil, they regard
	His approach to them on this occasion as a signal to let go their
	grasp of this miserable victim. 
	I know thee who thou art, the
	Holy One of God—This and other even more glorious testimonies
	to our Lord were given, as we know, with no good will, but in hope
	that, by the acceptance of them, He might appear to the people to be
	in league with evil spirits—a calumny which His enemies were ready
	enough to throw out against Him. But a Wiser than either was here,
	who invariably rejected and silenced the testimonies that came to Him
	from beneath, and thus was able to rebut the imputations of His
	enemies against Him (Acts 2:22- :). The expression, "Holy One of God," seems
	evidently taken from that Messianic Psalm (Acts 2:22- :), in which He is styled "Thine Holy One."