Luke 18:8.  I say unto you.  Our Lord answers His own question.
	 He will avenge them speedily.  Not suddenly, but quickly. If Luke 18:7 be explained: Is it His way to delay in their case? then this is the expected negative reply. But the avenging belongs to the coming of the Son of man, which is still future after eighteen centuries. However long delayed in man’s estimation, the day of the Lord will ‘quickly’ come, as God regards it. Both ideas are ever conjoined in the New Testament to combine the lessons of patience and hope.
	 When the Son of man Cometh.  The second coming of Christ is evidently meant
	 Will he find faith on the earth?   It is not implied that there will be no faith at that time, but only that it is doubtful whether the faith spoken of will continue until that time. What faith does our Lord mean? If He means saving faith in Himself, then the question points not only to the speedy falling away of many who heard Him then, out also to the great apostasy which will precede His coming (2 Thessalonians 2:3). But it is more probable that He refers to the kind of faith set forth in the parable: faith which endures in importunate prayer. The question then implies that the trials of the faith and patience of the church during the Lord’s delay will be so great as to make it doubtful whether such importunity for the Lord’s return will be the rule in the day of His appearing. This view does not encourage the over-gloomy view that the day of Christ’s triumph will be when His people have become very few in number. On the other hand, it agrees with the representations repeatedly made, that the coming will be an unexpected one even to real believers. The special form of faith which will be lacking is faith in the return of the Lord as evidenced by importunate prayer for the hastening of that event.
	 Luke 18:9.  This parable.  The parable consists in this, that the two persons represent two classes.
	 To certain.  To them, not concerning them, hence they were probably not Pharisees.
	 Who trusted in themselves and set the rest at nought.  They were Pharisaical at heart, though not be longing to that party. They represent a numerous class. The setting the rest at nought is a consequence of self-righteousness.
	