For the which cause I also suffer these things - That is, I suffer on account of my purpose to carry the gospel to the Gentiles; see the notes at Colossians 1:24.Nevertheless I am not ashamed - compare the notes at Romans 1:16.For I know whom I have believed - Margin, “trusted.” The idea is, that he understood the character of that Redeemer to whom he had committed his eternal interests, and knew that he had no reason to be ashamed of confiding in him. He was able to keep all that he had intrusted to his care, and would not suffer him to be lost; see Isaiah 28:16.And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him - That is, the soul, with all its immortal interests. A man has nothing of higher value to intrust to another than the interests of his soul, and there is no other act of confidence like that in which he intrusts the keeping of that soul to the Son of God. Hence, learn: (1) That religion consists in committing the soul to the care of the Lord Jesus; because: (2) That the soul is a great and invaluable treasure which is committed to him. (3) It is done by the true Christian with the most entire confidence, so that the mind is at rest. The grounds of this confidence are: (a)What is said of the mighty power of the Saviour; (b)His promises that he will keep all who confide in him (compare the notes at John 10:27-29; (c)Experience - the fact that those who have trusted in him have found that he is able to keep them. (4) This act of committing the soul, with all its interests, to the Saviour, is the true source of peace in the trials of life. This is so because: (a)Having done this, we feel that our great interests are secure. If the soul is safe, why need we be disturbed by the loss of health, or property, or other temporal comforts? Those are secondary things. A man who is shipwrecked, and who sees his son or daughter safe with him on the shore, will be little concerned that a casket of jewels fell overboard - however valuable it might be:Against that day - The day of judgment - called “that day,” without anything further to designate it, because it is the great day; “the day for which all others days were made.” It seems to have been so much the object of thought and conversation among the early Christians, that the apostle supposed that he would be understood by merely referring to it as “that day;” that is, the day which they were always preaching about, and talking about, and thinking about.