 1, 2. ] We go back again now to the birth of John, or shortly after it.
	In annotating on these verses, I will first state the difficulty in which they appear to be involved, then the remarkable way in which a solution has been found.
	The assertion in these verses is this  that a decree went forth , &c.,  and that this enrolment first took place when Cyrenius (Quirinus, see below)  was governor of Syria . It would then appear, either that  this very enrolment took place under Quirinus , or that  the first did so, and this was subsequent to it. Now  both of these senses formerly seemed to be  inadmissible . For Quirinus was not known to have been governor of Syria till the year 758 U.C., after the banishment of Archelaus, and the addition of his territory to the province of Syria.
	τῆς δὲ Ἀρχ . χώρας ὑποτελοῦς προσνεμηθείσης τῇ Σύρων , πέμπεται Κυρήνιος ὑπὸ Καίσαρος , ἀνὴρ ὑπατικός , ἀποτιμησόμενος τὰ ἐν Συρίᾳ , καὶ τὸν Ἀρχελάου ἀποδωσόμενος οἶκον . Jos. Antt. xvii. 13. 5. And the birth of our Lord occurred  at least eight years before this , previous to Herod’s death, and when  Sentius Saturninus was governor of Syria . But in a Commentatio of A. W. Zumpt of Berlin (the nephew of the distinguished grammarian of that name),  De Syria Romanorum provincia ab Cœsare Augusto ad T. Vespasianum , he makes it highly probable that Quirinus was TWICE governor of Syria. The substance of his researches is as follows: In 9 B.C. Sentius Saturninus succeeded M. Titius in the province of Syria, and governed it three years. He was succeeded by T. Quintilius Varus (Jos. Antt. xvii. 5. 2), who, as it appears, remained governor up to the end of 4 B.C. Thenceforward we lose sight of him till he is appointed to the command in Germany, in which he lost his life in A.D. 7. We also lose sight of the governors of Syria till the appointment of P. Sulpicius Quirinus, in A.D. 6. Now from the maxim acted on by Augustus (Dio Cass. Leviticus 23:0 ), that none should hold an imperial province for less than three or more than five years, Varus cannot have been governor of Syria during the twelve years from B.C. 6 to A.D. 6. Who then were the missing governors? One of them has been found, L. Volusius Saturninus, whose name occurs as “legatus Syriae” on a coin of Antioch, A.D. 4 or 5. But his proconsulate will not fill the whole time, and one or two governors must be supplied between Varus, ending 4 B.C., and Volusius, 4 or 5 A.D. Just in that interval falls the census, of which it is said in the text, that it πρώτη ἐγένετο ἡγεμονεύοντος τῆς Συρίας Κυρηνίου . Could Quirinus have been governor at any such time? From Jan. to Aug [17] B.C. 12 he was consul. Soon after that he triumphed over the Homonadenses (“mox expugnatis per Ciliciam Homonadensium castellis insignia triumphi adeptus,” Tac. Ann. iii. 48). Now Zumpt applies the exhaustive process to the provinces which could by any possibility have been under Quirinus at this time, and eliminates from the enquiry Asia, Pontus and Bithynia, and Galatia. Cilicia only remains. But at this time, as he shews, that province had been reduced by successive diminutions, had been separated (Dio Cass. liv. 4) from Cyprus, and, as is shewn by the history of the misconduct of Piso soon afterwards, who was charged with having, as ex-governor of Syria, attempted “repetere provinciam armis” (Tac. Ann. iii. 12), because he had attacked Celenderis, a fort in Cilicia (ib. ii. 78 80), attached to the province of Syria. This Zumpt also confirms by the accounts in Tacitus (Ann. vi. 41; xii. 55) of the Clitæ, a seditious tribe of Cilicia Aspera, who on two occasions were repressed by troops sent by the governors of Syria. Quirinus then appears to have been governor of Syria at some time during this interval. But at  what time? We find him in the East (Tac. Ann. iii. 48), as “datus rector C. Cæsari Armeniam obtinenti;” and this cannot have been during his well-known governorship of Syria, which began in A.D. 6; for Caius Cæsar died in A.D. 4. Zumpt, by arguments too long to be reproduced here, but very striking and satisfactory, fixes the time of his first governorship at from B.C. 4 to B.C. 1, when he was succeeded by M. Lollius. It is true this does not quite remove our difficulty. But it brings it within such narrow limits, that any slight error in calculation, or even the latitude allowed by the words πρώτη ἐγένετο might well cover it. I may mention it as remarkable, that Justin Martyr three times distinctly asserts that  our Lord was born under Quirinus , and  appeals to the register then made , as if from it the fact might, if necessary, be confirmed: Apol. i. 34, p. 65; 46, p. 71: Dial. 78, p. 175.
	 [17]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	We conclude then, that an ἀπογραφή or enrolment of names with a view to ascertain the population of the empire,  was commanded and put in force at this time , unaccompanied (probably) by any payment of money. Mr. Greswell (vol. i. p. 511) cites a passage of Suidas ὅτι Αὔγουστος Καῖσαρ , δόξαν αὐτῷ πάντας τοὺς οἰκήτορας Ῥωμαίων (?) κατὰ πρόσωπον ἀριθμεῖ , βουλόμενος γνῶναι πόσον ἐστὶ πλῆθος : and has made it probable that, notwithstanding a difficulty in the numbers, this was a census  of the empire , and not of the city. We know (see Tacitus, Ann. i. 11: Sueton. Aug. 28, 101: Dio liii. 30; lvi. 33) that Augustus drew up a  rationarium or  breviarium totius imperii , which took many years to arrange and complete, and of which the enrolment of the inhabitants of the provinces would naturally form a part. Of the data for this compilation, the enrolment in our text might be one.
	That Judæa  was not a Roman province at this time , is no objection to our text; for the breviarium of Augustus contained the ‘regna’ of the Roman empire, as well as the ‘provincias.’
	For a statement of the case and its difficulties as they stood before Zumpt’s discovery, see Wieseler, Chronol. Synops. i. 73 122; and a good summary and criticism of the various hypotheses in Winer’s Realwörterbuch, edn. 3, art. Quirinus: and a new and curious hypothesis in Bp. Wordsw. h. l., who inclines to reject the above solution. In Dio Cassius, where we might expect to find information, this portion of the reign of Augustus is apparently defective.
	 Κυρην  . ] P. Sulpicius  Quirinus (not  Quirinius , for Κυρήνιος is the Greek form of Quirinus, Meyer ii. 222: see Sueton. Tib. 49: Tacit. Ann. iii. 48, where however Beck reads Quirinius).