 52. ]  ἡλικ  ., probably not only ‘  stature ’ (as in ch. Luk 19:3 ), but  age (ref. Matt.), which comprehends the other: so that  σοφ  .   κ  .   ἡλ  . would be  wisdom, as well as age.
	During these eighteen mysterious years we may, by the light of what is here revealed, view the holy Child advancing onward to that fulness of wisdom and divine approval which was indicated at His Baptism, by ἐν σοὶ εὐδόκησα . We are apt to forget, that it was  during this time that  much of the great work of the second Adam was done . The growing up through infancy, childhood, youth, manhood, from grace to grace, holiness to holiness, in subjection, self-denial, and love,  without one polluting touch of sin , this it was which, consummated by the three years of active ministry, by the Passion, and by the Cross, constituted “  the obedience of one man ,” by which many were made righteous. We must fully appreciate the words of this verse, in order to think rightly of Christ. He had emptied Himself of His glory: His infancy and childhood were no  mere pretence , but the Divine personality was in Him carried through these states of weakness and inexperience, and gathered round itself the ordinary accessions and experiences of the sons of men. All the time, the consciousness of his mission on earth was ripening; ‘the things heard of the Father’ ( Joh 15:15 ) were continually imparted to Him; the Spirit, which was not given by measure to Him, was abiding more and more upon Him; till the day when He was fully ripe for his official manifestation, that He might be offered to his own, to receive or reject Him, and then the Spirit led Him up to commence his conflict with the enemy. As yet, He was in favour with man also: the world had not yet begun to hate Him; but we cannot tell how soon this feeling towards Him was changed, for He alleges ( Joh 7:7 ), “Me the world hateth, because I testify of it that its deeds are evil;” and we can hardly conceive such testimony, in the years of gathering vigour and zeal, long withheld. The incident of ch. Luk 4:28-29 can scarcely have arisen  only from the anger of the moment.