 48 50. ] The salient point of this narrative appears to lie in  ὁ πατήρ σου contrasted with  τοῦ πατρός μου  . This was the first time that those wonderful words of self-consciousness had been heard from the holy Child when He began to be “a son of the law,” He first calls HIM His Father, Who gave Him the work to do on earth, of perfectly keeping that Law.
	 Every word of these verses is of the first importance to modern combatants for sound doctrine . Let the adversaries answer us, why should his  mother here have spoken and not Joseph, unless there were some more than usual reason for her being put forward rather than his reputed father? Again, let the mythical school of Strauss give us a reason, why an incident altogether (  in their view ) so derogatory to the character of the subject of it, should have been inserted, if the myths arose out of  an exaggerated estimate of the dignity of that character?
	 ὁ πατ  .   σου ] Then up to this time Joseph had been so called by the holy Child Himself: but from this time,  never . Such words are not chance; had Mary said ἡμεῖς , the strong contrast with what follows could not have been brought out.
	 τί ὅτι ἐζ  .; ]  τί  ,   ὅτι  … what (reason) is there, that …: see reff.
	This is no  reproachful question. It is asked in all the simplicity and boldness of holy childhood … ‘did ye not know?’ … it appeared as if that conviction, the expression of which now first breaks forth from HIM, must have been a matter known to them before.
	 δεῖ ] This is that δεῖ so often used by our Lord of His  appointed and undertaken course . Analogous to this first utterance of His conviction, is the dawn, amongst  ourselves , of the  principle of duty in the youthful and well-trained spirit about this same age, this ‘earing time’ of human progress: see below on Luke 2:52 .
	 ἐν τοῖς τοῦ π  . ] Primarily,  in the  house  of my Father (so in Sir 42:10 , ἐν τοῖς πατρικοῖς αὐτῆς : Theocr. ii. 76, τὰ Λύκωνος : Demosth. p. 1071, τὰ τοῦ ἀποθανόντος : see Lobeck on Phryn. p. 100); but we must not exclude the wider sense, which embraces  all places and employments of my Father’s (cf. ἐν τούτοις ἴσθι , 1Ti 4:15 ). The best rendering would perhaps be,  among my Father’s matters. The employment in which he was found,  learning the word of God , would naturally be one of these.
	 αὐτ  .   οὐ συν  . ] Both Joseph and His mother knew  in some sense, Who He was: but were not prepared to hear  so direct an appeal to God as His Father: understood not the deeper sense of these wonderful words. Still ( Luk 2:51 ) they appear to have awakened in the mind of His mother a remembrance of κληθήσεται υἱὸς θεοῦ , ch. Luke 1:35 . And probably, as Stier remarks ( Luk 1:5 ), the unfolding of His childhood had been so gradual and natural, that even they had not been forcibly reminded by any strong individual notes, of that which He was, and which now shewed itself.
	It is a remarkable instance of the blindness of the rationalistic Commentators to the richness and depth of Scripture narrative, that Meyer holds this οὐ συνῆκαν to be altogether inconceivable as coming after the angelic announcement to Mary. Can he suppose that she συνῆκεν that announcement itself? De Wette has given the right interpretation, fie verftanden nicht den tiefern Sinn, and refers to chap. Luke 18:34 : so also Olsh., Ebrard.