37.We do more than conquer, etc.; that is, we always struggle and emerge. I have retained the word used by Paul, (276) though not commonly used by the Latins. It indeed sometimes happens that the faithful seem to succumb and to lie forlorn; and thus the Lord not only tries, but also humbles them. This issue is however given to them, — that they obtain the victory. That they might at the same time remember whence this invincible power proceeds, he again repeats what he had said before: for he not only teaches us that God, because he loves us, supports us by his hand; but he also confirms the same truth by mentioning the love of Christ. (277) And this one sentence sufficiently proves, that the Apostle speaks not here of the fervency of that love which we have towards God, but of the paternal kindness of God and of Christ towards us, the assurance of which, being thoroughly fixed in our hearts, will always draw us from the gates of hell into the light of life, and will sufficiently avail for our support. (276) “Supervincimus“ — ὑπερνικῶμεν; [Beza ] ’s version is, amplius quam victores sumus;” [Macknight ] ’s, “we do more than overcome;” [Schleusner ] gives this as one of his explanations, “plenissime vincimus — we most fully overcome.” Paul commonly usesὑπὲρ in an enhansive sense; so the version may be, “we abundantly overcome,” as though he said, “We have strength given us which far exceeds the power of evils.” Some say that the faithful abundantly overcome, because they sustain no real loss, but like silver in the furnace, they lose only their dross; and not only so, but they also carry, as it were from the field of battle, chapter spoils — the fruits of holiness and righteousness. Hebrews 12:10. It is further said, that the victory will be this, — that Christ, who has loved them, will raise them from death and adorn them with that glory, with which all the evils of this life are not worthy to be compared. [Beza ] says, “Not only we are not broken down by so many evils nor despond, but we even glory in the cross.” — Ed. (277) “Per eum qui dilexit nos— διὰ του ἀγαπήσαντος ἡμᾶς — through him who has loved us.” The aorist participle, says [Wolfius ], extends to every time, “who has loved and loves and will love us.” From the fact that believers are overcome by no calamities, he draws the inference, that God’s love is constant and most effectual, so that he is present with the distressed to give them courage, to strengthen their patience, and to moderate their calamities. See 1 Peter 5:10. — Ed. 