21. But to—rather, "with
	regard to" 
	Israel he saith, All day—"All
	the day" 
	long I have stretched out my
	hands—"did I stretch forth" 
	my hands—the attitude
	of gracious entreaty. 
	unto a disobedient and
	gainsaying people—These words, which immediately follow the
	announcement just quoted of the calling of the Gentiles, were enough
	to forewarn the Jews both of God's purpose to eject them from their
	privileges, in favor of the Gentiles, and of the cause of it on their
	own part. 
	Note, (1) Mere sincerity,
	and even earnestness in religion—though it may be some ground of
	hope for a merciful recovery from error—is no excuse, and will not
	compensate, for the deliberate rejection of saving truth, when in the
	providence of God presented for acceptance ( :-; and see on Romans 9:7,
	Note 7). (2) The true cause of such rejection of saving truth,
	by the otherwise sincere, is the prepossession of the mind by some
	false notions of its own. So long as the Jews "sought to set up
	their own righteousness," it was in the nature of things
	impossible that they should "submit themselves to the
	righteousness of God"; the one of these two methods of
	acceptance being in the teeth of the other (Romans 9:7- :). (3) The essential terms of salvation have in every age
	been the same: "Whosoever will" is invited to "take of
	the water of life freely," Romans 9:7- : (Romans 10:13). (4) How
	will the remembrance of the simplicity, reasonableness, and absolute
	freeness of God's plan of salvation overwhelm those that perish from
	under the sound of it (Romans 10:13- :). (5) How piercingly and perpetually should that
	question—"HOW SHALL THEY
	HEAR WITHOUT A PREACHER?"—sound in the ears of all
	churches, as but the apostolic echo of their Lord's parting
	injunction, "PREACH THE
	GOSPEL TO EVERY CREATURE"
	(Mark 16:15), and how far below
	the proper standard of love, zeal, and self-sacrifice must the
	churches as yet be, when with so plenteous a harvest the laborers are
	yet so few (Matthew 9:37; Matthew 9:38),
	and that cry from the lips of pardoned, gifted, consecrated men—"Here
	am I, send me" (Isaiah 6:8),
	is not heard everywhere (Romans 10:14;
	Romans 10:15)! (6) The blessing of a
	covenant relation to God is the irrevocable privilege of no people
	and no Church; it can be preserved only by fidelity, on our part, to
	the covenant itself (Romans 10:19).
	(7) God is often found by those who apparently are the farthest from
	Him, while He remains undiscovered by those who think themselves the
	nearest (Romans 10:20; Romans 10:21).
	(8) God's dealings even with reprobate sinners are full of tenderness
	and compassion; all the day long extending the arms of His mercy even
	to the disobedient and gainsaying. This will be felt and acknowledged
	at last by all who perish, to the glory of God's forbearance and to
	their own confusion (Romans 10:21).