20. Hymenaeus—There is no
	difficulty in supposing him to be the Hymenæus of  :-. Though "delivered over to Satan" (the lord of all
	outside the Church, Acts 26:18,
	and the executor of wrath, when judicially allowed by God, on the
	disobedient, 1 Corinthians 5:5; 2 Corinthians 12:7),
	he probably was restored to the Church subsequently, and again
	troubled it. Paul, as an apostle, though distant at Rome pronounced
	the sentence to be executed at Ephesus, involving, probably, the
	excommunication of the offenders (Matthew 18:17;
	Matthew 18:18). The sentence operated
	not only spiritually, but also physically, sickness, or some such
	visitation of God, falling on the person excommunicated, in order to
	bring him to repentance and salvation. Alexander here is probably
	"the coppersmith" who did Paul "much evil" when
	the latter visited Ephesus. The "delivering him to Satan"
	was probably the consequence of his withstanding the apostle
	(2 Timothy 4:14; 2 Timothy 4:15);
	as the same sentence on Hymenæus was the consequence of "saying
	that the resurrection is past already" (2 Timothy 4:15- :; his putting away good conscience, naturally
	producing shipwreck concerning FAITH,
	1 Timothy 1:19. If one's religion
	better not his morals, his moral deficiencies will corrupt his
	religion. The rain which falls pure from heaven will not continue
	pure if it be received in an unclean vessel [ARCHBISHOP
	WHATELY]). It is possible
	that he is the Alexander, then a Jew, put forward by the Jews,
	doubtless against Paul, at the riot in Ephesus (1 Timothy 1:19- :). 
	that they may—not
	"might"; implying that the effect still continues—the
	sentence is as yet unremoved. 
	learn—Greek, "be
	disciplined," namely, by chastisement and suffering. 
	blaspheme—the name of
	God and Christ, by doings and teachings unworthy of their Christian
	profession (Romans 2:23; Romans 2:24;
	James 2:7). Though the apostles had
	the power of excommunication, accompanied with bodily inflictions,
	miraculously sent (2 Corinthians 10:8),
	it does not follow that fallible ministers now have any power, save
	that of excluding from church fellowship notorious bad livers.