13. Who was before—Greek,
	"Formerly being a blasphemer." "Notwithstanding
	that I was before a blasphemer," c. (Acts 26:9
Acts 26:11). 
	persecutor— (Acts 26:11- :). 
	injurious—Greek,
	"insulter"; one who acts injuriously from arrogant contempt
	of others. Translate, Romans 1:30,
	"despiteful." One who added insult to injury. BENGEL
	translates, "a despiser." I prefer the idea, contumelious
	to others [WAHL].
	Still I agree with BENGEL
	that "blasphemer" is against God, "persecutor,"
	against holy men, and "insolently injurious"
	includes, with the idea of injuring others, that of insolent
	"uppishness" [DONALDSON]
	in relation to one's self. This threefold relation to God, to
	one's neighbor, and to one's self, occurs often in this Epistle
	(1 Timothy 1:5; 1 Timothy 1:9;
	1 Timothy 1:14; Titus 2:12).
	I obtained mercy—God's
	mercy, and Paul's want of it, stand in sharp contrast [ELLICOTT];
	Greek, "I was made the object of mercy." The sense
	of mercy was perpetual in the mind of the apostle (compare Note,
	see on 1 Timothy 1:2). Those who have
	felt mercy can best have mercy on those out of the way (Hebrews 5:2;
	Hebrews 5:3). 
	because I did it
	ignorantly—Ignorance does not in itself deserve pardon;
	but it is a less culpable cause of unbelief than pride and wilful
	hardening of one's self against the truth (John 9:41;
	Acts 26:9). Hence it is Christ's
	plea of intercession for His murderers (Acts 26:9- :); and it is made by the apostles a mitigating circumstance
	in the Jews' sin, and one giving a hope of a door of repentance
	(Acts 3:17; Romans 10:2).
	The "because," c., does not imply that ignorance was a
	sufficient reason for mercy being bestowed but shows how it
	was possible that such a sinner could obtain mercy. The positive
	ground of mercy being shown to him, lies solely in the compassion of
	God (Titus 3:5). The ground of the
	ignorance lies in the unbelief, which implies that this
	ignorance is not unaccompanied with guilt. But there is a great
	difference between his honest zeal for the law, and a wilful striving
	against the Spirit of God (Matthew 12:24-32;
	Luke 11:52) [WIESINGER].