 28 .]  Wherefore (  διό gathers its inference, not from the whole preceding paragraph, but from the yet once more shaking and consequent removing of earthly things before those things which shall remain)  receiving as we do a kingdom which cannot be shaken (the pres. part., with the slightly ratiocinative force.  παραλαμβάνοντες , not, as Calvin, “Modo fide ingrediamur in Christi regnum;” and so Schlichting, Limborch, Bengel, Semler; nor does the participial clause belong to the exhortation: but it indicates matter of fact, from which the exhortation sets out, and means (as in Daniel 7:18 , καὶ παραλήψονται τὴν βασιλείαν ἅγιοι ὑψίστου , which probably was in the Writer’s mind, and in other reff.) being partakers of, coming into possession of, βας . or ἀρχὴν παραλαμβάνειν , ‘regnum capessere.’ The participle then will be descriptive of our Christian state of privilege and expectation: proleptically designating us as in possession of that, whose firstfruits and foretastes we do actually possess),  let us have thankfulness ( τουτέστιν , εὐχαιστῶμεν τῷ θεῷ , Chrys.: τουτέστι μὴ ἀλγωμεν μηδὲ δυσπετῶμεν , ἀλλ ʼ εὐχαριστῶμεν τῷ τοιαῦτα καὶ ἤδη δόντι καὶ μελλοντι δώσειν , Thl. And so Elsner, Wolf, Bengel, Böhme, Kuinoel, Bleek, De Wette, Lünemann, Ebrard, Delitzsch. Others render, “let us hold fast grace.” So Syr., Beza, Jac. Cappell., Est., Schlichting, Grot., al. But this is impossible: ἔχωμεν would be κατέχωμεν (ch. Hebrews 3:6 ; Hebrews 3:14 ; Heb 10:23 ) or κρατῶμεν (ch. Heb 4:14 ), and the words would probably be in inverted order; besides that χάριν would hardly be anarthrous. On the sense see Psalms 50:23 , “whose offereth me thanks and praise, he honoureth me;” and on χάριν ἔχειν , besides reff., Jos. Antt. vii. 9. 4: Polyb. v. 104. 1: Xen. Mem. i. 2. 7; ii. 6. 21; iii. 11. 2, and many other examples in Bleek),  by which (thankfulness)  let us serve (the indicative readings, ἔχομεν and λατρεύομεν , are weakly supported, and do not suit the sense nor the inferential διό . And  λατρεύωμεν cannot be taken, as in E. V., “by which  we may serve ,” but must be hortatory like the other)  God well-pleasingly (the dative  τῷ θεῷ belongs to the verb, not to εὐαρέστως as Valcknaer)  with reverent submission and fear (see on ch. Heb 5:7 for εὐλάβεια . The rec. reading has  against it, 1. the frequent conjunction in ordinary Greek of αἰδώς and εὐλάβεια , of which Bleek gives many examples, and, 2. the fact that δέος occurs no where else in the N. T. or LXX).