 25 .] This voice of the blood of sprinkling, just mentioned, leads naturally to the  caution not to despise that voice, nor put it by as they of old did the φωνὴ ῥνμάτων  from Sinai .  Take heed (more forcible without any inferential particle such as οὖν )  that ye decline not (see above on Heb 12:19 )  him that speaketh (i. e. God in Christ, see below).  For if they did not escape (how? in one of two senses: either, 1. they did not escape hearing the voice on account of this their παραίτησις : or, 2., which seems more probable, they did not escape God’s vengeance in punishment: the Writer taking this their παραίτησις of the divine voice as a sort of sample of their disobedient and unbelieving spirit),  declining as they did (not ‘who declined,’ οἱ παραιτ .)  him who spoke (  χρηματίζειν , see on ch. Hebrews 8:5 , of an oracular command given by the Deity: and here the χρηματίζων is God, see below)  on earth (on Mount Sinai. The construction is a trajection not unusual with our Writer: cf. ch. Hebrews 9:15-16 , and Heb 12:11 ),  much more we (shall not escape), who are turning away from (  ἀποστρεφόμενοι , ‘  aversantes :’ so we have an accusative after ἐκστῆναι , ὑπεκστῆναι , ὑπεκτρέπεσθαι , ἐκτρέπεσθαι , ἀφίστασθαι , &c. See Kühner, § 551, Anm. 3. Cf. ἐξαναχωρεῖν τὰ εἰρημένα , Thuc. iv. 28)  him (who χρηματίζει )  from (the)  heavens (we now come to the somewhat difficult question, the answer to which we have taken for granted in the rendering of this verse: viz.  who are intended by the various objects, τὸν λαλοῦντα , τὸν ἐπὶ γῆς χρηματίζοντα , τὸν ἀπ ʼ οὐρανῶν . Let us take the second of these first, as furnishing the key to the others. τίνα λέγει ; (says Chrys.) ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ , Μωυσῆν . And so Œc., Carpzov, al. But this cannot well be. For παραιτησάμενοι manifestly refers back to Hebrews 12:19 ; where it was not Moses, but God, whom they παρῃτήσαντο . It must be laid down then as certain, that ὁ ἐπὶ γῆς χρηματίζων is God. Then if so, who is ὁ ἀπ ʼ οὐρανῶν , or in other words who is ὁ λαλῶν , for these two are manifestly the same? Clearly, not Jesus: for by οὗ ἡ φωνή , which follows, the voice of this same speaker shook the earth at the giving of the law: and it can by no ingenuity be pretended, that the terrors of the law proceeded from the Son of God; especially in the face of the contrast drawn here, and in ch. Hebrews 2:2 ff. And it would be against all accuracy and decorum in divine things, to pass from the speaking of the God of Israel to that of our Lord Jesus Christ in the way of climax as is here done, with πολὺ μᾶλλον , ‘much more shall we not escape.’ Add to which, that, if Christ is to be understood as the subject of Hebrews 12:26 ff., we shall have Him uttering the prophetic words ἔτι ἅπαξ κ . τ . λ ., whereas both from our Writer’s habit of quoting prophecy (cf. ch. Hebrews 1:1 ; Hebrews 4:7 ; Hebrews 6:13 ; Hebrews 8:8 ; Heb 11:11 ) and from the context of the prophecy itself, they must be attributed to the Father. How then are these difficulties to be got over? Simply by taking as above, the speaker in both cases to be GOD: in the first, as speaking from Mount Sinai by His Angels: in the second, as speaking from His heavenly throne through His exalted Son. Thus it is true we lie open to one objection, viz. that the giving of the law is ever regarded in the O. T. as a speaking from heaven: so Exodus 20:22 , ὑμεῖς ἑωράκατε , ὅτι ἐκ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ λελάληκα ὑμῖν : cf. Deuteronomy 4:36 ; Nehemiah 9:13 . But this objection, though at first sight weighty, is by no means decisive. The οὐρανός spoken of is surely nothing but the material heaven, as apparent to the Israelites in the clouds and darkness which rested on Sinai, and totally distinct from the οὐρανός here, the site of our blessed Lord’s glorification, who is spoken of, ch. Hebrews 4:14 , as διεληλυθὼς τοὺς οὐρανούς . Thus the words have been explained from early times: e. g. by Theodoret ( παρακελεύεται αὐτοῖς μὴ ζηλῶσαι τὴν ἐκείνων παχύτητα , μηδὲ παραπλησίως ἐκείνοις καταλιπεῖν τὸν δεσπότην , καὶ πρὸς τὸν οἰκέτην δραμεῖν , καὶ ἀντὶ τοῦ θεοῦ τὸν Μωυσέα λαβεῖν , καὶ ἀντὶ τῶν καινῶν προσμεῖναι τοῖς παλαιοῖς . καίτοι , φησίν , οὐκ οὐρανόθεν αὐτοῖς ὁ θεός , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν τῷ Σινᾷ ὄρει τὴν νομοθεσίαν ἐδίδου · ἡμεῖς δὲ τὴν ἀπ ʼ οὐρανῶν ἐπιφάνειαν προσδεχόμεθα τοῦ δεσπότου , καὶ διδάσκων ὡς αὐτὸς καὶ τούτων κἀκείνων νομοθέτης γεγένηται , ἐπήγαγεν : where it is true in the last clause he seems rather to incline to believe that the Second Person of the Trinity is throughout spoken of), Calvin, Schlichting, Owen (in the main: “God himself, or the Son of God”), Grot. (“Utrovis modo legas, τόν quod hic legitur et quod sequitur, non distinguit eum cui parendum sit, sed modum quo is se revelavit”), Limborch, Bengel, Peirce, Carpzov, Wetst., Baumgarten, al., Bleek, De Wette, Tholuck, Lünemann, Delitzsch, al.);