 11 .] Recurrence to the common ground of Hebrews 12:8 , in describing the attribute of  all chastisement, divine as well as human. That this reference of the verse is right, I am fully persuaded. Delitzsch’s view, that divine chastisement only is intended, confuses the logical sequence, and would certainly require, after what has gone before, some distinctive mark to indicate such restriction of the sense. The sequence of οἱ μὲν .… ἐπαίδευον .… ὁ δὲ … ( παιδεύει ).… πᾶσα δὲ παιδεία could not be otherwise interpreted than by taking πᾶσα as including the οἱ μέν and the ὁ δέ . It is true that in asserting what he does of πᾶσα παιδεία , the Writer lets fall out of view the capricious nature and uncertain result of human chastisement, and regards it more as a type and representative of that which is divine: all παιδεία properly so called, and answering its proper purpose. This is brought out in the second clause: the first is equally true of every sort of παιδεία .  Now (exactly gives the  δέ , which resumes the general from the particular, introducing an axiom to which all will assent)  all chastisement for the time present (  πρός , as before, Hebrews 12:10 , ‘during and in respect of:’ our ‘  for ’ exactly gives it. Cf. ref. Thucyd., ὁρῶν αὐτοὺς πρὸς τὸ παρὸν χαλεπαίνοντας )  seems ( καλῶς εἶπεν · οὐ δοκεῖ . οὐδὲ γὰρ ἐστὶ λύπης ἡ παιδεία , ἀλλὰ μόνον δοκεῖ . Chrys.)  not to be matter of joy (  χαρᾶς is the gen. of category, and requires no ellipsis supplied: see on ch. Hebrews 10:39 , and cf. Thuc. iii. 70, βουλῆς ὤν ),  but of grief: but afterwards it yields (see reff. and Herod. i. 193, ἐπὶ διηκόσια μὲν τὸ παράπαν ἀποδιδοῖ )  peaceable fruit of righteousness (the gen. is one of apposition; the righteousness is the fruit, the παιδεία being the tree. The words are otherwise taken, making δικαιοσύνης a gen. subjecti, and righteousness that which yields the fruit, by Thl. (making δικαιοσύνη to be God’s righteousness: δίκαιος ὢν ὁ θεός , τοὺς ἐν τῷ αἰῶνι τούτῳ λυπηθέντας ἐκεῖ ἀναπαύει ), Jac. Cappell. (Calv. in Bleek, but he says, “Fructus justitiæ dicitur timor Domini:” which is rather the other way), Schulz, Kuinoel, Klee, al., who make δικαιος . an attribute not of God, but of the men spoken of: as in ref. Phil., πεπληρωμένοι καρπὸν δικαιοσύνης τὸν διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , and in Liban. Decl. i. p. 198 B, μηδὲ τοῦτ ʼ ἄδηλον , πότερον ὁ τῆς δικαιοσύνης καρπὸς ἢ τῆς πονηρίας ἀμείνων . But seeing that παιδεία καρπὸν ἀποδίδωσιν , it must be its own fruit, and not that belonging to righteousness, that it yields. And thus Estius, Schlichting, Calov., Bengel, Storr, Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Delitzsch, al. And this fruit, thus considered, is the practical righteousness which springs from faith, not the forensic righteousness which comes by faith (as in Rom 5:1 ). And this fruit is called εἰρηνικός , in contrast to the ἀγών by which it is won: it is, as Tholuck expresses it, “fruit of righteousness to be enjoyed in peace after the conflict.” This is far better than to understand it ‘salutaris’ because שָׁלוֹם , peace, is used also for salvation (so Castellio, Michaelis, Storr, Ernesti, Dindorf, Schleusner, Wahl, Bretschn., Kuinoel): or with Primas., Grot., Wittich, Braun, Lamb. Bos, to take it as = “gratissimum atque acceptissimum.” The same sounding words occur together in ref. James, but the reference is different: see note there)  to those who have been exercised by it (viz. παιδείας . The  γεγυμνασμένοις is a clear reference to the conflict alluded to in the former verses. τί ἐστι , τοῖς δι ʼ αὐτῆς γεγυμν .; τοῖς ἀνασχομένοις ἐπὶ πολὺ καὶ καρτερήσασιν . ὁρᾷς πῶς καὶ εὐφήμῳ ὀνόματι κέχρηται ; ἄρα γυμνασία ἐστὶν ἡ παιδεία , τὸν ἀθλητὴν ἰσχυρὸν ἐργαζομένη καὶ ἀκαταγώνιστον ἐν τοῖς ἀγῶσι καὶ ἄμαχον ἐν τοῖς πολέμοις . Chrys.).