 23 .] Before rendering this verse, the difficult question of its punctuation must be dealt with. I extract in substance Delitzsch’s note. The following varieties are possible, and occur, not only as proposed by Commentators, but as set down in MSS. and editions: I. καὶ μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων πανηγύρει, καὶ …
	a. καὶ μυριάσιν, ἀγγέλων πανηγύρει, καὶ …
	b. καὶ μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων, πανηγύρει, καὶ …
	II. καὶ μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων, πανηγύρει καὶ …
	III. καὶ μυριάσιν, ἀγγέλων πανηγύρει, καὶ …
	According to I., which is found in most uncial MSS., &c., and is adopted by Erasmus, and by Tischendorf, the inner relation of the words of which the clause consists is left uncertain: all is undefined, for we punctuate as if it were καὶ μυρίων as in D 1 , or as it might certainly be, καὶ μυριάδων ἀγγέλων πανηγύρει . This inaccuracy precludes both I. a (Griesbach, Knapp, Seb. Schmidt, Wolf, Böhme, Kuinoel, Tholuck), as making μυριάσιν in apposition with ἀγγέλων πανηγύρει , and I. b (Œc. ( πανηγύρει ἐν μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων ὑπερεχούσῃ ), Thl. ( ἡ πανήγυρις οὖν αὐτὴ ἐν μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων συνίσταται ), Syr. (“  ad cœtus myriadum angelorum ”), D-lat. (“  et multitudinem angelorum frequentem ”), Ambr [75] (below), Jerome (“  et multorum millium angelorum frequentiam ”): E. V. (“  to an innumerable company of angels ”), and so in A, C, and many cursive mss.), which makes πανηγύρει in apposition with μυριάσιν ἀγγέλων . The former of these two has nothing against it except that one cannot see any reason for μυριάσιν standing first so isolated: the latter is condemned by the unmeaning πανηγύρει lagging at the end. According to II. (Elzev., Beza, Jo. Gregor., Matthæi: also Calov., Kypke, Carpzov, Cramer, Baumgarten, Storr, De Wette (transl. 2nd edn.)), a new clause begins with πανηγύρει καὶ ἐκκλησίᾳ : for which arrangement Lünemann and Hofmann have decided, the former remarking, that πανήγυρις assembles the company of the firstborn in feast and jubilee, while ἐκκλησία binds them together in unity; the latter, that πανήγυρις and ἐκκλησία answer to the Heb. עֲצָרָה and קָהָל , the one denoting an assembly for worship, the other an assembly politically ordered. But it is difficult to see why the coupling of clause to clause by καί , which prevails through the sentence, should thus be broken through: and while the former of these Hebrew words is only once (ref. Amos) rendered πανήγυρις by the LXX, the two words never occur together in the O. T. We have then left III. (Bengel, C. F. Schmid, Ernesti, Schulz, Vater, Lachm., De Wette (transl. 3rd edn.), Theile), for which Bleek also decides, remarking rightly, that only on this view is the beginning of the sentence by the simple word μυριάσιν explained. The Writer begins with it, in order afterwards to say  per partes of what these myriads consist, as in the O. T. also we read of רִבְבוֹת both of angels, ref. Deut., and of the congregation, Numbers 10:36 . πανήγυρις is the complete, multitudinous, above all, jubilant, festal and blissful assembly: thus Ambrose renders “et decem millibus Iætantium angelorum,” and Aug [76] “exultantium.” Adopting then this arrangement, the verse will stand,  and to myriads (reff.: commonly used of the angelic company surrounding Jehovah),  the festal host of angels and the assembly of the firstborn which are written in heaven (who are these? Why are they put with the angels? Why does the Writer place κριτῇ θεῷ πάντων between the assembly of the firstborn and the spirits of just men made perfect? These, says Delitzsch, are three closely connected questions, and among the very hardest in our Epistle. The answers to them are very various. Many understand them of the first-fruits of the Christian church ( ἀπαρχή , Revelation 14:4 ; see also 2Th 2:13 v. r.): so De Wette, “those who are fallen asleep in the faith of Christ, and possibly also glorified by martyrdom, who have entered earlier than others, as it were the firstborn, into blissful union with God and Christ.” As Del. observes, if we hold them to be martyrs, the following words, καὶ κριτῇ θεῷ πάντων , might have a certain propriety from Revelation 6:9 f., where the souls of the martyrs under the altar cry, ἕως πότε .… οὐ κρίνεις καὶ ἐκδικεῖς τὸ αἷμα ἡμῶν ἐκ τῶν κατοικούντων ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς ; But this view seems altogether to fail when we attempt to explain by it  ἀπογεγραμμένων ἐν οὐρανοῖς . Those of whom our Lord says, Luke 10:20 , χαίρετε ὅτι τὰ ὀνόματα ὑμῶν ἐγγέγραπται ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς , are  yet living on earth . According to St. Luke’s manner of speaking, the firstborn are hereby designated as enrolled (see reff. Luke) in the heavenly roll: and Scripture usage seems to demand that we consider one thus described, as not yet in possession of everlasting life in the fullest sense, but as destined to life (cf. Isaiah 4:3 ; Act 13:48 ). This would forbid us from thinking of the 144,000 whom St. John saw with the Lamb on the heavenly Sion, who bore on their foreheads the name of the Lamb and of the Father. For this sealing was among the insignia of their eternal glorification: whereas the being enrolled in the book of life is the token to us, while here below, of our heavenly citizenship, and seems to lose all its significance, as soon as we have entered the heavenly city and need no assurance of our citizenship either for ourselves or for others. So that though we are tempted, both by the fact of their being classed with the angels, and by their being πρωτότοκοι (cf. ἀπὸ τῶν ἀνθρώπων ἀπαρχή , Rev 14:4 ), to identify these with the χιλιάδες seen by St. John, we must give up the parallel, these ἀπογεγραμμένοι ἐν οὐρανοῖς being not yet citizens of heaven who have taken up their full citizenship by passing through death, but persons to whom their citizenship is assured, they being as yet here below. Add to which, that they are distinguished from the spirits of just men made perfect, by the term ἐκκλησία : and that it would be difficult or rather impossible, on this hypothesis, to give any account of the sense or arrangement of the two following clauses. Just as inadmissible is it, or even more so, to understand, with Lünem., by the πρωτότοκοι the patriarchs and saints of the O. T., and then by πνεύμασι δικαίων τετελ ., not, as De W., the O. T. but the N. T. saints. So that, to say nothing of other varieties of interpretation not worth mentioning, there is no way left but to see, in the ἐκκλησίᾳ πρωτοτόκων ἐν οὐρανοῖς ἀπογεγραμμένων , THE CHURCH BELOW. And this view, far from being a last refuge, is justified by every consideration. For, 1. thus  ἐκκλησία is explained, which every where when used of men and not of angels, Psalms 88:5 , designates the assembly of saints on earth: 2. the adjunct  ἀπογεγρ  .   ἐν οὐρ  . is accounted for, indicating as it does the heavenly charter of the church below, the invisible side of their sonship and citizenship (cf. 1Jn 3:2 ), with which in this description of heaven we are mainly concerned: 3. we get an explanation of the choice of the term  πρωτοτόκων to describe Christian believers. The Writer having given the warning example of Esau, who for a morsel of meat sold his birthright, has prepared the way for such a designation, while at the same time, as Knapp rightly remarks, the long sentence beginning at Heb 12:18 aims at this, “ut Christiani contra ἀπιστίαν muniantur et bona sua ( τὰ πρωτοτόκια αὐτῶν ) nosse discant.” There is no distinction between firstborn and later-born Christians, but, as Hofmann also acknowledges, all Christians as such are called πρωτότοκοι because of their heritorship of the heavenly inheritance. We may also remark that thus the analogy with the firstborn of Israel is completely fulfilled. They were dedicated to God specially as his priests (Exodus 13:1-2 ; Exo 13:11-15 ), and royal succession was in the firstborn: so that in πρωτότοκοι we have that which St. John says: ἐποίησεν ἡμᾶς βασιλείαν , ἱερεῖς τῷ θεῷ καὶ πατρὶ αὐτοῦ . This primogeniture, which belonged to Israel as such ( Exo 4:22 ), belongs to Christians as such, and to every one of them: they are enrolled not merely in an earthly register, cf. Numbers 3:42 , but in the book of life in heaven. We also thus, 4. obtain an explanation of the juxtaposition in the sentence of the myriads of angels and the myriads of the firstborn: the key to it being found in ch. Hebrews 1:14 , where God is said to have apportioned the angels as λειτουργικὰ πνεύματα to minister to the  heirs of salvation . Thus we have the heavenly spirits and the firstborn whose names are in heaven, the jubilant choir above and the militant church below, ranged together. But, 5. we also get, what we find on no other hypothesis, an explanation of the sequence of κριτῇ θεῷ πάντων on ἐκκλησίᾳ πρωτοτόκων , and of that of πνεύμασιν δικαίων τετελειωμένων on κριτῇ θεῷ πάντων . The key to the words is in ch. Hebrews 10:30 , κύριος κρινεῖ τὸν λαὸν αὐτοῦ . The church militant here below brings to mind those enemies and persecutors, for deliverance and righting from whom she looks to the righteous judgment of God. And he who is in fellowship ( 1Jn 1:7 ) with the great Judge has no judgment to fear, but is δεδικαιωμένος ; thereby leading on to the πνεύμασιν δικαίων τετελειωμένων which follows. Thus, according to Delitzsch’s note, which in the main I have here followed, the connexion between the clauses is established, and the arrangement justified: and I own this interpretation seems to me the only one which in any way fulfils those requirements. A summary of other interpretations may be seen in Bleek and Lünemann. There is a monograph by Mosheim, De Ecclesia Primogenitorum in Cœlo adscriptorum ex Hebr. xii., Helmst. 1733, which I have not seen. He takes them, in common with Bleek, De W., al., as the first converts to Christianity already entered into glory. Estius most nearly approaches the interpretation given above. His whole note is very good; the conclusion especially so: “Sensus igitur hujus partis est: aggregati estis et adscripti in societatem eorum qui præ cæteris mortalibus electi sunt a Deo et ab aliis separati, tanquam primogeniti, et in cœlis, tanquam beatitudinis cœlestis hæredes, conscripti. Hæc vero dicens significat et ipsos esse primogenitos et conscriptos in cœlis”),  and to God the judge of all (not, as many moderns, Erasm. (annot. appy.), Hermann de Wall, Bengel, Wetst., Cramer, Michaelis, C. F. Sehmid, Storr, Knapp, Dindorf, Vater, Paulus, De Wette, Bleek, Stuart, Lünem., Delitzsch, “to the (a) judge, the God of all.” For, 1. the order of the words in the clause is the natural one where a predicate is brought out into prominence for any reason, whether to be affirmed, or made the subject of attention: cf., for the first, 1 Thessalonians 4:6 , διότι ἔκδικος κύριος περὶ πάντων τούτων , and for the second James 1:5 , παρὰ τοῦ διδόντος θεοῦ πᾶσιν : 2. all the Greek expositors, and the ancients without exception, took the words so, e. g. as Thl., πάντων γάρ , οὐχὶ Ἰουδαίων μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ πιστῶν ἐστι κριτής : 3. if they meant, “to a judge, the God of all,” surely they would have been otherwise expressed, κριτῇ ( τῶν ) πάντων θεῷ or the like: 4. thus only, by uplifting the universal right judgment of God, does the clause fit the context, coming between the mention of the elect, written in heaven, and the spirits of the  just , shewing that the ἀπογραφή is no arbitrary selection, the δικαίωσις no unreasonable procedure. It is not improbable that the Writer may have had in view Abraham’s question Genesis 18:25 , “Shall not the judge of all the earth do right?” I only stop to protest, even for those who adopt the θεῷ πάντων view, against the idea of Delitzsch, al., that πάντων is neuter. God could not be said to be θεὸς πάντων in the neuter sense of πάντα . He is ὁ  ἐπὶ πάντων θεός , Romans 9:5 , which is widely different: δι ʼ ὃν τὰ πάντα καὶ δι ʼ οὗ τὰ πάντα , ch. Hebrews 2:10 , which again is widely different: He is θεὸς τῶν πνευμάτων καὶ πάσης σαρκός : but He is not θεὸς τοῦ κόσμου , nor θεὸς τῶν πάντων (neut.). He is God of πάντες , but not of πάντα ; the God not of the dead, but of the living. Primas., Œc., Thl., Faber Stap., Braun understand this of Christ: but it is a characteristic of this Epistle that all judgment is formally, and in words, referred to God the Father: see ch. Hebrews 4:11 f.; Hebrews 10:30 f.; Hebrews 12:29 ; ch. Heb 13:4 ),  and to the spirits of just men who have been perfected (i. e. the whole number of the just who have passed into their rest, from righteous Abel downwards; not yet δικαίοις τετελειωμένοις , because they are as yet disembodied and awaiting the resurrection, but  πνεύμασιν δικαίων τετελειωμένων . This τελείωσις has been through sufferings, through trials, through running and having ended their race. All is accomplished, their probation, their righteousness, God’s purposes respecting them. They are not sleeping, they are not unconscious, they are not absent from us: they are perfected, lacking nothing, except, and that is our defect because we are as yet imprisoned in an unspiritual body, communion with us: their spirits are perfect, and therefore not suspended from the spirit life, but waiting only for bodily perfection also. The exposition of this clause has been much disturbed by the mistaken views taken of the former ones. It has been variously explained; of the N. T. saints only (Grot., Mosh., Bengel, Sykes, Baumgarten, C. F. Schmid, Storr, al.), of the O. T. saints (Corn. a-Lap., Schlicht., Wolf, Schulz, Bleek, De W., Ebrard). It is understood as above by Knapp, Böhme, Tholuck, Bisping, Delitzsch. The Greek expositors also give it a general reference: e. g. Thl., τουτέστι , ταῖς ψυχαῖς τῶν εὐδοκιμησάντων καὶ τελείων φανέντων παρὰ θεῷ , διὰ πίστεως δηλαδή , ὡς ἀπέδειξεν . This perfection of the just is the result of the (anticipated) just judgment of God, and thus aptly follows κριτῇ θεῷ πάντων ),
	 [75]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397
	 [76]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430