 4 .] Bengel’s remark, which De Wette charges with pedantry, “a cursu venit ad pugilatum, ut Paulus, 1 Corinthians 9:26 , is nevertheless a just one.  Not yet have ye resisted (so  ἀντικαθίστασθαι absolutely, Thuc. i. 62, εἶδον τοὺς ἐναντίους παρασκευαζομένους εἰς μάχην , ἀντικαθίσταντο καὶ αὐτοί : and 71, ταύτης μέντοι τοιαύτης ἀντικαθεστηκυίας πόλεως , ὦ Λακεδαιμόνιοι , διαμέλλετε . See below)  unto blood (many take this to mean, have not yet sacrificed your lives. So Chrys., ὃ δὲ λέγει , τοῦτό ἐστιν · οὔπω θάνατον ὑπέστητε · μέχρι χρημάτων ὑμῖν ἡ ζημία , μέχρι δόξης , μέχρι τοῦ ἐλαύνεσθαι . And Thl., οὔπω , φησίν , ἄχρι θανάτου ἐφθάσατε , ἀλλὰ ἄχρι διωγμῶν , ἄχρις ἁρπαγῆς · ὁ δὲ χριστὸς ἄχρι θανάτου ἦλθεν . And this may be so: but I would rather abide by the idea of the pugilistic figure being intended, and apply μέχρις αἵματος to the figure, not to the interpretation. Cf. Seneca, Ep. i. 13, “Non potest athleta magnos spiritus ad certamen afferre, qui nunquam suggillatus est. Ille qui vidit sanguinem suum, cujus dentes crepuerunt sub pugno, ille qui supplantatus adversarium toto tulit corpore, nec projecit animum projectus, qui quoties cecidit contumacior resurrexit, cum magna spe descendit ad pugnam.” For the expression, cf. reff., and Niceph. Hist. a. 741, ἐνωμότους αὐτῷ συνθήκας δεδώκεσαν , ὡς μέχρις αἵματος ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἀνελέσθαι τὸν κίνδυνον .
	On the relation of such passages as this to the date of the Epistle, see in the Prolegomena, § ii. 29 ff.),  contending against (  πρός , of the direction towards which the athlete’s force was directed: cf. μάχεσθαι πρὸς Τρῶας , Il. ρ . 471: Matthiæ, § 591, and Winer, § 49, h. α .)  sin (personified, as an adversary: not to be limited in its meaning to sin in themselves, or to sin in their persecutors, but understood of both. Delitzsch, who would confine it to the latter, says that it was not sin in themselves which would  shed their blood, but rather, which would  spare its being shed. Yes, and for this very reason the  resisting that sin of unfaithfulness which would lead them to  spare their blood, would if carried far enough, lead to the shedding of it. Similarly, the sin in their persecutors, which they were to resist, would, if yielded to, spare their blood by seducing them into apostasy. The joining πρὸς τὴν ἁμαρτίαν with ἀνταγωνιζόμενοι is even more certain than the similar connexion in Hebrews 12:3 , seeing that ἀντικατέστητε has already had its qualifying clause in μέχρις αἵματος . And so almost all Commentators, except Bengel).