 2 .]  looking unto (so E. V. very exactly.  ἀφορᾶν εἰς , or πρός τι , is an ordinary word for to direct the gaze upon any thing. So, of the outward eye, Jos. Antt. iv. 4. 7, Ἀαρὼν … θνήσκει , τοῦ πλήθους εἰς αὐτὸν ἀφορῶντος : of the inward eye, Arrian, Epictet. iv. 1, εἰς ταῦτα ἀφορᾷ τὰ παραδείγματα : Jos. B. J. 2:17.2, μάλιστα δὲ ἀφορῶντες εἰς τὸν Ἐλεάζαρον στρατηγοῦντα : Arrian, Epict. ii. 19, εἰς τὸν θεὸν ἀφορῶντας ἐν παντὶ μικρῷ καὶ μεγάλῳ . See many more examples in Bleek. There does not appear to be in the preposition  ἀφ  - , any intimation of looking  off from every thing else unto , as sometimes asserted. It merely implies direction from the person acting, or the place from which he acts, as in the similar compounds ἀπιδεῖν , ἀποβλέπειν (ch. Heb 11:26 ), ἀφορμᾶσθαι ( εἰς ), ἀφικνεῖσθαι , &c.)  the Leader (one who precedes others by his example, they following him: [or rather  Author :] see the note on ch. Hebrews 2:10 , where the meanings of  ἀρχηγός are classified)  and Perfecter (  τελειωτής , only found here, is variously interpreted. Chrys. says, τὸν ἀρχηγὸν καὶ τελειωτήν . τί ἐστι τοῦτο ; τουτέστιν αὐτὸς ἐν ἡμῖν τὴν πίστιν ἐνέθηκεν , αὐτὸς τὴν ἀρχὴν δέδωκεν ( Joh 15:16 ).… εἰ δὲ αὐτὸς τὴν ἀρχὴν ἡμῖν ἐνέθηκεν , αὐτὸς καὶ τὸ τέλος ἐπιθήσει . And so Œc. and Thl., Primas., Erasm.(par., “quod cœpit in nobis consummabit”), Jac. Cappell., Wittich, Braun. Another view is that He perfects the faith by bringing it to an end in the capacity of βραβευτής , giving it its final reward: so Schlichting, Grot., Limborch, Calmet, al. Again Bl., De Wette, Ebrard would understand merely that He exhibited faith in perfection in his own example. And so nearly Bengel (“fidei princeps et consummator dicitur, quia ipse fidem Patri ab initio ad exitum præstitit”): and Thdrt., when he says, κατὰ τὸ ἀνθρώπινον ἀμφότερα τέθεικεν . And doubtless this meaning must not be excluded; but neither must it be held exclusively. He ἐτελείωσεν ( τὴν ) πίστιν , inasmuch as He perfected faith in his own person and example: but He ἐτελείωσεν τὴν πίστιν also, inasmuch as He became the Author of perfect salvation to them that obey Him. His going before us in faith has made faith possible for us: His perfecting faith in his own person and example, has made faith effectual for us)  of the faith (viz. that faith of which we have been speaking through ch. 11: and thus rather ‘  the faith ’ than “  our faith ,” which latter is liable to the mistake so often made in English, viz. to being taken as if it =  faith in us , so that Jesus should be said to be “author and finisher” of each individual Christian’s faith which he has within him. We may render merely ‘faith’ without the art.; but seeing that πίστις has been anarthrous before (ch. Heb 11:1 ) when it was abstract, it would seem most probable that the art. here is intended to have a definite force. Besides which, the ascription of faith to our Lord is so plain in our Epistle (cf. ch. Hebrews 2:13 ; Heb 3:2 ) that we must not seem to exclude this sense in our rendering, which we certainly do by “  our faith :” whereas ‘  the faith ’ includes both, and satisfies that which follows, in which His own example of endurance in prospect of triumph is set before us),  (even) Jesus, who for the joy set before Him (  ἀντὶ τῆς προκειμένης αὐτῷ χαρᾶς has been otherwise interpreted both by ancients and moderns. The Syr., Nazianz. in Œc., Beza, al. take it to mean, “  instead of the joy which He had before His incarnation .” ᾧ ἐξὸν μένειν ἐπὶ τῆς ἰδίας δόξης τε καὶ θεότητος , οὐ μόνον ἑαυτὸν ἐκένωσεν ἄχρι τῆς δούλου μορφῆς , ἀλλὰ καὶ σταυρὸν ὑπέμεινεν . Naz. But this, though more according to the common meaning of ἀντί , seems to me doubly objectionable. First, which many have noticed, χαρά which He already had could not well be designated as προκειμενη : and then, which I have not seen noticed, χαρά can hardly be used of a state of bliss in which one already is, a quiescent or præ-existent joy, but more naturally applies to joy prompted by some cause of active rejoicing. Then another modification of this same view is found in Chrys., τουτέστιν , ἐξῆν αὐτῷ μηδὲν παθεῖν , εἴπερ ἐβούλετο . οὐδὲ γὰρ ἁμαρτίαν ἐποίησεν , οὐδὲ δόλος εὑρέθη ἐν τῷ στόματι αυτοῦ · καθὼς καὶ αὐτός φησιν ἐν τοῖς εὐαγγελίοις · ἔρχεται ὁ τοῦ κόσμου ἄρχων , καὶ οὐκ ἔχει ἐν ἐμοὶ οὐδέν . προὔκειτο τοίνυν αὐτῷ , εἴπερ ἐβούλετο , μὴ ἐλθεῖν εἰς τὸν σταυρόν · ἐξουσίαν γὰρ ἔχω , φησί , θεῖναι τὴν ψυχήν μου , καὶ ἐξουσίαν ἔχω πάλιν λαβεῖν αὐτήν . And so Œc., Thl., Luther (  da er wohl hatte mögen freude haben, duldete er u.s.w. ), Calvin (“Significat enim, quum integrum esset Christo se eximere omni molestia, vitamque felicem et bonis omnibus affluentem degere, ipsum tamen ultro subiisse mortem acerbam et plenam ignominia”), al. But this again, though it might satisfy προκειμένης , falls short of the above sense maintained for χαρᾶς . Another kindred meaning is found in Erasm.(paraphr., “contemtis hujus vitæ gaudiis, subit mortem”), Wolf, Raphel, Carpzov, Wetst., Paulus, Bretschn. This makes χαρά = ἡδονή , besides giving a low and unworthy sense to ἡ προκειμένη αὐτῷ χαρά , in making it to mean the pleasures of this life. The sense given above, ‘for the joy set before Him,’ i. e. as in comparison with, as in exchange for, the joy which was to come after, in the day of His triumph, is adopted by Thdrt. (but interpreting the χαρά of the salvation of men, χαρὰ τοῦ σωτῆρος τῶν ἀνθρώπων ἡ σωτηρία · ὑπὲρ ταύτης τὸ πάθος ὑπέμεινε ), Primasius, Corn. a-Lap., Justiniani, Schlichting, Grot., Hammond, Seb. Schmidt, Braun, Limborch, Bengel, Winer, Böhme, De Wette, Kuinoel, Bleek, Tholuck, Ebrard, Lünem., Delitzsch, al. And it is fully borne out both by usage, and the context. For thus we have ἀντί in reff., and in Xen. Hell. iv. 8. 6, ὀργιζόμενος τοῖς Λακεδαιμονίοις ἀνθ ʼ ὧν ἐπεπόνθει : Aristoph. Plut. 434, ἢ σφὼ ποιήσω τήμερον δοῦναι δίκην ἀνθ ʼ ὦν ἐμὲ ζητεῖτον ἐνθένδ ʼ ἀφανίσαι . See Winer, § 47. a)  endured crucifixion (  σταυρόν , anarthrous and put after the verb; and thus representing rather in the abstract, the kind of death, than in the concrete, “the cross” on which He was crucified),  despising shame (or, “  the shame :” when an anarthrous noun comes before a verb in the place of emphasis, it is not so easily determined whether it is definite or indefinite. But from the analogy of σταυρόν before, it is most probable that this is indefinite also, every kind of shame, even to that of the shameful death which He died),  and (  τε is used as a copula, apart from καί ,  once by St. Matt. ( Mat 28:12 ),  once by St. Mark ( Mar 15:36 ),  twice by St. John (John 4:42 ; Joh 6:18 ),  four times by St. Paul (Romans 2:19 ; Romans 16:26 ; 1 Corinthians 4:21 ; Eph 3:19 ): but  seventy-nine times by St. Luke: and in this Epistle four times (Hebrews 1:3 ; Hebrews 6:5 ; Hebrews 9:1 ; Heb 12:2 )  is set down (so E. V. rightly, reading the perfect as in text. The aor. would express the fact, as it happened: the perf. gives it as it now endures, having happened. So that the latter is more real and graphic as concerns the readers)  on the right hand of the throne of God (i. e. on the throne of God, at His right hand: see on ch. Hebrews 8:1 , and cf. Rev 3:21 ).