 17 .]  For (the  γάρ gives a reason for the caution, from the terrible result in Esau’s case)  ye know (  ἴστε is not imperative, as the vulg. (“  scitote ”) and Luther, but indicative. It was a fact of which no Hebrew could be ignorant)  that when he afterward on his part (  καί brings out this:  he dishonoured his inheritance, but was in his turn rejected from the blessing)  wished to inherit (see on this wide sense of κληρονομέω , ch. Heb 1:4 )  the blessing, he was rejected (some supply παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ , some παρὰ τοῦ πατρός . But there is no reason why both should not be joined. His father’s blessing was God’s blessing; his father’s rejection was God’s rejection. And so Thl., ἢ .… παρ ʼ ἀμφοτέρων · δῆλον γὰρ ὅτι καὶ ὁ πατὴρ κατὰ θεὸν ἀπεδοκίμασεν αὐτόν );  for he found not place of repentance (  whose repentance  his own , or  his father’s ? The former is held by all the Greek expositors: by Luther, Calvin, Zeger, Grot., Bengel, De Wette, Bleek, Hofmann, Delitzsch, al. The latter, by Beza, Jac. Cappell., Schlichting, Raphel, Wolf, Carpzov, Tholuck, Ebrard, Stuart, Lünem., and most moderns except those named above. But the former I believe to be the only admissible sense. It is no mean argument for it, that the Fathers thought not of the other, though it would have been so useful to them in the Novatian controversy. Theodore of Mops. (Migne, Patr. Gr. vol. lxv. p. 968), though he wrests the passage from those who wished τὴν μετάνοιαν ἀνελεῖν , never hints at any other meaning. And his explanation is surely the right one: οὐχὶ συγχωρήσεως ἁμαρτημάτων μετανοήσας οὐκ ἔτυχεν ἐκεῖνος , οὐ γὰρ τοῦτο ᾔτει τότε , ἀλλ ʼ εὐλογίαν , ἣν κατὰ τὴν ἀξίαν τοῦ τρόπου τῷ ἀδελφῷ δοθεῖσαν ἀφαιρεθῆναι αὖθις οὐδαμῶς οἷόν τε ἦν καὶ δοθῆναι αὐτῷ πάλιν . It would surely be a most unnatural use of the phrase  μετανοίας τόπον εὗρεν (cf. ref. Wisd., κρίνων δὲ κατὰ βραχὺ ἐδίδους τόπον μετανοίας : Clem.-rom. ad Corinth. 7, p. 225, μετανοίας τόπον ἔδωκεν ὁ δεσπότης τοῖς βουλομένοις ἐπιστραφῆναι ἐπ ʼ αὐτόν : Liv. xliv. 10, “pœnitentiæ relinquens locum:” Plin. Ep. x. 97. 10, “ex quo facile est opinari, quæ turba hominum emendari possit, si sit pœnitentiæ locus:” and other examples in Bleek), to understand by μετανοίας , repentance not in the subject of εὗρεν , but in some one else. And thus referred to Esau himself, it will mean much as Thdr.-mops. above, that he found no way open to reverse what had been done, by repentance: the sin had been committed and the consequence entailed, irrevocably. He might change, but the penalty could not, from the very nature of the circumstances, be taken off. So that μετάνοια , in its full sense, had no τόπος . And such is the meaning of the ‘locus pœnitentiæ,’ wherever occurring. We do not mean by it an opportunity to repent in a man’s own bosom, to be sorry for what he has done, for this may be under any circumstances, and this might have been with Esau: but we mean,  a chance, by repenting, to repair . So when a condemned criminal has a ‘locus pœnitentiæ’ allowed him, we do not mean that he may die penitent, but that he is reprieved. I see not how else to understand this, and what follows: and thus understood nothing can be plainer),  although he earnestly sought (reff.)  it (  what? not εὐλογίαν , as Thl., τινές in Œc., Calvin, Bengel, C. F. Schmid, Bleek, and even Delitzsch: for this would be, as Ebrard characterizes it, most unnatural, εὐλογίαν being separated from αὐτήν by a whole intervening clause, which will not bear parenthesizing, because ἐκζητήσας immediately takes up εὗρεν he found it not, though he sought it. Regarding μετανοίας then as the only admissible antecedent for αὐτήν , the explanation will be very simple. μετανοίας τόπος is, in fact, μετάνοια . He found no place for μετάνοια : if he had found one, μετάνοια would have been secured: this was what he sought. So, when μετανοίας τόπον is taken up again, the mere secondary τόπος disappears, and it is αὐτήν , not αὐτόν , agreeing with the great thing really sought. This as against the arguments alleged in Delitzsch, al., who taking μετάνοια merely subjectively, maintain that it was not what Esau sought)  with tears (Genesis 27:38 . It is obvious, that our passage, rightly understood, cannot by any means favour the exclusion of any sinner from repentance. In Esau’s case the μετανοίας τόπος (see above) was closed, by circumstances themselves: the blessing had been given and could not be recalled. And this is our warning. It may be so, in many cases, with us. That it is always so, is not even hinted: but warning is given us that a path is not safe where even such a possibility may be encountered. See Pro 1:24-32 ).