 7 .] First, as to the reading. As between  εἰς and  εἰ , the case stands thus:  εἰ is found in “  minuscc. multis ut videtur ,” Tischdf. (edn. 7 [8]): in Chrys. (but more than doubtful: see below), in Thdrt. (also doubtful), in Thl. (certain). This is really all the authority that can be cited for it.  εἰς is found in the six uncial MSS. which contain the passage, in about thirty cursive mss., in all the ancient versions (apparently): in all the Fathers who cite and explain the words: e. g. Chrys. (in whose text in this Homily (xxix.) the εἰ παιδείαν ὑπομένετε is evidently a correction to the later reading: for, after quoting the text as in rec., his sentence runs, εἰ παιδεύει , ἄρα εἰς διόρθωσιν , ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ εἰς κόλασιν , οὐδὲ εἰς τιμωρίαν , οὐδὲ εἰς τὸ κακῶς παθεῖν : where it must be obvious to any one that εἰ παιδεύει ought to be εἰς παιδείαν , or the sentence is without coherence. In the Catena, this appears still more decisively: where he says, εἰς παιδείαν ὑπομένετε , φησίν · οὐκ εἰς κόλασιν , οὐδὲ εἰς τιμωρίαν ), Thdrt. (in all probability: his present text runs thus: εἰ παιδείαν ὑπομένετε · εἰ φέρετε γενναίως τὰς ἐπιφερομένας παιδείας . But it is hardly possible that εἰ φέρετε γενναίως should be the exposition of εἰ ὑπομένετε , in the sense which the verb must bear in the rec. text, and it is here again to be suspected, as even Bleek confesses, that the εἰ has been a correction to the rec.), Œc. ( ὑπομένετε , φησί , τὴν παιδείαν ). Of modern critical editors, Matthæi regards εἰς as the right reading, Griesbach puts it in his inner margin, Lachmann of course adopts it, and Tregelles: also Tischendorf edd. 7, 8, but in his 2nd edn. he retained the rec.: as do Bleek, Tholuck, and Lünem.: and among ourselves, Dr. Bloomfield, who tries to explain the (  angebliche ) correction into εἰς by saying that εἰ “  seldom begins a sentence .” In the N. T., where εἰ stands alone without μή , it begins a sentence at least nine times out of ten. See Brüder.  εἰς is adopted and strongly defended, by Ebrard and Delitzsch. And it seems to me the only defensible reading. The mere fact that εἰ appears at first sight to yield a better sense, should never be allowed to weigh against the almost unanimous consent of antiquity. And if we examine closer this supposed better sense, we shall find it fail us. For first, the verb ὑπομένειν is not one which will bear the mere accidental sense thus given to it. The sense which we want, with εἰ , is, ‘If ye are suffering chastisement:’ asserting a mere matter of fact. παιδείαν ὑπομένειν can only signify, ‘  patiently to endure chastisement.’ Then, taking this only possible meaning, what have we? ‘If ye patiently endure chastisement, God is dealing with you as with sons:’ i. e. ‘your method of endurance is a sign of God’s method of treatment:’ a sentence which stultifies itself. Next, what is the sense with  εἰς ? I see no reason for departing from that given by Chrys. in the Catena (see above): “It is for chastisement that ye are enduring, not for punishment, not for any evil purpose.” “Your ὑπομονή , like His ὑπομονή , will not be thrown away. He had joy before Him, you have life ( καὶ ζήσομεν , Heb 12:9 ) before you.” Or if we please we may take ὑπομένετε , as Œc. above, imperatively: “Endure with a view to chastisement:” which sense however is not so good nor so natural, nor is it so likely, from the collocation of the words: for thus ὑπομένετε would come first, and it would probably be εἰς τὸ παιδεύεσθαι .
	 It is for chastisement that ye are enduring: as with sons, God is dealing with you (  προσφέρεσθαι , see reff., united with οὕτως , τούτῳ τῷ τρόπῳ , βέλτιον , φιλικῶς , and similar adverbs, is common in good Greek of all ages. Bleek brings forward several passages very similar in construction to this: αἷς ἐὰν ὡς μιᾷ προσφέρῃ .… ἐὰν δὲ ὡς πολλαῖς κ . τ . λ ., Plato, Rep. p. 435 A: Πυθαγόρας ἐρωτηθείς , πῶς δεῖ ἀγνωμονούσῃ πατρίδι προσφέρεσθαι , εἶπεν · ὡς μητρί , &c., Stobæus, c. 39).  For what son is there (two other ways of taking the words are possible: 1. as Luther, adopted by Delitzsch, to make τίς the subject and υἱός the predicate, “who is a son?” 2. as Böhme, to make υἱός the subject and τίς the predicate, “of what sort is a son?” Both of these are bad: the former, from the exceeding harshness and oddity of the question, “what man is a son, whom, &c.?” the second, from the forcing of τίς , where its natural sense serves, and from the absence of the art. before υἱός . As usually rendered, the question is exactly like τίς [ ἐστιν ] ἐξ ὑμῶν ἄνθρωπος ; Matthew 7:9 ; Matthew 12:11 . See also 1 Corinthians 2:11 , τίς γὰρ οἶδεν ἀνθρώπων ;)  whom a father (possibly, ‘his father:’ for πατήρ (not υἱός ) is one of those words which, from their being singular in their kind, often lose the article)  chasteneth not ?