 15 .]  looking well (  ἐπισκοποῦντες , τουτέστιν , ἀκριβῶς ἐρευνῶντες , ἐπισκεπτόμενοι , καταμανθάνοντες , Chrys. τουτέστιν , ἀκριβῶς προσέχοντες καὶ ἐρευνῶντες , Œc. The word is found in Plato, e. g. Cratyl. 399 C, ὧν ὁρᾷ οὐδὲν ἐπισκοπεῖ , al.: in Xenophon, e. g. De Laced. Rep. 3. 1, ὁ βουλόμενος καὶ ταῦτα ἐπισκοπείσθω , al. freq.),  lest any one falling short of the grace of God (on  ὑστερέω , see on ch. Hebrews 4:1 . It is here explained by Chrys., καθάπερ ὁδόν τινα μακρὰν ὁδευόντων ἐν συνοδίᾳ πολλῇ , βλέπετε , φησί , μή τις ἀπέμεινεν : and so Thl. In that case  ἀπό must mean ‘far from’ the grace of God, as the goal to which the journey is being made. But it is far more probably in its ordinary sense, and ἀπό as in reff., and as Œc.: μή τις εἴη ἀπολελειμμένος τῆς χάριτος τοῦ θεοῦ . The whole sentence is imitated from Deuteronomy 29:18 , μή τις ἐστὶν ἐν ὑμῖν ἀνὴρ ἢ γυνὴ ἢ πατριὰ ἢ φυλή , τινὸς ἡ διάνοια ἐξέκλινεν ἀπὸ κυρίου τοῦ θεοῦ ὑμῶν , πορευθέντες λατρεύειν τοῖς θεοῖς τῶν ἐθνῶν ἐκείνων · μή τις ἐστὶν ἐν ὑμῖν ῥίζα ἄνω φύουσα ἐν χολῇ καὶ πικρίᾳ . And perhaps to this the ἀπό may be due, as Delitzsch suggests. But however this may be, the  form of this sentence may certainly be inferred from observing that one. It is broken off at τοῦ θεοῦ in order to take up the second clause of that, μή τις ῥίζα κ . τ . λ . So that we need not understand ᾖ after the participle here, as generally done, even by Thol. and Ebrard, but may pass on to the next clause, finding a common verb to both subjects in ἐνοχλῇ below. And so Heinrichs, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Delitzsch),  lest any root of bitterness (not = ῥίζα πικρά , but πικρία is the origin and the ingrained character of the root, not its mere attribute. So Chrys. well, οὐκ εἶπε πικρά , ἀλλά , πικρίας · τὴν μὲν γὰρ πικρὰν ῥίζαν ἐστὶ καρποὺς ἐνεγκεῖν γλυκεῖς , τὴν δὲ πικρίας ῥίζαν καὶ πηγὴν καὶ ὑπόθεσιν οὐκ ἐστὶ ποτὲ γλυκὺν ἐνεγκεῖν καρπόν · πάντα γάρ ἐστι πικρά , οὐδὲν ἔχει ἡδύ , πάντα πικρά , πάντα ἀηδῆ , πάντα μίσους καὶ βδελυγμίας γέμοντα . And similarly Œc. and Thl. and several moderns)  springing up (  φύω intrans., see reff.)  trouble you (it is remarkable that the LXX [as edited] (see above) in Deut. l. c. has not ἐνοχλῇ , but ἐν χολῇ , as the Heb.: and Delitzsch supposes that the Writer followed the sound of ἐν χολῇ and substituted for it ἐνοχλῇ : as in Jud 1:12 the ἀπάταις of 2Pe 2:13 is changed into ἀγάπαις (or vice versa). But this is hardly likely, especially when we find that the Alexandrine copy of the LXX, with which our Writer so often agrees, has ἐνοχλῇ [as has also B 1 ]. Delitzsch indeed supposes that this reading crept in after our Epistle was written: and strengthens his view by the superfluous and unintelligible καὶ πικρία following the word in the alex. text. But clearly that is no reason: nor is it probable that such correction should have been only one of four which are found in the mss. in Holmes, the other three being εν οχλῃ , ενοχῃ , εν ω χολῃ . The fact of ἐνοχλεῖν , ref. Luke, ὀχλεῖν Acts 5:16 , παρενοχλεῖν Acts 15:19 , being all in St. Luke, does not make for Delitzsch’s view: all men (taking his hypothesis of the authorship by St. Luke) are more free in quoting sayings where their own favourite words occur),  and by its means the many (the whole congregation: see Gal 5:9 quoted below)  be polluted (how? by intercourse, by compromise, by over-persuasion, by imitation. The kind of pollution he explains in the next verse to arise from fornication and profanity. Thl. says, ὁ δὲ ἀλλαχοῦ γράφει · μικρὰ ζύμη ὅλον τὸ φύραμα ζυμοῖ ( Gal 5:9 ), τοῦτο καὶ ἐνταῦθά φησι · μή τις πονηρὸς εἰς λύμην πλειόνων εἶναι συγχωρείσθω ):