 14 .]  Follow peace with all (  μετὰ πάντων belongs to  εἰρήνην , not to the verb. Some have understood πάντων to refer not only to the brethren, but to unbelievers also. So Œc. ( μεθ ʼ ἑαυτῶν καὶ τῶν ἐπηρεαζόντων · πολὺ γὰρ τὸ πλάτος τοῦ μετὰ πάντων ), Thl. ( οὐ μόνον πρὸς τοὺς οἰκείους , ἀλλὰ καὶ πρὸς τοὺς ἐχθροὺς εἰρηνεύειν παραινεῖ ), Jac. Cappell., Grot., Calov., al., and Böhme, Lünem., al. But thus taken the exhortation would lose much of its proper force here. For it is introduced by a caution that the lame be not turned out of the way, and followed by taking heed that none fail of the grace of God: and between these two an exhortation to follow peace with all mankind would come in very flat and disjointed. It is clearly the brethren who are here meant by πάντων : and this is further shewn by the collocation of the words, which on the other view would more naturally be εἰρήνην μετὰ πάντων διώκετε . The sentiment thus is the same as in Romans 14:19 , ἄρα οὖν τὰ τῆς εἰρήνης διώκωμεν , καὶ τὰ τῆς οἰκοδομῆς τῆς εἰς ἀλλήλους ),  and sanctification (“The connexion of  καὶ τὸν ἁγιασμόν is much as in Hebrews 12:1 ; ch. Hebrews 11:38 ; the Writer uses the art., when he appends the particular to the general.” Delitzsch.  ἁγιασμός is not = ἁγιότης , but is the putting on of it and becoming ἅγιοι . Many Commentators, misled by the peculiar contextual reference of the word in 1 Thessalonians 4:3 , have restricted the meaning here to  chastity . So Chrys. ( τὸν ἁγιασμὸν τί φησι ; τὴν σωφροσύνην καὶ τὴν κοσμιότητα τὴν ἐν γάμῳ ), Thdrt., Œc., Thl., Jer [73] , Aug [74] , and Jac. Cappell., Bengel, al. But the wider meaning, as a rule, must always be kept where the context does not require a narrower. And thus understood, the reference of it is well given by Limborch: “ne, dum paci studeat, nimis aliis obsequendi studio quidquam contra sanctimouiam Christianam delinquat”),  without (apart from)  which (  χωρίς seems to be put after its case for rhythm’s sake. In Palm and Rost’s art. on χωρίς , this arrangement is quoted frequently from the poets and tragedians, but does not seem to occur often in prose)  none shall see the Lord (whether  κύριον is to be applied to Christ, or to the Father, is uncertain. The article determines nothing. ὁ κύριος is clearly the Father in ch. Hebrews 8:2 ; as clearly the Son in ch. Hebrews 2:3 . But here it would seem that the Father is intended. For we know, Matthew 24:30 ; Revelation 1:7 , that every eye shall see the Son, even in His glory: whereas we have our Lord using, in an ethical sentence not much unlike this one, the expression αὐτοὶ τὸν θεὸν ὄψονται ):
	 [73]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	 [74]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430