 13 .]  and make straight tracks for your feet (Carpzov appears first to have noticed that these words, καὶ τροχιὰς ὀρθὰς ποιήσατε τοῖς ποσὶν ὑμῶν , constituted an hexameter line. They are quoted in substance from Proverbs 4:26 , ὀρθὰς τροχιὰς ποίει σοῖς ποσίν .
	 τροχιά is properly the mark left by the τροχός , the rut or wheel-mark, indicating a track or road. See reff.  τοῖς ποσίν is best taken dative, ‘  for your feet,’ not ablative (Schulz, Thol., Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., al.) “  with your feet” as instrumental: see on the following clause. And the meaning seems to be, Let your walk be so firm and so unanimous in the right direction, that a plain track and highway may be thereby established for those who accompany and follow you to perceive and walk in. Cf. Isa 35:8 ),  that that which is lame be not turned out of the way, but rather be healed (  τὸ χωλόν indicates that part of the church which was wavering between Christianity and Judaism: answering to the ἀσθενεῖς of the Epistle to the Romans. If the whole congregation, by their united and consistent walk, trod a plain and beaten path for men’s feet, these lame ones, though halting, would be easily able to keep in it, and by keeping in the τροχιὰ ὀρθή , would even acquire the habit of walking straight onward, and so be healed: but if the tracks were errant and confused, their erratic steps would deviate more and more, till at length they fell away out of the right way altogether. This connexion between the clauses only subsists entire when τοῖς ποσίν is taken as dative: if as ablative, with your feet, it is not easy to say what sequence there would be between the making of such tracks and the healing of the lame without a very harsh ellipsis between the two clauses, ‘in which others may walk,’ or the like.  ἐκτραπῇ is rendered by many of the ancient and some modern expositors, “  be dislocated .” So Œc. ( ἵνα μὴ τὸ ἐναρχθὲν κακόν , τοῦτο γὰρ τὸ χωλόν , εἰς ἀνήκεστον ἔλθῃ , μᾶλλον δὲ διορθωθῇ ), Thl. ( ἔτι προσπλάγητε καὶ ἐκτραπῶσιν οἱ πόδες ὑμῶν , τουτέστι παντελῶς στρεβλοὶ γένωνται ), Schlichting, Grot., Wolf, Carpzov, Cramer, Michaelis, Ernesti, Schleusner, Heinrichs, Bretschn., Klee, De Wette, Stuart, al. But against this there are two objections: 1. the common usage of the word; which (see Wetst. on 1 Timothy 1:6 , and reff.) is,  to be turned aside : and even in the place quoted from Galen by Carpzov to justify the other meaning, it far more likely has this one: τῆς ὑγιεινῆς ἔργον , τὸ κατὰ μικρὰ τὴν εἰς τὸ παρὰ φύσιν ἐκτροπὴν (deviation) ἐπανορθοῦσθαι : 2. the  μᾶλλον δέ , introducing the second clause, which seems to shew, that more is contained in the contrast than was in the member with which it was contrasted, and thus fully justifies the falling short in the meaning of ἐκτραπῇ from that of ἰαθῇ : q. d. ‘should not be turned out of the way; nay rather than suffer any the least increase of its infirmity, should be healed of it.’ It should be noticed that the Writer has still the image of a race before him. The making a beaten track for all is, that they may not miss the way and lose the prize).