 18 .]  For (see above)  ye have not drawn near to (‘in your approaching unto God (reff.), it has not been to, &c.’ The E. V. “ye are not come unto” omits the approach to God implied in προσέρχεσθαι )  that which was being touched (understand ὄρει , which is expressed below with Σιών , and hence has come in as a gloss here. From the seeming difficulty of this, and from all who omit ὄρει here having taken the two dative participles as agreeing with πυρί , and in consequence giving no adequate sense, many even of our critical editors and expositors have here forsaken the testimony of antiquity, and inserted the ὄρει . But if we suppose Σιὼν ὄρος to have been before the Writer’s mind from the first, there is no difficulty in his deferring the ὄρος so long.
	 ψηλαφωμένῳ has been variously interpreted. Some, as Schöttgen, Kypke, Bengel, al., and Bretschneider, and even Palm and Rost, Lex., understand it, “  touched by the fire of God,” cf. Ps. 103:32, ὁ ἁπτόμενος τῶν ὀρέων καὶ καπνίζονται . But this seems hardly consistent with the present part., nor indeed at all with the sense of the word itself, which is to touch by feeling about, as a blind man does,  contrecto, palpo Isaiah 59:10 , ψηλαφήσουσιν ὡς τυφλοὶ τοῖχον ; Genesis 27:12 , μήποτε ψηλαφήσῃ με ὁ πατήρ : Genesis 27:21-22 ; Judges 16:26 , ἄφες με καὶ ψηλαφήσω τοὺς κίονας : Deuteronomy 28:29 , καὶ ἔσῃ ψηλαφῶν μεσημβρίας , ὡσεί τις ψηλαφήσαι τυφλὸς ἐν τῷ σκότει : Job 5:14 , τὸ δὲ μεσημβρινὸν ψηλαφήσαισαν ἴσα νυκτί : Hebrews 12:25 , ψηλαφήσαισαν σκότος καὶ μὴ φῶς : Exodus 10:21 , γενηθήτω σκότος … ψηλαφητὸν σκότος . And this sense will I believe fit our passage very well. Mount Sinai was a material mountain, which not only  might be  touched , as many (Knapp, Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, Tholuck, Ebrard, Bisping, al.), identifying ψηλαφώμενον with ψηλαφητόν , but  was being touched , would have been touched by the people had it not been forbidden. So that the part. pres. (or imperf.) is in that peculiar sense of incompletion in which we so often find the imperf. itself, inviting after it an εἰ μή in Greek, or a ‘  ni ’ in Latin. Unless we bear this in mind, we are open to the objection that, while it was forbidden to be touched, it yet was touched. The other objection, brought by Delitzsch, that the Writer mentions this fact of  touching below in other terms, with θιγγάνειν , is readily answered, that he is there using the very words of the prohibition in Exodus, whereas here he is giving scope to the graphic and rhetorical style of the passage. For the whole, cf. Exodus 19:12-13 , where οὐχ ἅψεται αὐτοῦ χείρ leads very naturally to ψηλαφώμενον ),  and which was burnt with fire (cf. the same expression in reff. Deut., where nearly the same words, σκότος , γνόφος , θύελλα , following, put it beyond all doubt that  πυρί is used here ablatively, not as a dative with κεκαυμένῳ , as Erasm., Calv., Beza, Bengel, Knapp, and more recently Delitzsch. (Such a connexion is perfectly allowable, against Ebrard, who ventures here one of his rash assertions: “ κεκαυμένῳ cannot be an attribute of πυρί : for to designate a fire as ‘a burning fire’ would be superfluous, unless a burning fire is to be contrasted with a painted fire, which is not the case here.” And this in the face of πῦρ διαπαντὸς καυθήσεται ἐπὶ τὸ θυσιαστήριον , Leviticus 6:13 ; see numerous other examples in Bleek.) The perfect participle, in either case, is somewhat startling. The present would seem the more natural. But if in the case where it is taken with πυρί it is rendered ‘  kindled ’ (see Del.), there can be no reason why it should not in the other be rendered ‘  lit up .’ ‘  Consumed ’ would be κατακεκαυμένῳ : cf. Exodus 3:2 , ὅρα ὅτι ὁ βάτος καίεται πυρί , καὶ ὁ βάτος οὐ κατεκαίετο ),  and to blackness and darkness and tempest (cf. reff. Deut.),  and to sound of trumpet (see ref. Exod. The Writer avoids the φωνή there used, having so soon to use φωνὴ ῥημάτων . As regards the method of declining  ἦχος , see Winer, § 9, Remark 2. This form, which is blamed by Thomas Magister, is very commonly used by the classics. When Delitzsch states that it is the only form known to common Greek, he is as wrong the other way: see Aristoph. Av. 215: Plato, Rep. vii. p. 435: Herod. ix. 34: Callim. Hymn. in Jov. 53: Pind. Ol. 14. 29. Cf. Palm and Rost’s Lex.)  and the voice of words (ref.),