 9 .]  Then again (  εἶτα brings in a fresh argument: “furthermore,” as E. V. “deinde considerare debemus,” Primas. It is taken interrogatively here by Raphel, al., as in Plato, Apol. Socr. p. 28 B, εἶτ ʼ οὐκ αἰσχύνει , ὦ Σώκρατες κ . τ . λ .; But, 1. this would be only admissible in the case of strong indignation being expressed, which is not so here: and, 2. it would certainly require  καὶ οὐ πολὺ μᾶλλον κ . τ . λ .),  we once had (imperfect, of a state of former habit)  the fathers of our flesh (see below) as chastisers (  τοὺς πατ . is the object,  παιδευτάς the predicate: not as E. V., “  we have had fathers of our flesh who corrected us ” ( πατέρας μὲν τῆς σαρκὸς ἡμῶν εἴχομεν τοὺς παιδεύοντας ))  and reverenced them (reff.:  ἐντρέπομαι is found in classical Greek with a gen. of the object, e. g. τί βαιὸν ἐντρέπει σῆς συμμάχου ; Soph. Aj. 90: but in later (e. g. LXX, Polyb., Dionys., Diod. Sic., Plutarch, al.) and N. T. Greek with an accus.):  shall we not much rather be in subjection (so the E. V. well expresses the subjective force of the fut. pass.)  to the Father of spirits (or, ‘of  our spirits ,’ understanding ἡμῶν again. But (see also below) the other is more majestic, and more in accord with the text which probably was before the Writer’s mind, Numbers 16:22 , θεὸς τῶν πνευμάτων καὶ πάσης σαρκός , and again Num 27:16 )  and live (viz. in life eternal, as in reff.)? An enquiry arises out of the  πατέρας  ,   τῆς σαρκὸς ἡμῶν and  πατρὶ τῶν πνευμάτων here, in what sense our earthly fathers are said to be the fathers of our flesh, and God the Father of (our) spirits. To deal with the latter first: several explanations have been given. Understanding ἡμῶν , some have taken it as, the Creator of human souls. So Primasius (“creator animorum”), Thl. (as Chrys. below, but preferring this), and among the moderns, Calvin, Beza, Jac. Cappell., Estius, Justiniani, Wetst., Heinrichs, Ernesti, al., and more recently Delitzsch, as a proof of the doctrine of Creationism (the direct creation of every man’s soul by God) against Traducianism (the derivation of our souls  ex traduce from parent to parent). Some again, as the  originator of spiritual life : so Seb. Schmidt, Calov., Cramer, Grotius, Hammond(par.), Limborch, Corn. a-Lapide, and more recently Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Ebrard. Others, not understanding ἡμῶν , take it as  the Father of the spirit-world , of spiritual existences. So Erasm. Schmid, Bretschn. (lex.), al. All these three meanings are enumerated by the ancient expositors: by Chrys. without deciding between them, τῷ πατρὶ τῶν πνευμάτων · ἤτοι τῶν χαρισμάτων λέγει , ἤτοι τῶν εὐχῶν (read ψυχῶν ), ἤτοι τῶν ἀσωμάτων δυνάμεων : so Œc.: Thl. says, πατέρα δὲ πνευμάτων ἢ τῶν χαρισμάτων ἢ τῶν ἀσωμάτων δυνάμεων · ἤ , ὅπερ καὶ οἰκειότερον , τῶν ψυχῶν · πρὸς γὰρ ἀντιδιαστολὴν τῶν σαρκικῶν πατέρων εἶπε τὸν πνευματικόν . Thdrt. takes the meaning, Author of spiritual life, alone: πατέρα γὰρ πνευμάτων τὸν πνευματικὸν πατέρα κέκληκεν , ὡς τῶν πνευματικῶν χαρισμάτων πηγήν · δι ʼ ἐκείνων δὲ ἡμῖν δέδωκε τὸ τῆς υἱοθεσίας ἀξίωμα . Others understand by πατέρα not the  originator , but the  upholder, cherisher : so Morus, Dindorf, Kuinoel, Böhme (“quorumlibet hominum tanquam immortalium pater, i. e. patronus, tutor, sospitatorque”), Bretschn. (lex. under πατήρ , “qui animum castigat, docet, emendat”). But, though this latter sense must not be excluded, being as it is manifestly operative in inducing present submission, to remember present dependence, so neither must the idea of origination be excluded, for it is from that fact that all a father’s rights and loving-kindnesses spring. In endeavouring to decide between these meanings, one safe standing-place may, I think, be gained, by getting free from that class of meanings which understands ἡμῶν , any further than it is necessarily involved in all spirits. τοὺς τῆς σαρκὸς ἡμῶν πατέρας , and τῷ πατρὶ τῶν πνευμάτων without ἡμῶν , are widely and surely purposely distinct. He is described here as the Father of spirits, not as the Father of our spirits. And therefore I would understand the expression as an exalted contrast of God, a Spirit Himself, and the Creator of spirits, His like, to men, flesh themselves, and the progenitors (“creatores, quod ad similitudinem attinet”) of fleshly bodies, their like. On the consequence, as regards Creationism and Traducianism, I will not here enter. It would require far more comparison of other passages and more deliberate estimation how far this one propounds a further truth than the argument requires, to be included in a mere note. Cf. Delitzsch’s argument here.