 16 .]  lest (  there be ) (this is a far more probable filling up of the construction, as an independent elliptic sentence, than to suppose it to furnish another subject to ἐνοχλῇ )  any fornicator (to be taken literally, not as alluding to spiritual fornication, cf. Deuteronomy 31:16 ; Exodus 34:15 f.: for as Del. observes, this sense is foreign to the N. T. except in the Apocalypse: and it is very unlikely that the Writer should have used a meaning lying so far from the context, and not suggested either by the passage of Deut. to which he was before alluding, or by the history of Esau which he is now introducing. Nearly connected with the question of the sense of πόρνος , is that of the punctuation: whether by a comma after it we are to sever it from connexion with Esau, or not. Most Commentators join it with what follows. So Thdrt., Schol.-Matthæi, Isidor.-pelus., Primas., al., and explain it partly of the gluttony of Esau, partly of his having wedded strange women, partly by the character of a fornicator which is given him by later Jewish tradition: cf. numerous testimonies in Wetst. But others divide πόρνος from what follows. So Chrys., Joh. Damasc. ( ἐνταῦθα στίξαι δεῖ , ἵνα ᾖ τελεία διάνοια , καὶ τὸ ἐπιφερόμενον · καὶ βέβηλος ὡς Ἡσαῦ , cited in Wetst. var. readd.), Thl. ( οὐ τοῦτό φησι , ὅτι πόρνος ἦν Ἡσαῦ , ἀλλ ʼ ἄχρις αὐτοῦ στῆσον , μή τις πόρνος ἐν ὑμῖν ἤτω . εἶτα ἀπ ʼ ἄλλης ἀρχῆς εἶπε · μηδὲ βέβηλος ὡς Ἡσαῦ κ . τ . λ .): and so Calvin, Seb. Schmidt, Sykes, Cramer, Heinrichs, Bleek, De Wette, Bisping, Lünem. It seems hardly possible to decide. The character of Esau, from Scripture as well as tradition, will very well bear the designation πόρνος : and the balance of the sentence is better preserved by applying both to him, than by leaving πόρνος insulated. The objection, that the relative clause, ὃς ἀντὶ κ . τ . λ ., applies only to βέβηλος , does not amount to much: for as Bengel remarks, “libido et intemperantia cibi affines.” On the other hand Delitzsch’s argument, that had πόρνος been intended to be separate, it would have stood μή τις πόρνος ᾖ , ἢ κ . τ . λ ., is not sound: for the ellipsis might just as well stand in both clauses, as in one. He notices that in Philo, Quæst in Genesis 27:11 , lib. iv. § 201 Potter’s Appendix, p. 404, “Pilosus intemperatus libidinosusque est”)  or profane person ( τουτέστι , γαστρίμαργος , κοσμικός , τὰ πνευματικὰ βεβηλῶν καὶ καταπατῶν , Thl.: a man of low views, who has no appreciation of any high or divine thing: ὃς τὴν παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ τιμὴν ταύτην διὰ τῆς οἰκείας ῥᾳθυμίας ἀπέδοτο , καὶ μικρᾶς ἡδονῆς χάριν τὴν μεγίστην τιμὴν καὶ δόξαν ἀπώλεσε , Chrys.)  as Esau, who for (on  ἀντί , see on Heb 12:2 )  one meal sold (the use of  ἀποδίδομαι , middle, for  to sell , is common in good Greek)  his own birthright (‘rights of primogeniture:’ τὰ πρωτοτόκια or - εῖα is the usual word in the LXX for the Heb. בְּכוֹרָה or מִשְׁפַט הַבְּכוֹרָה , see Gen 25:31-34 ; 1 Chronicles 5:1 ; Deuteronomy 21:17 . The Greeks use for it ἡ πρεσβεία or τὸ πρεσβεῖον : Josephus has this last in this narrative, Antt. ii. 1. 1, and the LXX in Genesis 43:33 . The reflexive  ἑαυτοῦ , which must be read, may seem to be superfluous; but it serves to intensify the unworthiness of the act).