 27 .]  But (now)  this yet once (more) (Hengstenberg’s idea that the Writer lays no stress on ἔτι ἅπαξ , but, in citing these words, means in fact the whole of the prophecy (“this, ἔτι ἅπαξ κ . τ . λ .”), is evidently absurd. It is  on these words that the Writer’s argument depends, there being nothing in the following words of the prophecy to imply this removing, but only in the ἔτι ἅπαξ . Still as Delitzsch well argues, the argument does not stand and fall with the ἔτι ἅπαξ of the LXX. The great final shaking which is to introduce the accomplished kingdom of God is at all events that after which there shall be no other. At this the words ἔτι ἅπαξ point: but it does not rest on them for its proof)  indicates (see ch. Hebrews 9:8 , note)  the removal of the things shaken, as of things which have been made, in order that the things which are not (i. e. cannot be, which the μή hints at)  shaken may abide (three ways of taking this sentence are grammatically and philologically possible. 1. That given above, to the consideration of which I will presently return. 2. We may join  ἵνα &c., not with the fact pointed at, the μετάθεσις τῶν σαλευομένων , as its purpose, but with  πεποιημένων , ‘as of things which have been made in order that the things which cannot be shaken may remain:’ i. e. the scope of Creation has been, the establishing of the kingdom of Redemption: that it, the transitory and baseless, may pass away when its work is fulfilled, and give place to that which shall never pass away. This view is strongly taken by Delitzsch, after Grotius, Bengel, Tholuck, al. Before discussing it, we may notice and dismiss (3), which is a mere variety of it, and consists in taking  μένειν in the sense of “to await,” or “wait for,” “as of things which have been made in order that they should wait for the things which cannot be shaken.” So Paul Bauldry in 1699 (see Wolf, Curæ, p. 795, h. l.), Storr, Böhme, Kuinoel, Klee. But, though μένειν does undoubtedly occur in this sense in Acts 20:5 ; Acts 20:23 , yet the usage of this Epistle is for the other sense, cf. ch. Hebrews 7:3 ; Hebrews 7:24 ; Hebrews 10:34 ; Hebrews 13:14 . And another objection to this meaning seems to me to be, that in this case it would not be the aorist μείνῃ , indicating the final purpose as expressed once for all, but the present μένῃ , indicating the continuous attitude of expectancy. So that, although the sense would thus be good, and altogether according to St. Paul m Romans 8:18-25 , we must pass this by, for the  absolute sense of μείνῃ , may abide, endure: cf. Acts 27:41 , ἔμεινεν ἀσάλευτος : and Isaiah 66:22 , ὃν τρόπον ὁ οὐρανὸς καινὸς καὶ ἡ γῆ καινή , ἃ ἐγὼ ποιῶ ,  μένει ἐνώπιον ἐμοῦ κ . τ . λ . Nor again can I accede to (2), beautiful as is the thought, and strictly true, that Creation was made but to subserve Redemption: the things removeable, to give place to the things unremoveable. For, α . the word μείνῃ will thus have an exceedingly awkward elliptic sense, “that the things which cannot be shaken may remain,” i. e. “may come into the place of those removed, and thus abide for ever:” for things which cannot be shaken  remaining merely, would be a matter of course. This is confessed by Grot.: “nam in id facta est hæc quam videmus machina, ut olim alteri meliori et non immutandæ locum faciat.” But certainly this does not lie in the word μείνῃ . β . The logical propriety as well as the rhythm of the sentence is thus destroyed. For we should on this rendering have the ἵνα clause entirely subordinated to the πεποιημένων , and indicating, not the purpose of the main action of the sentence, but that of the creation, a matter lying quite out of the present record. Certainly, if this were the meaning, we should have had the part. πεποιημένων introduced with a καί , as is generally done when an outlying circumstance is taken into account by the way: as e. g. in 1 Peter 2:8 , οἳ προσκόπτουσιν , τῷ λόγῳ ἀπειθοῦντες , εἰς ὃ καὶ ἐτέθησαν . Besides which, I should have expected in this case the aor. part., not the perf., the ἵνα of purpose relating to the time when the Creation took place, rather than to its subsistence since then. So that it seems to me, we must fall back on (1), viz. the making ἵνα belong to μετάθεσιν , the action of the sentence. This, it is true, is not without difficulty. For, α . even thus we must go some little out of our way for a sense for μείνῃ , though not so far as in the other case. μείνῃ must then mean,  may remain over , when the σαλευόμενα are gone: may be permanently left: to which sense there is no objection in Greek any more than in English, but it does not exactly fit the requirements of the sentence: β . if πεποιημένων be taken absolutely, “as of things which have been made,” we might be met by the ἃ ἐγὼ ποιῶ in the citation from Isa 66:22 above, to shew that the new heavens and the new earth are also πεποιημένα : see also Isaiah 65:17-18 . The answer to this must be, though I own it is not altogether a satisfactory one, that the ποιεῖσθαι is not the same in the two cases: that this word carries rather with it χειροποίητος , ταύτης τῆς κτίσεως , as that word is explained ch. Hebrews 9:11 ; whereas the other ποιῶ rests in the almighty power of God, by which the spirit-world as well as the world of sense was called into existence. See by all means, on the whole, Luk 21:26 ).