 26 .]  whose voice (see on last verse)  shook the earth then ( ὅτε , φησί , ἐνομοθέτει ἐν τῷ ὄρει τῷ Σινᾷ . So in ref. Judg., in Deborah’s Song, γῆ ἐσείσθη … ὄρη ἐσαλεύθησαν ἀπὸ προσώπου κυρίου ἐλωΐ , τοῦτο Σινᾶ ἀπὸ προσώπου κυρίου θεοῦ Ἰσραήλ . Cf. ref. Ps. In Exodus 19:18 , where the E. V. has after the Heb., “the whole mount quaked greatly,” the LXX render, καὶ ἐξέστη πᾶς ὁ λαὸς σφόδρα : reading, perhaps, with some Hebrew mss., הָעָם instead of הָהָר .  σαλεύειν is intransitive as well as transitive in the classics (e. g. Soph. Œd. Tyr. 23), but in Hellenistic Greek transitive only: see reff. Some take this shaking of the earth to be meant of a figurative excitement of men’s minds: so Justiniani (“Ait Apostolus divinam vocem tunc movisse terram, cum angeli opera tam multa signa in monte Sinai edidit, quæ non modo ingentem admirationem pepererunt, sed non exiguum incusserunt terrorem: nonnullam etiam lætitiam attulerunt bonis, quod legem ab ipso Deo immortali acciperent”), Estius. But there can be little doubt, that the material explanation is the true one. The so-called pentameter, οὗ ἡ φωνὴ τὴν γῆν ἐσάλευσε τότε , could hardly have been observed, but by one whose eye was quicker than his ear),  but now ( νῦν , not only  ut res nunc se habent , but here in a more temporal sense, as opposed to τότε :  now , under the prophetic revelations since the captivity, under the N. T. dispensation in which those prophecies will find their fulfilment)  hath He (God: see above)  promised (perf. pass., in middle sense, see ref. and Winer, § 39. 3. Cf. also Acts 13:2 ; Acts 16:10 ; Acts 25:12 ; Exo 3:18 al. Böhme and Vater would render it passive, “hath it been promised:” but λέγων following, though it might suit the style of the Apocalypse, will not agree with the careful precision of our Epistle),  saying, Yet once (more), and I will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven . The prophecy in Haggai is uttered, like the whole of his prophecies, with reference to the second temple, which was then rising out of the ruins of the first, smaller indeed and poorer, but destined to witness greater glories. It was to be the scene of the last revelation of Jehovah to His people: and the house of David, then so low, was to rise above the ruins of the thrones of the earth, and endure as the signet on God’s right hand ( Hag 2:21-23 ). It is this ruin of earthly powers, this antitypical shaking of the earth and all that is in it, after the typical material shaking at Sinai, of which the Prophet speaks. And the result of this shaking was to be, that the best treasures of all nations (not to be understood personally of Christ, but as LXX, ἥξει τὰ ἐκλεκτὰ πάντων τῶν ἐθνῶν ), should be brought to adorn that temple. The expression here (as in LXX) rendered ἔτι ἅπαξ κ . τ . λ . is in the Heb. עוֹד אַחַת מְעַט הִיא וְ , i. e., as in E. V. (see Hofmann, Weissag. u. Erfüll. i. 330, and Hitzig in loc.), “Yet once, it is a little while, and:” i. e. the period which shall elapse shall be but one, not admitting of being broken into many; and that one, but short. Thus the prophecy seems to point to the same great final bringing of all the earth under the Kingdom of God, which is spoken of in Zechariah 14:0 when the Lord shall come and all his saints with Him, the great antitype of Sinai (cf. Deu 33:2 ), so often the subject of ancient prophecy. See this more fully entered upon in Hofmann, as above, and in Delitzsch’s note here. It is clearly wrong, with some interpreters, to understand this shaking of the mere breaking down of Judaism before the gospel, or of any thing which shall be fulfilled  during the Christian œconomy, short of its glorious end and accomplishment. The οὐ μόνον , ἀλλὰ καί , which the Writer has substituted for the simple καί of the LXX, is adopted for the sake of bringing out the point which is before him, the earth, and the speaking from the earth, on the one hand, the heaven, and the speaking from the heaven, on the other. But the οὐρανός here, that is to be shaken, is the material heaven stretched above this earth.