 3 .]  For (q. d. and there is reason in what I say; ἀφορῶντες &c., for He like yourselves had much and continual conflict with the sinners of His day.  γάρ is not as Lünem., “  Yea ,” merely strengthening the imperative: I heartily concur with the dictum of Hermann, cited here by Delitzsch: “  γάρ semper reddit rationem antecedentis sententiæ vel expressæ vel intellectæ”)  compare (with yourselves.  ἀναλογίσασθε is very difficult to express in English. It is as Bengel, “comparatione instituta cogitare,” “to think on, by way of comparison.” So Plato, Theæt. p. 186 A, ἀναλογιζομένη ἐν ἑαυτῇ τὰ γεγονό καὶ τὰ παρόντα πρὸς τὰ μέλλοντα (  comparing ): Diod. Sic. xx. 8, τὸ μέγεθος τοῦ διείργοντος πελάγους ἀναλογιζόμενοι , τὴν σωτηρίαν ἀπεγίνωσκον (  reputantes , bethinking themselves of, comparing with their power to cross it). So here it is, consider Him as set in comparison with yourselves. If the word to ‘  ponder ’ had any trace left of its primitive meaning, it might serve; but it has now become equivalent to ‘  meditate ’)  Him who hath endured (perf. part. again, to set before them Christ as not merely a character of the past, but one ever present)  such contradiction (  ἀντιλογία need not be confined to  words : see note on ch. Hebrews 6:16 , and cf. ref. John, ἀντιλέγει τῷ Καίσαρι . Œc. says, ἀντιλογίαν δέ φησι τὸν γέλωτα , τὰς πληγάς , τὰς χλευασίας , καὶ ὅσα ἀντέλεγον τοῖς αὐτοῦ δόγμασι καὶ διδάγμασι , καὶ τὰς ἐπὶ τοῦ Πιλάτου κραυγάς . And so Chrys. and Thl. Lünemann in vain denies this sense of ἀντιλογία and ἀντιλέγειν : see reff., and Bleek’s and Delitzsch’s notes)  by the sinners against Himself (i. e. by those who sinned against Him. Whether ἑαυτόν or αὐτόν be read, the sense will be the same. Beware of Ebrard’s strange interpretation, given below on τὴν ἁμαρτίαν : “All mankind would be opposed to Christ as  the sinners (the  class of sinners); but the enemies of the gospel could not be opposed to the readers of the Epistle as  the sinners , seeing that those readers themselves were sinners.” All such notions of οἱ ἁμαρτωλοί arise from wrongly connecting εἰς ἑαυτόν , which follows ἁμαρτωλῶν and not ἀντιλογίαν . So ἥμαρτον εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν Luke 15:18 ; Luke 15:21 . See also Luke 17:4 ; Act 25:8 ),  that ye weary not (reff.),  fainting in your souls (  ταῖς ψ  .   ὑμῶν may be joined either with κάμητε or with ἐκλυόμενοι . In ref. Job, we have κάμνων τῇ ψυχῇ μου : and ἐκλύεσθαι τῇ ψυχῇ is found in Polyb. ref., and xx. 4. 7, οὐ μόνον τοῖς σώμασιν ἐξελύθησαν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ταῖς ψυχαῖς . So also in Diod. Sic. xx. 1, διὰ τὸ μῆκος καὶ τὴν ἀκαιρίαν τοῦ συγγραφέως ἐκλυθέντες τὰς ψυχάς . And this latter is preferable, on account of the rhythm, and the improbability of the participle standing thus alone at the end of the sentence).