 24 .]  and to the mediator of the latter covenant (  νέας , not = καινῆς . νέος is  recens : καινός ,  novus : νέος , the more objective word, καινός , the more subjective. But this must not be taken exclusively.  νέος carries with it the freshness of youth, and is the livelier, more graphic word. See reff., esp. Col. In ch. Heb 9:15 our Lord is characterized as διαθήκης καινῆς μεσίτης ),  Jesus (the mention of the δίκαιοι τετελειωμένοι at once introduces that of Him who was Himself τετελειωμένος , ch. Hebrews 2:10 , and who is the τελειωτὴς τῆς πίστεως , Hebrews 12:2 . Cf. ch. Hebrews 7:22 . Our Writer especially loves to use the name JESUS. To  Christ , all that is predicated of our Lord belonged officially: but when it is predicated of Jesus, it becomes personal fact, realized in one whom we know and who loves us. That Christ is the mediator of the new covenant, is a theological truth: that Jesus is, is a glorious token of God’s love manifested to us men),  and to the blood of sprinkling (naturally following on the mention of διαθήκη , for no διαθήκη is consecrated without blood, ch. Hebrews 9:18 ; Hebrews 9:22 . And if Moses had blood wherewith to sprinkle the people, much more Jesus, of whom Moses was a shadow. And therefore the Writer, enumerating the great differences of our Sion from their Sinai, though he has not recounted their blood of sprinkling, as not being worthy of mention in the face of the terrors of God’s law, mentions ours, by which we were redeemed unto God, and assigns it a place in the heavenly city, next to, but separate from, Jesus Himself in His glorified state. If we come to enquire how this can be, we enter on an interesting but high and difficult subject, on which learned and holy men have been much divided. Our Lord’s Blood was shed from Him on the Cross. And as His Body did not see corruption, it is obvious to suppose, that His Blood did not corrupt as that of ordinary men, being as it is so important a portion of the body. Hence, and because His resurrection Body seems to have been bloodless, see Luke 24:39 ; John 20:27 , and notes, some have supposed that the Blood of the Lord remains, as it was poured out, incorruptible, in the presence of God. On such a matter I would neither affirm nor deny, but mention, with all reverence, that which seems to suit the requirements of the words before us. By that Blood we live, wherever it is: but as here it is mentioned separately from the Lord Himself, as an item in the glories of the heavenly city, and as “yet speaking,” it seems to require some such view to account for the words used. Bengel has here a long excursus on the point, in which he takes strongly the above view. Chrys. also seems to have done so, Hom. xxxiii. on Hebrews 13:0 ., vol. xii. p. 229, where the text is in some confusion, but Mutianus seems to have expressed the sense (p. 447): “Foris quippe passus est, sed ad cœlum sanguis sublatus est” ( εἰς τὸν οὐρανὸν τὸ αἷμα ἀνηνέχθη ). The blood of Christ is called αἷμα  ῥαντισμοῦ , inasmuch as, like that sacrificial blood of old materially, it is spiritually sprinkled on the conscience of those who come unto God by Him, cf. ch. Hebrews 9:13 ff.; Hebrews 10:22 ; Heb 13:12 )  speaking better (  κρεῖττον adverbially: as in 1 Corinthians 7:38 , κρεῖσσον ποιεῖν is opposed to καλῶς ποιεῖν . And the adverb refers not to the  manner of the speaking (as Thdrt., διὰ τῶν πραγμάτων φθεγγόμενον : Chrys., τοῦτο γὰρ πάντας ἐκάθηρε , καὶ φωνὴν ἀφίησι λαμπροτέραν καὶ εὐσημοτέραν , ὅσῳ μείζονα τὴν μαρτυρίαν ἔχει τὴν διὰ τῶν πραγμάτων : and Schol.-Matthæi, τὸ μὲν γὰρ τοῦ Ἀβὲλ ᾄδεται μόνον , τοῦτο δὲ ἐνεργεῖ τὴν τῶν ἀνθρώπων σωτηρίαν . This accords with their understanding of λαλεῖ above in ch. Heb 11:4 ), but to the matter spoken. So, after Cyr.-alex. de Adorat. in Spir., and ver. xv., vol. i. p. 528, Œc., τὸ μὲν γὰρ Ἀβὲλ αἷμα κατακεκράγει τοῦ φονευτοῦ , τὸ δὲ χριστοῦ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν λαλεῖ πρὸς τὸν πατέρα : “ille flagitabat ultionem, hic impetrat remissionem,” Erasm. (par.). And so most later Commentators. Delitzsch unites both views)  than Abel (not, “  than that of Abel :” for in ch. Hebrews 11:4 , it is Abel himself who speaks, in his blood: see note there).