 27.   εὐνοῦχος ] The very general use of eunuchs in the East for filling offices of confidence, and the fact that this man was minister to a female sovereign, makes it probable that he was literally an eunuch. If not so, the word would hardly have been expressed. No difficulty arises from Deuteronomy 23:1 , for no inference can be drawn from the history further than that he may have been a proselyte of the gate, in whose case the prohibition would not apply. Nay, the whole occurrence seems to have had one design, connected with this fact. The walls of partition were one after another being thrown down: the Samaritans were already in full possession of the Gospel: it was next to be shewn that none of those physical incapacities which excluded from the congregation of the Lord under the old covenant, formed any bar to Christian baptism and the inheritance among believers; and thus the way gradually paved for the great and as yet incomprehensible truth of Galatians 3:28 .
	 Κανδάκης ] As Pharaoh among the Egyptians was the customary name of kings, so Candăce of the Queens among the Æthiopians in upper Egypt ( Αἰθίοπες ὑπὲρ Αἰγύπτου οἰκοῦντες , Dio Cass. liv. 5), in the island of Meroe, Plin. vi. 29, where he says, ‘Ipsum oppidum Meroen ab introitu insulæ abesse LXX m. pass.… Regnare fœminam Candacen, quod nomen multis jam annis ad reginas transiit.… Cæterum cum potirentur rerum Æthiopes, insula ea magnæ claritatis fuit.’
	 γάζης ] A Persian term. Q. Curt. iii. 13. 5, ‘pecuniam regiam, quam  gazam Persæ vocant.’ See Virg. Æn. i.119.
	 ὃς ἐληλύθει  … ] This did not only Jews and proselytes, but also those pious Gentiles who adhered to Judaism, the proselytes of the gate, see John 12:20 . Euseb. ii. 1, prope fin., speaking of this eunuch says, ὃν  πρῶτον ἐξ ἐθνῶν πρὸς τοῦ Φιλίππου δι ʼ ἐπιφανείας τὰ τοῦ θείου λόγου ὄργια μετασχόντα , τῶν τε ἀνὰ τὴν οἰκουμένην πιστῶν ἀ  παρχὴν γενόμενον κ . τ . λ ., taking for granted that he was a Gentile. There were (see below, ch. Act 11:21 ) cases of Gentile conversion before that of Cornelius; and the stress of the narrative in ch. 10 consists in the miscellaneous admission of all the Gentile company of Cornelius, and their official reception into the church by that Apostle to whom was especially given the power. We may remark, that if even the plain revelation by which the reception of Cornelius and his company was commanded failed finally to convince Peter, so that long after this he vacillated ( Gal 2:11-12 ), it is no argument for the eunuch not being a Gentile, that his conversion and baptism did not remove the prejudices of the Jewish Christians.