 36.   τὶ ὕδωρ ] In the scholia to Jerome’s Epitaph of Paula (not in Jerome himself) on the words, ‘A Bethsur venit,’ we have, ‘hæc ætate Hieronymi vocabatur Bethsura: vicus est in tribu Juda, obvius vigesimo lapide euntibus ab Hierosolyma Chebron. Juxta hunc fons est ad radices montis ebulliens, qui ab eadem in qua gignitur humo sorbetur. In hoc fonte putant eunuchum Candacis Reginæ baptizatum fuisse.’ Jerome’s own words (Ep. 108 (27) ad Eustochium, 11, p. 700) are: ‘cœpit per viam veterem pergere quæ ducit Gazam … et tacita secum volvere, quomodo Eunuchus Æthiops, gentium populos præfigurans, mutaverit pellem suam, et dum vetus relegit instrumentum fontem reperit Evangelii. Atque inde ad dexteram transit. A Bethsur venit Escol’ … where no reference is made to the tradition, save what may be inferred from the mention of Bethsur. Eusebius also ( περὶ τόπων ) states it to be twenty miles south of Jerusalem in the direction of Hebron: and so it is set down in the Jerus. Itin. and the Peutinger Tab. (Howson’s map.) Pocock found there a fountain built over, and a village called Betur on the left. Fabri describes the fountain as the head of a considerable brook, and found near it the ruins of a Christian church. There is no improbability in the tradition except that, even supposing a way going across from Hebron straight to Gaza to be called ἔρημος , this would not be on that portion of it, but on the high road (Winer, Realw.).
	 τί κωλ  .   μ  .   βαπ  . ] There is no reason for supposing Philip to have preached to him the necessity of baptism: his own acquaintance with Jewish practices, and perhaps his knowledge of the progress of the new faith in Jerusalem, would account for the proposition.
	[  37. ] The authorities against this verse are too strong to permit its insertion. It appears to have been one of those remarkable additions to the text of the Acts, common in D (which is here deficient) and its cognates: few of which, however, have found their way into the received text. This was made very early, as Irenæus has it. The manuscripts which contain it vary exceedingly: another strong mark of spuriousness in a disputed passage. See var. readd. Wordsw. retains it, citing Bornemann as doing the same; but it is Bornemann’s principle that all these insertions of D and its cognates formed part of the original text: so that his authority goes for nothing. Wordsw. also states that it is found in the codex amiatinus of the vulgate, which  it is not , except as a correction a secunda manu.]