 14 24. ] MISSION OF PETER AND JOHN TO SAMARIA. A question arises on this procedure of the Apostles: whether it was as a matter of course, that the newly baptized should, by the laying on of hands subsequently, receive the Holy Ghost, or whether there was in the case of these Samaritans any thing peculiar, which caused the Apostles to go down to them and perform this act. (1) The only analogous case is ch. Acts 19:5-6 ; in using which we must observe that there it is distinctly asserted that the  miraculous gifts of the Spirit followed the laying on of Paul’s hands; and that by the expression ἰδών in Acts 8:18 , which must be taken literally, the same is implied here. And on this point the remarks of Calvin are too important to be omitted: ‘Hic occurrit quæstio. Dicit enim tantum  fuisse baptizatos in nomine Christi, atque ideo nondum fuisse Spiritus participes. Atqui vel inanem et omni virtute et gratia carere Baptismum oportet, aut a Spiritu sancto habere quicquid efficaciæ habet. In Baptismo abluimur a peccatis: atqui lavacrum nostrum Spiritus sancti opus esse docet Paulus ( Tit 3:5 ). Aqua Baptismi sanguinis Christi symbolum est: atqui Petrus Spiritum esse prædicat, a quo irrigamur Christi sanguine ( 1Pe 1:2 ). In Baptismo crucifigitur vetus noster homo, ut suscitemur in vitæ novitatem ( Rom 6:6 ): unde autem hoc totum, nisi ex sanctificatione Spiritus? Denique Baptismo nihil reliquum fiet, si a Spiritu separetur. Ergo Samaritanos, qui vere Christum in Baptismo induerant, Spiritu quoque vestitos fuisse negandum non est ( Gal 3:27 ). Et sane Lucas hic non de communi Spiritus gratia loquitur, qua nos sibi Deus in filios regenerat, sed de singularibus illis donis, quibus Dominus initio Evangelii quosdam esse præditos voluit ad ornandum Christi regnum.’ And a little after: … ‘Papistæ, dum ficticiam suam confirmationem extollere volunt, in hanc sacrilegam vocem prorumpere non dubitant, semichristianos esse, quibus manus nondum fuerunt impositæ. (See this asserted by Wordsworth, in loc. p. 40, Colossians 2:0 , bottom.) Hoc jam tolerabile non est, quod quum symbolum hoc temporale esset, ipsi perpetuam legem finxerunt in Ecclesia.… Atqui fateri coguntur ipsi quoque, Ecclesiam nonnisi ad tempus donis istis fuisse ornatam. Unde sequitur, impositionem manuum, qua usi sunt Apostoli, finem habuisse, quum effectus cessavit’ (in loc.). And yet after this, Wordsw. refers to “Calvin here,” “in whose opinion,” says R. Nelson, “this passage in the Acts  shews that Confirmation was instituted by the Apostles .” This example may serve to suggest extreme caution in trusting to Wordsw.’s reports of the opinions of the Fathers and ecclesiastical writers. The English church, in retaining the rite of confirmation,  has not grounded it on any institution by the Apostles , but merely declared the laying on of hands on the candidates, to certify them (by this sign) of God’s favour and goodness towards them, to be, ‘  after the example of the holy Apostles.’ Nor is there any trace in the office, of the  conferring of the Holy Ghost by confirmation; but a distinct recognition of the  former reception of the Holy Spirit (at Baptism), and a prayer for the increase of His influence, proportioned to the maturer life now opening on the newly confirmed. (2) If then we have here  no institution of a perpetual ordinance , something peculiar to the case before us must have prompted this journey. And here again we have a question: Was that moving cause in the Samaritans, or in Philip? I believe the true answer to the question will be found by combining both. Our Lord’s command (ch. Act 1:8 ) had removed all doubt as to Samaria being a legitimate field for preaching, and Samaritan converts being admissible. (So also with regard to Gentile converts, see ch. 10, notes: but, as the church at this time believed, they must be  circumcised , which the Samaritans already were, and  keep the law , which after their manner the Samaritans did.) The sudden appearance, however, of a body of baptized believers in Samaria, by the agency of one who was  not one of the Apostles , while it would excite in them every feeling of thankfulness and joy, would require their presence and power, as Apostles, to perform their especial part as the divinely appointed Founders of the Church. Add to this, that the Samaritans appear to have been credulous, and easily moved to attach themselves to individuals, whether it were Simon, or Philip; which might make the Apostles desirous to be present in person, and examine, and strengthen their faith. Another reason may have been not without its influence: the Jewish church at Jerusalem would naturally for the most part be alienated in mind from this new body of believers. The hatred between Jews and Samaritans was excessive and unrelenting. It would therefore be in the highest degree important that it should be shewn to the church at Jerusalem, that these Samaritans, by the agency of the same Apostles, were partakers of the same visibly testified gifts of the one Spirit. The use of this argument, which was afterwards applied by Peter in the case of the Gentiles, unexpected even by himself, ch. Acts 11:17 , was probably no small part of the purpose of this journey to Samaria.