 9.   Σίμων ] Neander, in the course of some excellent remarks on this whole history (see further on Act 8:14 ), identifies, and I believe with reason, this Simon with one mentioned as living from ten to twenty years after this by Josephus, Antt. xx. 7. 2, καθ ʼ ὃν καιρὸν τῆς Ἰουδαίας ἐπετρόπευσε Φῆλιξ , θεασάμενος ταύτην (Drusilla) … λαμβάνει τῆς γυναικὸς ἐπιθυμίαν , καὶ Σίμωνα ὀνόματι , τῶν ἑαυτῷ φίλων , Ἰουδαῖον , κύπριον δὲ γένος , μάγον εἶναι σκηπτόμενον , τέμπων πρὸς αὐτὴν ἔπειθε τὸν ἄνδρα καταλιποῦσαν αὐτῷ γήμασθαι . The only difficulty seems to be, that Simon is stated by Justin Martyr, himself a Samaritan, to have been Σαμαρέα , ἀπὸ κώμης λεγομένης Γίττων . But it has struck me that either Justin, or perhaps more probably Josephus, may have confounded Ghittim with Chittim, i.e. Citium in Cyprus. This conjecture I also find mentioned in the Dict. of Biography and Mythology, sub voce. The account in Josephus is quite in character with what we here read of Simon: not inconsistent (Meyer) with Acts 8:24 , which appears to have been uttered under terror occasioned by the solemn denunciation of Peter.
	Justin goes on to relate that he was worshipped as a God at Rome in the time of Claudius Cæsar, on account of his magical powers, and had a statue on the island in the Tiber, inscribed ‘Simoni Deo Sancto.’ Singularly enough, in the year 1574, a stone was found in the Tiber (or  standing on the island in the year 1662, according to the Dict. of Biogr. and Myth.), with the inscription SEMONI SANCO DEO FIDIO SACRVM, i.e. to the God Semo Sancus, the Sabine Hercules, which makes it probable that Justin may have been misled.
	The history of Simon is full of legend and fable. The chief sources of it are the Recognitiones and Clementina of the pseudo-Clemens. He is there said to have studied at Alexandria, and to have been, with the heresiarch Dositheus, a disciple of John the Baptist. Of Dositheus he became first the disciple, and then the successor. Origen (in Matt. Comm. § 33, vol. iii. p. 851) makes Dositheus also a Samaritan: so also contra Cels. i. 57, vol. i. p. 372, and Hom. xxv. in Luc. vol. iii. p. 962. His own especial followers (Simoniani) had dwindled so much in the time of Origen, that he says νυνὶ δὲ τοὺς πάντας ἐν τῇ οἰκουμένῃ οὐκ ἔστι Σιμωνιανοὺς εὑρεῖν τὸν ἀριθμὸν οἶμαι τριάκοντα . καὶ τάχα πλείονας εἶπον τῶν ὄντων , contra Cels. ubi supra; see also ib. vi. 11, p. 638, and περὶ ἀρχῶν , iv. 17, p. 176. In the Becognitiones and the Clementina are long reports of subsequent controversies between Simon Magus and Peter, of which the scene is laid at Cæsarea. According to Arnobius (adv. Gentes, ii. 12, p. 828 ed. Migne), the Constt. Apostol. (ii. 14, p. 620; vi. 9, p. 932 ed. Migne), and Cyril of Jerusalem, he met with his death at Rome, having, during an encounter with Peter, raised himself into the air by the aid of evil spirits, and being precipitated thence at the prayer of Peter and Paul. [I saw in the church of S. Francesca Romana in the forum, a stone with two dents in it and this inscription, “On this stone rested the knees of S. Peter when the dæmons carried Simon Magus through the air.”] The fathers generally regard him as the founder of Gnosticism: this may be in some sense true: but, from the very little authentic information we possess, it is impossible to ascertain how far he was identified with their tenets. Origen (contra Cels. v. 62, p. 625) distinctly denies that his followers were Christians in any sense: λανθάνει τὸν Κέλσον , ὅτι οὐδαμῶς τὸν Ἰησοῦν ὁμολογοῦσιν υἱὸν θεοῦ Σιμωνιανοί , ἀλλὰ δύναμιν θεοῦ λέγουσι τὸν Σίμωνα .
	 μαγεύων ] Not to be joined with προϋπῆρχεν (as in E. V. and Kuin.), which belongs to ἐν πόλει :  exercising magic arts , such as then were very common in the East and found wide acceptance; impostors taking advantage of the very general expectation of a Deliverer at this time, to set themselves up by means of such trickeries as ‘some great ones.’ We have other examples in Elymas (ch. 13): Apollonius of Tyana; and somewhat later, Alexander of Abonoteichos: see these latter in Dict. of Biogr. and Myth.
	 τινὰ μέγαν ] Probably not in such definite terms as his followers later are represented as putting into his mouth: ‘Ego sum sermo Dei … ego paracletus, ego omnipotens, ego omnia Dei.’ Jerome on Matthew 24:5 , vol. vii. p. 193.