 26. ] An angel,  visibly appearing : not in a dream, which is not, as some suppose, implied by ἀνάστηθι , see reff. The ministration of angels introduces and brings about several occurrences in the beginning of the church, see ch. Acts 5:19 ; Acts 10:3 ; Acts 12:7 ( Act 27:23 ). The appearance seems to have taken place in Samaria, after the departure of Peter and John; see above, on the imperfects.
	He would reach the place appointed by a shorter way than through Jerusalem: he would probably follow the high road (of the itineraries, see map in Conybeare and Howson’s St. Paul) as far as Gophna, and thence strike across the country south-westward, to join, at some point to which he would be guided, the road leading from Jerusalem to Gaza.
	 Γάζαν ] The southernmost city of Canaan ( Gen 10:19 ), in the portion of Judah ( Jos 15:47 ), but soon taken from that tribe by the Philistines, and always spoken of as a Philistian city (1 Samuel 6:17 ; 2 Kings 18:8 ; Amos 1:6-8 ; Zephaniah 2:4 ; Zec 9:5 ). In Jeremiah 47:1 , we have ‘before Pharaoh (Necho?) smote Gaza,’ implying that at one time it was under Egypt. Alexander the Great took it after a siege of five months (Q. Curt. iv. 6, 7. Arrian, Alex. ii. 26), but did not destroy it (as Strabo relates in error, xvi. 759, see below in this note), for we find it a strong place in the subsequent Syrian wars, see 1 Macc ( 1Ma 9:52 ) 1Ma 11:61 , f.; 1Ma 13:43 ( 1Ma 14:7 ; 1Ma 15:28 ; 1Ma 16:1 ); Jos. Antt. xiii. 5. 5; 13. 3 al. It was destroyed by the Jewish king Alexander Jannæus (96 A.C.), Jos. Antt. xiii. 13. 3, after a siege of a year, but rebuilt again by the Roman general Gabinius (Antt. xiv. 5. 3), afterwards given by Augustus to Herod (xv. 7. 3), and finally after his death attached to the province of Syria (xvii. 11. 4). Mela, in the time of Claudius, calls it ‘ingens urbs et munita admodum,’ with which agree Eusebius and Jerome. At present it is a large town by the same name, with from 15,000 to 16,000 inhabitants (Robinson, ii. 640). The above chronological notices shew that it cannot have been ἔρημος at this time: see below.
	 αὕτη ἐστὶν ἔρημος ] The words, I believe, of the  angel , not of Luke. There appear to have been two (if not more) ways from Jerusalem to Gaza. The Antonine itinerary passes from Jerus. to Eleutheropolis Askalon Gaza. The Peutinger Table, Jerus. Ceperaria Eleutheropolis Askalon Gaza. But Robinson (ii. 748. Winer, Realw.) found an ancient road leading  direct from Jerusalem to Gaza, through the  Wadi Musurr , and over the Beit Jiibrin, which certainly  at present is ἔρημος , without towns or villages. Thus the words will refer to  the way : and denote  the way of which I speak to thee is desert (Schöttg. cites from Arrian, iii. p. 211, ἐρήμην δὲ εἶναι τὴν ὁδὸν δι ʼ ἀνυδρίαν ). Besides the above objection to applying ἔρημος to  Gaza , there could be no possible reason for adding such a specification here, seeing that Gaza had nothing to do with the object of the journey, and the  road would be designated  the road from Jerusalem to Gaza , whether the latter city was inhabited, or in ruins.
	Those who apply ἔρημος to Gaza, have various ways of reconciling the apparent discrepancy with history: most of them follow Bede [54] ’s explanation, that the  ancient city was ἔρημος , and that the Gaza of this day was another town nearer the sea. But how this helps the matter I cannot perceive, unless we are to suppose that the deserted Gaza and the inhabited Gaza were so far apart that it was necessary to specify which was meant, because there would be from Jerusalem two different roads, of which no trace is found, nor could it well be. Some again suppose (Hug, al.) that the Acts were written after the  second Gaza was destroyed (Jos. B. J. ii.18.1), just before the destruction of Jerusalem, and that Luke inserts this notice: but to what purpose? and why  no more such notices? In the passage of Strabo, commonly cited to support the application of ἔρημος to Gaza, ἔνδοξός ποτε γενομένη , κατεσπασμένη δ ʼ ὑπὸ Ἀλεξάνδρου (the Great, according to Strabo, which it  was not ) καὶ μένουσα ἔρημος , the last three words are wanting in some edd. and are supposed to have been  a gloss from the Acts . Others suppose ἔρημος to signify ‘  unfortified ,’ which standing alone it cannot. Besides, this notice would be wholly irrelevant; and would probably not have been true, see Mela above. The objection of Meyer to the interpretation given above, that if ἔρημ . referred to ἡ ὁδός , the article would be expressed, is not valid: the emphasis is on αὕτη ; ‘  that way , of which I speak, is desert:’ not, ‘is the desert one:’ no reference is made to the other.
	 [54] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.