 1.   συνευδ  . ] See reff.: and compare his own confession, ch. Acts 26:9-11 . From this time, the narrative takes up Saul, and, at first with considerable interruptions (ch. 8, 10, 11, 12.), but after ch. Act 13:1 entirely, follows his history.
	 ἐν ἐκ  .   τῇ ἡμ . can hardly mean, as some (Dr. Burton, De Wette, Meyer, Stier) would render it, on  that very day , viz. when Stephen was stoned. For what follows, πάντες δὲ διεσπάρησαν … cannot have happened on the same day, but would take some little time: and it is hardly allowable to render ἐγένετο ‘  broke out .’ We have ἐν ἐκ . τῇ ἡμέρᾳ used indefinitely, Luke 6:23 ; John 14:20 ; John 16:23 ; John 16:26 . In Luk 17:31 it has direct reference to a ἡμέρα just mentioned.
	 πάντες ] Not perhaps  literally , or some of them soon returned: see ch. Acts 9:26-30 . It may describe the  general dispersion, without meaning that every individual fled.
	 Σαμαρείας ] Connected with Acts 8:4 ; this word is not without importance, as introducing the  next step in the dissemination of the Gospel , according to our Lord’s command in ch. Acts 1:8 .
	 πλὴν τῶν ἀποστόλων ] Perhaps, from their exalted position of veneration by the people, the persecution did not extend to them: perhaps they remained, as possessed of superior firmness and devotion. But this latter reason is hardly applicable, after the command of our Lord, ‘When they persecute you in one city, flee to another.’ Matthew 10:23 . Stier (Reden d. Apostel, i. 253) refers their remaining to an intimation of the Spirit, to stay and strengthen those who were left ( ἑτέρους γενέσθαι θράσους αἴτιοι , Chrys.). Mr. Humphry (Comm. on Acts) cites an ancient tradition, mentioned by Clem [52] Alex., Strom. vi. 5 [43], end, p. 762 P, from the Prædicatio Petri (and by Euseb. H. E. Act 8:18 ), that the Apostles were ordered by our Lord to remain at Jerusalem twelve years: φησὶν ὁ Πέτρος εἰρηκέναι τὸν κύριον τοῖς ἀποστόλοις Ἐὰν μὲν οὖν τις θελήσῃ τοῦ Ἰσραὴλ μετσνοῆσαι διὰ τοῦ ὀνόματός μου πιστεύειν ἐπὶ τὸν θεόν , ἀφεθήσονται αὐτῷ αἱ ἁμαρτίαι · μετὰ δώδεκα ἔτη ἐξέλθετε εἰς τὸν κόσμον , μή τις εἴπῃ Οὐκ ἀκηκόαμεν . But this could not be the case, as we have Peter and John going down, to Samaria, Acts 8:14 .
	 [52] Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194