− 2.A Jew called Aquila. This was no small trial, in that Paul findeth none at Corinthus to lodge him save Aquila, who had been twice exiled. For being born in Pontus, he forsook his country, and sailed over the sea, that he might dwell at Rome. He was compelled to depart thence again by the commandment of Claudius Caesar. Though the commodiousness of the city was such, the plenty so great, the situation so pleasant, and there were also so many Jews there, yet Paul found no more fit host than a man that had been banished out of his own country, and also out of another soil. − (310) If we compare the great fruit which ensued immediately upon his preaching with such a base entrance, the power of the Spirit of God shall [more] plainly appear. Also we may see how the Lord, by his singular counsel, turneth those things to his glory, and the salvation of the godly, which seem contrary to the flesh, and unhappy. − (311) Nothing is more miserable than exile, according to the sense of the flesh. But it was far better for Aquila to be Paul’s companion, than to be in the highest office either at Rome or in his country. Therefore, this happy calamity of Aquila doth teach us, that the Lord doth often better provide for when he doth sharply punish − (312) us, than if he should most gently entreat us, and when he tosseth us to and fro in most extreme exile, − (313) that he may bring us unto the heavenly rest. − All Jews to depart from Rome. The estate of that nation was then very miserable, so that it is a wonder that they did not almost all depart from the worship of God. But this is a greater wonder, that the religion wherein they had been brought up prevailed against Caesar’s tyranny, and that so soon as Christ, the Sun of righteousness, did arise, few were turned unto him. Notwithstanding, I do not doubt but that the Lord suffered them − (314) to pass through many troubles, that they might the more willingly, yea, the more greedily receive the grace of redemption offered them; but the more part − (315) became dull in their misery, − (316) few did submit themselves to be taught when the Lord did punish them, as did Aquila and Priscilla. Yet, if Suetonius say the truth, they were expelled through hatred of the name of Christ, and so calamity might have more provoked and angered a great part, because they were wrongfully accused for that religion which they did detest. − (310) − “ Alieno solo,” a foreign soil. (311) − “ Infausta,” ill-omened, unpropitious. (312) − “ Affligit,” afflict. (313) − “ Per dura exilia,” through the hardships of exile. (314) − “ Consulto...passus fuerit,” purposely suffered. (315) − “ Ut fieri solet,” as is usual, omitted. (316) − “ In suis malis obstupuit,” were stupified by their calamities. 