 1 11. ] THE MIRACULOUS DRAUGHT OF FISHES. CALL OF PETER AND THE SONS OF ZEBEDEE. The question at once meets us, whether this account, in its form here peculiar to Luke, is identical in its subject-matter with Matthew 4:18-22 , and Mark 1:16-20 . With regard to this, we may notice the following particulars. (1) Contrary to Schleiermacher’s inference (Trans. pp. 75, 76), it must be, I think, that of most readers, that a  previous and close relation had subsisted between our Lord and Peter . The latter calls Him  ἐπιστάτα (= ῥαββί ), and  κύριε  : evidently (Luke 5:5 , end)  expects a miracle; and  follows Him, with his partners, without any present express command so to do .
	Still all this might be, and yet the account might be identical with the others. For our Lord had known Peter before this, John 1:41 ff.; and, in all probability, as one of His disciples. And although there is here no express command to follow, yet the words in Luk 5:10 may be, and are probably intended to be, equivalent to one. (2) The Evangelist evidently intends this as the first  apostolic calling of Peter and his companions. The expressions in Luk 5:11 could not otherwise have been used. (3) There is yet the supposition, that the accounts in Matthew and Mark may be a shorter way of recounting this by  persons who were not aware of these circumstances. But then such a supposition will not consist with that high degree of authority in those accounts, which I believe them to have: see note on Mark. (4) It seems to me that the truth of the matter is nearly this: that this event is  distinct from , and  happened at a later period than , the calling in Matt. and Mark; but that the four Apostles, when our Lord was at Capernaum, followed their occupation as fishermen. There is every thing to shew, in our account, that the calling had previously taken place; and the closing of it by the expression in Luk 5:11 merely indicates what there can be no difficulty in seeing even without it, that our present account is an imperfect one, written by one who found thus much recorded, and knowing it to be part of the history of the calling of the Apostles, appended to it the fact of their leaving all and following the Lord. As to the repetition of the assurance in Luke 5:10 , I see no more in it than this, which appears also from other passages in the Gospels, that the Apostles, as such, were not called or ordained  at any special moment , or by  any one word of power alone; but that in their case as well as ours, there was line upon line, precept upon precept: and that what was said generally to all four on the former occasion, by words only, was repeated to Peter on this, not only in words, but by a miracle. Does his fear, as expressed in Luke 5:8 , besides the reason assigned, indicate  some previous slowness , or  relaxation of his usually earnest attachment , of which he now becomes deeply ashamed? (5) It is also to be noticed that there is no chronological index to this narrative connecting it with what precedes or follows. It cannot well (see Luk 5:8 ) have taken place  after the healing of Peter’s wife’s mother; and ( Luk 5:1 ) must have been after the crowd had now become accustomed to hear the Lord teach. (6) Also, that there is no mention of  Andrew here, as in Luk 5:10 there surely would have been, if he had been present. (7) It will be seen how wholly irreconcilable either of the suppositions is with the idea that Luke  used the Gospel of Matt., or that of Mark, in compiling his own.