 1. ] This Herod was Herod ANTIPAS, son of Herod the Great, ἐκ Μαλθάκης τῆς Σαμαρείτιδος , and own brother of Archelaus (Jos. B. J. i. 28. 4). The portion of the kingdom allotted to him by the second will of his father (in the first he was left as king) was the tetrarchy of Galilee and Peræa (Jos. Antt. xvii. 8. 1). He married the daughter of the Arabian king Aretas; but having during a visit to his half-brother Herod Philip (not the tetrarch of that name, but another son of Herod the Great, disinherited by his father) become enamoured of his wife Herodias, he prevailed on her to leave her husband, and live with him. (See below, on Matthew 14:4 .) This step, accompanied as it was with a stipulation of putting away the daughter of Aretas, involved him in a war with his father-in-law, which however did not break out till a year before the death of Tiberius (A.D. 37, U.C. 790; Jos. Antt. xviii. 5. 1 3), and in which he was totally defeated and his army destroyed by Aretas; a divine vengeance, according to the Jews, for the death of John the Baptist (Josephus, ibid.). He and Herodias afterwards went to Rome at the beginning of Caligula’s reign, to complain of the assumption of the title of king by Agrippa his nephew, son of Aristobulus; but Caligula having heard the claims of both, banished Antipas and Herodias to Lyons in Gaul, whence he was afterwards removed to Spain, and there died: Jos. Antt. xviii. 7. 1, 2.
	The following events apparently took place at Machærus, a frontier fortress between Peræa and Arabia: see below on Matthew 14:10 .
	 τὴν ἀκοὴν Ἰησοῦ ] It was the fame of the  preaching and miracles of the twelve , on their mission, of which Herod heard, probably in conjunction with the works of Christ: see [133] Mark.
	 [133] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .