1 Thessalonians 1:3.  Work of faith,  i.e.  that which faith does or effects; its fruit or product. Every living thing, plant or animal, has its specific product or work, its thing to do. That which faith does is to make us ‘walk worthy of God who hath called us unto His kingdom and glory’ (chap. 1 Thessalonians 2:12); as the  faith  Paul refers to was their belief in this call.
	 Labour of love,  i.e.  the fatiguing and devoted toil in the service of others, which was dictated by the love they had for one another, to which Paul again alludes (1 Thessalonians 4:9) in terms of strong admiration and praise. Opportunities of sympathy and service could not be wanting in Thessalonica. Jewish employers would pay off Christian workmen; wives who had shown attachment to the new faith might be divorced. Possibly, however, the  labour  alluded to is that which Paul specifies in chap. 1 Thessalonians 5:12.
	 Patience [endurance] of hope in our Lord Jesus  Christ.  The Thessalonians were distinguished by the vivid expectation they cherished of the second coming of the Lord, and this expectation enabled them to display an unwavering constancy in persecution. Their hope that the Lord would speedily appear raised them above both the desires and fears of this transitory present. The three graces, faith, love, hope, are commonly grouped together by Paul, comp. 1Th 5:8 , 1 Thessalonians 3:10-13; 1 Corinthians 13:13; Colossians 1:4-5. Faith maintains us in our right relation to God; love maintains us in our right relation to men; hope steadies, directs, and elevates our own life. Faith is employed about the past, the historical manifestation of God and His will in Christ; love finds its opportunity in the present; hope is the light of faith turned upon the future.
	 In the sight of our  God and Father. These words may be construed with  ‘ remembering,’ as in chap. 1 Thessalonians 3:9; or they may be intended to express that, in the exercise of the graces mentioned, the Thessalonians regarded God’s presence and judgment, comp. chap. 1 Thessalonians 3:13.
	