14. Sir—Greek, "Lord."
	B, C, Vulgate, Syriac, Coptic versions, and CYPRIAN
	read, "My Lord." A omits "My," as English
	Version.
thou knowest—taken from
	Ezekiel 37:3. Comparatively
	ignorant ourselves of divine things, it is well for us to look upward
	for divinely communicated knowledge. 
	came—rather as Greek,
	"come"; implying that they are just come.
great tribulation—Greek,
	"THE great
	tribulation"; "the tribulation, the great one,"
	namely, the tribulation to which the martyrs were exposed
	under the fifth seal, the same which Christ foretells as about to
	precede His coming (Matthew 24:21,
	great tribulation), and followed by the same signs as the
	sixth seal (Matthew 24:29; Matthew 24:30),
	compare Daniel 12:1; including also
	retrospectively all the tribulation which the saints of all
	ages have had to pass through. Thus this seventh chapter is a
	recapitulation of the vision of the six seals, Daniel 12:1- :, to fill up the outline there given in that part of it
	which affects the faithful of that day. There, however, their number
	was waiting to be completed, but here it is completed, and they are
	seen taken out of the earth before the judgments on the Antichristian
	apostasy; with their Lord, they, and all His faithful witnesses and
	disciples of past ages, wait for His coming and their coming to be
	glorified and reign together with Him. Meanwhile, in contrast with
	their previous sufferings, they are exempt from the hunger, thirst,
	and scorching heats of their life on earth (Daniel 12:1- :), and are fed and refreshed by the Lamb of God Himself
	(Revelation 7:17; Revelation 14:1-4;
	Revelation 14:13); an earnest of their
	future perfect blessedness in both body and soul united (Revelation 21:4-6;
	Revelation 22:1-5). 
	washed . . . robes . . .
	white in the blood of . . . Lamb— (Revelation 1:5;
	Isaiah 1:18; Hebrews 9:14;
	1 John 1:7; compare Isaiah 61:10;
	Zechariah 3:3-5). Faith applies to
	the heart the purifying blood; once for all for justification,
	continually throughout the life for sanctification.