20. a few things—omitted in
	the three oldest manuscripts. Translate then, "I have against
	thee that," c. 
	sufferest—The three
	oldest manuscripts read, "lettest alone." 
	that woman—Two oldest
	manuscripts read, "THY
	wife" two omit it. Vulgate and most ancient versions read
	as English Version. The symbolical Jezebel was to the Church
	of Thyatira what Jezebel, Ahab's "wife," was to him. Some
	self-styled prophetess (or as the feminine in Hebrew is often
	used collectively to express a multitude, a set of false
	prophets), as closely attached to the Church of Thyatira as a
	wife is to a husband, and as powerfully influencing for evil
	that Church as Jezebel did Ahab. As Balaam, in Israel's early
	history, so Jezebel, daughter of Eth-baal, king of Sidon ( :-, formerly priest of Astarte, and murderer of his
	predecessor on the throne, JOSEPHUS
	[Against Apion, 1.18]), was the great seducer to idolatry in
	Israel's later history. Like her father, she was swift to shed blood.
	Wholly given to Baal worship, like Eth-baal, whose name expresses his
	idolatry, she, with her strong will, seduced the weak Ahab and Israel
	beyond the calf-worship (which was a worship of the true God under
	the cherub-ox form, that is, a violation of the second commandment)
	to that of Baal (a violation of the first commandment also). She
	seems to have been herself a priestess and prophetess of Baal.
	Compare 2 Kings 9:22; 2 Kings 9:30,
	"whoredoms of . . . Jezebel and her witchcrafts"
	(impurity was part of the worship of the Phoelignician Astarte, or
	Venus). Her spiritual counterpart at Thyatira lured God's "servants"
	by pretended utterances of inspiration to the same libertinism,
	fornication, and eating of idol-meats, as the Balaamites and
	Nicolaitanes (Revelation 2:6; Revelation 2:14;
	Revelation 2:15). By a false
	spiritualism these seducers led their victims into the grossest
	carnality, as though things done in the flesh were outside the true
	man, and were, therefore, indifferent. "The deeper the Church
	penetrated into heathenism, the more she herself became heathenish;
	this prepares us for the expressions 'harlot' and 'Babylon,' applied
	to her afterwards" [AUBERLEN].
	to teach and to seduce—The
	three oldest manuscripts read, "and she teaches and seduces,"
	or "deceives." "Thyatira was just the reverse of
	Ephesus. There, much zeal for orthodoxy, but little love; here,
	activity of faith and love, but insufficient zeal for godly
	discipline and doctrine, a patience of error even where there was not
	a participation in it" [TRENCH].