24. you . . . and . . . the rest—The
	three oldest manuscripts omit "and"; translate then, "Unto
	you, the rest." 
	as many as have not—not
	only do not hold, but are free from contact with. 
	and which—The oldest
	manuscripts omit "and"; translate, "whosoever." 
	the depths—These false
	prophets boasted peculiarly of their knowledge of mysteries
	and the deep things of God; pretensions subsequently expressed
	by their arrogant title, Gnostics ("full of knowledge").
	The Spirit here declares their so-called "depths," (namely,
	of knowledge of divine things) to be really "depths of
	Satan"; just as in Revelation 2:9,
	He says, instead of "the synagogue of God," "the
	synagogue of Satan." HENGSTENBERG
	thinks the teachers themselves professed to fathom the depths of
	Satan, giving loose rein to fleshly lusts, without being hurt
	thereby. They who thus think to fight Satan with his own weapons
	always find him more than a match for them. The words, "as they
	speak," that is, "as they call them," coming after not
	only "depths," but "depths of Satan," seem to
	favor this latter view; otherwise I should prefer the former, in
	which case, "as they speak," or "call them," must
	refer to "depths" only, not also "depths of Satan."
	The original sin of Adam was a desire to know EVIL
	as well as good, so in HENGSTENBERG'S
	view, those who professed to know "the depths of Satan." It
	is the prerogative of God alone to know evil fully, without being
	hurt or defiled by it. 
	I will put—Two oldest
	manuscripts have "I put," or "cast." One oldest
	manuscript reads as English Version.
none other burden—save
	abstinence from, and protestation against, these abominations; no
	"depths" beyond your reach, such as they teach, no new
	doctrine, but the old faith and rule of practice once for all
	delivered to the saints. Exaggerating and perfecting Paul's doctrine
	of grace without the law as the source of justification and
	sanctification, these false prophets rejected the law as a rule of
	life, as though it were an intolerable "burden." But it is
	a "light" burden. In Acts 15:28;
	Acts 15:29, the very term
	"burden," as here, is used of abstinence from fornication
	and idol-meats; to this the Lord here refers.