11. Wherefore—Greek,
	"With a view to which," namely, His glorification in you as
	His saints. 
	also—We not only
	anticipate the coming glorification of our Lord in His saints, but
	we also pray concerning (so the Greek) YOU.
	our God—whom we serve. 
	count you worthy—The
	prominent position of the "You" in the Greek makes
	it the emphatic word of the sentence. May you be found among
	the saints whom God shall count worthy of their calling ( :-)! There is no dignity in us independent of God's calling of
	us (2 Timothy 1:9). The calling
	here is not merely the first actual call, but the whole of God's
	electing act, originating in His "purpose of grace given us in
	Christ before the world began," and having its consummation in
	glory. 
	the good pleasure of,
	c.—on the part of God [BENGEL].
	faith—on your part.
	ALFORD refers the former
	clause, "good pleasure of his goodness," also to man,
	arguing that the Greek for "goodness" is never
	applied to God, and translates, "All [that is, every possible]
	right purpose of goodness." WAHL,
	"All sweetness of goodness," that is, impart in full
	to you all the refreshing delights of goodness. I think that, as in
	the previous and parallel clause, "calling" refers to GOD'S
	purpose and as the Greek for "good pleasure" mostly
	is used of God, we ought to translate, "fulfil (His)
	every gracious purpose of goodness (on your part),"
	that is, fully perfect in you all goodness according to His
	gracious purpose. Thus, "the grace of our God," 2 Timothy 1:9- :, corresponds to God's "good pleasure" here,
	which confirms the English Version, just as "the grace of
	the Lord Jesus Christ" is parallel to "work of
	faith," as Christ especially is the object of faith. "The
	work of faith"; Greek, (no article; supply from the
	previous clause all) work of faith"; faith
	manifested by work, which is its perfected development (2 Timothy 1:9- :; compare Note, see on 2 Timothy 1:9- :). Working reality of faith.
with power—Greek,
	"in power," that is, "powerfully fulfil in you"
	(Colossians 1:11).