Michael,
	the archangel
	— Nowhere in Scripture is the plural used, “archangels”; but
	only ONE, “archangel.” The only other passage in the New
	Testament where it occurs, is  :-,
	where Christ is distinguished from the archangel, with whose voice He
	shall descend to raise the dead; they therefore err who confound
	Christ with Michael. The name means, Who
	is like God?
	In  :-
	he is called “One (‘the
	first,’
	Margin)
	of the chief princes.” He is the champion angel of Israel. In  :-
	the conflict between Michael and Satan is again alluded to.about
	the body of Moses
	— his literal body. Satan, as having the power of death, opposed
	the raising of it again, on the ground of Moses’ sin at Meribah,
	and his murder of the Egyptian. That Moses’ body was raised,
	appears from his presence with Elijah and Jesus (who were in the
	body) at the Transfiguration: the sample and earnest of the coming
	resurrection kingdom, to be ushered in by Michael’s standing up for
	God’s people. Thus in each dispensation a sample and pledge of the
	future resurrection was given: Enoch in the patriarchal dispensation,
	Moses in the Levitical, Elijah in the prophetical. It is noteworthy
	that the same rebuke is recorded here as was used by the Angel of the
	Lord, or Jehovah the Second Person, in pleading for Joshua, the
	representative of the Jewish Church, against Satan, in  :-;
	whence some have thought that also here “the body of Moses” means
	the Jewish Church accused by Satan, before God, for its filthiness,
	on which ground he demands that divine justice should take its course
	against Israel, but is rebuked by the Lord who has “chosen
	Jerusalem”: thus, as “the body of Christ” is the
	Christian Church,
	so “the body of Moses” is the Jewish Church. But the literal body
	is evidently here meant (though, secondarily, the Jewish Church is
	typified by Moses’ body, as it was there represented by Joshua the
	high priest); and Michael, whose connection seems to be so close with
	Jehovah-Messiah on the one hand, and with Israel on the other,
	naturally uses the same language as his Lord. As Satan (adversary
	in court) or the devil (accuser)
	accuses alike the Church collectively and “the brethren”
	individually, so Christ pleads for us as our Advocate. Israel’s,
	and all believers’ full justification, and the accuser’s being
	rebuked finally, is yet future. Josephus [Antiquities,4.8],
	states that God hid Moses’ body, lest, if it had been exposed to
	view, it would have been made an idol of. Jude, in this account,
	either adopts it from the apocryphal “assumption of Moses” (as
	Origen [Concerning
	Principalities,
	3.2] thinks), or else from the ancient tradition on which that work
	was founded. Jude,
	as inspired, could distinguish how much of the tradition was true,
	how much false. We
	have no such means of distinguishing, and therefore can be sure of no
	tradition, save that which is in the written
	word.durst
	not
	— from reverence for Satan’s former dignity
	( :-).railing
	accusation
	— Greek,
	“judgment of blasphemy,” or evil-speaking.
	Peter said, Angels do not, in order to avenge themselves, rail at
	dignities, though ungodly, when they have to contend with them: Jude
	says that the archangel Michael himself did not rail even at the time
	when he fought with the devil, the prince of evil spirits - not from
	fear of him, but from reverence of God, whose delegated power in this
	world Satan once had, and even in some degree still has. From the
	word “disputed,” or debated
	in controversy,
	it is plain it was a judicial contest.