4.For if he that cometh. He now reproves the Corinthians for the excessive readiness, which they showed to receive the false apostles. For while they were towards Paul himself excessively morose and irritable, (808) so that on any, even the least occasion, they were offended if he gave them even the slightest reproof, there was, on the other hand, nothing that they did not bear with, on the part of the false Apostles. They willingly endured their pride, haughtiness, and unreasonableness. An absurd reverence of this nature he condemns, because in the mean time they showed no discrimination or judgment. “How is it that they take (809) so much liberty with you, and you submit patiently to their control? Had they brought you another Christ, or another gospel, or another Spirit, different from what you received through my hands, I would assuredly approve of your regard for them, for they would be deserving of such honor. But as they have conferred upon you nothing, that I had not given you previously, what sort of gratitude do you show in all but adoring those, to whom you are indebted for nothing, while you despise me, through whom God has bestowed upon you so many and so distinguished benefits?” Such is the reverence that is shown even at this day by Papists towards their pretended Bishops. For while they are oppressed by their excessively harsh tyranny, (810) they submit to it without difficulty; but, at the same time, do not hesitate to treat Christ himself with contempt. (811) The expressions — another Christ, and another gospel, are made use of here in a different sense from what they bear in Galatians 1:8. For another is used there in opposition to what is true and genuine, and hence it means false and counterfeit. Here, on the other hand, he means to say — “If the gospel had come to you through their ministry, and not through mine.” (808) “Trop chagrins, difficiles, mal-aises a contenter, et faciles a estre irritez;” — “Excessively fretful, hard to please, not easily satisfied, and very readily provoked.” (809) “Entreprenent et vsurpent;” — “Assume and usurp.” (810) “Leur dure et insupportable tyrannie;” — “Their harsh and intolerable tyranny.” (811) “Mais de Christ, il ne leur en chaut, et ne font point de conscience de l’auoir en mespris;” — “But as for Christ, they do not care for him, and they make no scruple to hold him in contempt.” 