Verse Acts 1:25. That he may take part of this ministry, c.] Instead of τον κληρον, the lot, which we translate part, τον τοπον, the place, is the reading of ABC*, Coptic, Vulgate, and the Itala in the Codex Bezae, and from them the verse may be read thus, That he may take the place of this ministry and apostleship, (from which Judas fell) and go to his own place but instead of ιδιον, own, the Codex Alexandrinus, and one of Matthai's MSS., read δικαιον, just-that he might go to his just or proper place.This verse has been variously expounded:1. Some suppose that the words, that he might go to his own place, are spoken of Judas, and his punishment in hell, which they say must be the own place of such a person as Judas.2. Others refer them to the purchase of the field, made by the thirty pieces of silver for which he had sold our Lord. So he abandoned the ministry and apostolate, that he might go to his own place, viz. that which he had purchased.3. Others, with more seeming propriety, state that his own place means his own house, or former occupation; he left this ministry and apostleship that he might resume his former employment in conjunction with his family, c. This is primarily the meaning of it in Numbers 24:25: And Balaam returned to HIS OWN PLACE, i.e. to his own country, friends, and employment.4. Others think it simply means the state of the dead in general, independently of either rewards or punishments as is probably meant by Ecclesiastes 3:20: All go unto ONE PLACE: all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.But, 5. Some of the best critics assert that the words (as before hinted) belong to Matthias-his own place being the office to which he was about to be elected. Should any object, this could not be called his own place, because he was not yet appointed to it, but hell might be properly called Judas's own place, because, by treason and covetousness, he was fully prepared for that place of torment, it may be answered, that the own or proper place of a man is that for which he is eligible from being qualified for it, though he may not yet possess such a place: so St. Paul, Every man shall receive HIS OWN reward, τονιδιονμισθον, called there his own, not from his having it already in possession, for that was not to take place until the resurrection of the just; but from his being qualified in this life for the state of glory in the other. See the observations at the end of the chapter. Acts 1:26.