 28 30. ] We may admire the  simple truthfulness of this answer of our Lord. He does not hide from them their reward: but tells them prophetically, that in the new world, the accomplishment of that regeneration which He came to bring in (see Acts 3:21 ; Revelation 21:5 ; Mat 26:29 ), when He should sit ( καθίσῃ in the  active ) on His throne of glory ( ἐπ . θρόν  ου τ . δ . αὐ ., the gen. expressing the simple fact of His session on His throne), then they also should sit ( καθίσεσθε in the  middle ) on twelve thrones ( ἐπ . δώ . θρόν  ους , the accus. expressing motion towards, as prescribed for them by another: “shall be promoted to, and take your seats upon …”) judging (see ref. 1 Cor.) the twelve tribes of Israel (see Revelation 20:4 ; Revelation 21:12 ; Revelation 21:14 : one throne, Judas’s, another took, Act 1:20 ). At the same time he informs them, Matthew 19:29 , that this reward should  not in its most blessed particulars be  theirs alone , but that of  every one who should deny himself for Him (see 2Ti 4:8 ): and ( Mat 19:30 ) cautions them, referring perhaps especially to Judas, but with a view to all, as appears by the following parable, that  many first should be last , and  last first .
	On Matthew 19:29 , Stier remarks that the family relations are mentioned by St. Matthew in the order in which  they would be left . On the other points requiring notice, see note on Mark 10:29-30 .
	Meyer’s rendering of Matthew 19:30 , joining πρῶτοι with ἔσονται , and thus making ἔσχατοι the subject and πρῶτοι the predicate of the first clause and vice versâ in the second, is not so good as the ordinary one: for whereas the πρῶτοι in the first clause, if it belonged to πολλοί , would naturally lose its article, ἔσχατοι , if it belonged to πολλοί , being divided from it by the predicate πρῶτοι , would take its article as the subject; πολλοὶ δὲ ἔσονται πρῶτοι οἱ ἔσχατοι : and the same of πρῶτοι in the second clause: καὶ ἔσχατοι οἱ πρῶτοι , ch. Matthew 20:16 , by which Meyer defends his rendering, does not necessitate it, containing the same propositions stated in different order.