10. For—justifying and
	explaining the word "rest," or "Sabbatism," just
	used (see on Hebrews 4:9). 
	he that is entered—whosoever
	once enters. 
	his rest—God's
	rest: the rest prepared by God for His people [ESTIUS].
	Rather, "His rest": the man's rest: that
	assigned to him by God as his. The Greek is the same as
	that for "his own" immediately after. 
	hath ceased—The Greek
	aorist is used of indefinite time, "is wont to cease,"
	or rather, "rest": rests. The past tense implies at
	the same time the certainty of it, as also that in this life a
	kind of foretaste in Christ is already given [GROTIUS]
	(Jeremiah 6:16; Matthew 11:28;
	Matthew 11:29). Our highest happiness
	shall, according to this verse, consist in our being united in one
	with God, and moulded into conformity with Him as our archetype
	[CALVIN]. 
	from his own works—even
	from those that were good and suitable to the time of doing work.
	Labor was followed by rest even in Paradise (Genesis 2:3;
	Genesis 2:15). The work and subsequent
	rest of God are the archetype to which we should be conformed. The
	argument is: He who once enters rest, rests from labors; but God's
	people have not yet rested from them, therefore they have not yet
	entered the rest, and so it must be still future. ALFORD
	translates, "He that entered into his (or else God's, but rather
	'his'; Isaiah 11:10, 'His rest':
	'the joy of the Lord,' Matthew 25:21;
	Matthew 25:23) rest (namely, Jesus,
	our Forerunner, Hebrews 4:14; Hebrews 6:20,
	'The Son of God that is passed through the heavens': in
	contrast to Joshua the type, who did not bring God's people
	into the heavenly rest), he himself (emphatical)
	rested from his works (Hebrews 4:4),
	as God (did) from His own" (so the Greek,
	"works"). The argument, though generally applying to anyone
	who has entered his rest, probably alludes to Jesus in
	particular, the antitypical Joshua, who, having entered His rest at
	the Ascension, has ceased or rested from His work of the new
	creation, as God on the seventh day rested from the work of physical
	creation. Not that He has ceased to carry on the work of redemption,
	nay, He upholds it by His mediation; but He has ceased from those
	portions of the work which constitute the foundation; the sacrifice
	has been once for all accomplished. Compare as to God's creation
	rest, once for all completed, and rested from, but now still upheld
	(see on Hebrews 4:4).