This chapter Ephesians 4:0 is the commencement of the “practical” part of the Epistle, and is made up, like the remaining chapters, of various exhortations. It is in accordance with the usual habit of Paul to conduct an “argument” in his epistles, and then to enforce various practical duties, either growing out of the argument which he had maintained, or, more commonly, adapted to some particular state of things in the church to which he wrote. The points of exhortation in this chapter are, in general, the following:I. An exhortation to unity; Ephesians 4:1-6. He entreats them to walk worthy of their vocation Ephesians 4:1; shows them how it could be done, or what he meant; and that, in order to that, they should show meekness and kindness Ephesians 4:3, and particularly exhorts them to unity Ephesians 4:3; for they had one God, one Saviour, one baptism, one religion; Ephesians 4:4-6.II. He shows them that God had made ample provision for his people, that they might be sound in the faith, and in unity of life and of doctrine, and need not be driven about with every wind of opinion; Ephesians 4:7-16. He assures them that to every Christian is given grace in the Redeemer adapted to his circumstances Ephesians 4:7; that the Lord Jesus ascended to heaven to obtain gifts for his people Ephesians 4:8-10; that he had given apostles prophets and evangelists, for the very purpose of imparting instruction, and confirming them in the faith of the gospel Ephesians 4:11-12; that this was in order that they might attain to the highest elevation in Christian knowledge and piety Ephesians 4:13; and particularly that they might not be driven to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine; Ephesians 4:14-16.III. Having these arrangements made for their knowledge and piety, he exhorts them not to live as the pagan around them lived; But to show that they were under a better influence; Ephesians 4:17-24. Their understanding was darkened, and they were alienated from the life of God, or true religion Ephesians 4:18; they were past feeling, and were given over to every form of sensuality; Ephesians 4:19. The Ephesians, however, had been taught a different thing Ephesians 4:20-21, and the apostle exhorts them to lay aside everything pertaining to their former course of life, and to become wholly conformed to the principles of the new man; Ephesians 4:22-24.IV. He exhorts them to perform particular Christian duties, and to put away certain evils, of which they and all others were in danger; Ephesians 4:25-32. In particular, he entreats them to avoid lying Ephesians 4:25; anger Ephesians 4:26; theft Ephesians 4:28; corrupt and corrupting conversation Ephesians 4:29; grieving the Holy, Spirit Ephesians 4:30; bitterness, evil-speaking, and malice Ephesians 4:3 l; and entreats them to manifest in their conversation with each other a spirit of kindness and forgiveness; Ephesians 4:32.