There are two principal subjects discussed in this chapter: I. The method by which we may determine that we have the Spirit of God, 1 John 4:1-6. The apostle had said 1 John 3:24 that it could be determined that God dwells in them by the Spirit which he has given them; but as it is probable that the teachers of error, the persons whom John regarded as “antichrist,”1 John 2:18-19; 1 John 2:18-19, would lay claim to the same thing, it was important to know how it could be ascertained that the Spirit of God had been really given to them, or how it could be determined that the spirit that was in them was not the spirit of antichrist, the very thing against which he would guard them. In doing this: (1) He cautions them against trusting to every kind of spirit, or supposing that every spirit which animated even the professed friends of religion was the Spirit of God, 1 John 4:1. (2) Also, he shows them how it might be determined that they had really the Spirit of God, or what would be the effect of the influences of the Spirit on the mind. This evidence consisted of the following things: (a) They had the Spirit of God who confessed that Jesus Christ had come in the flesh, 1 John 4:2; (b) They who denied that, had not the Spirit of God and the denial of this was the real spirit of antichrist, 1 John 4:3; (d) They who had the Spirit of God would hear those who were his apostles, or who were sent by him, 1 John 4:6. II. The duty, power, and influence of love, 1 John 4:7-21. This is a favorite subject with John, and he here considers it at length, as a subject that was essential in determining the evidences of piety. The duty and value of love are enforced by the following considerations: (1) Love has its origin in God, and everyone who has true love is born of God, 1 John 4:7-8. (2) God has shown his great love to us by having given His Son to die for us; and as He has so loved us, we ought also to love one another, 1 John 4:9-11. (3) If we love one another, it furnishes the best evidence that God dwells in us, 1 John 4:12-15. (4) God is love, and if we have true love we dwell in Him, and He dwells in us, 1 John 4:16, (5) Love will furnish us great advantage in the day of judgment, by giving us confidence when we come before Him, 1 John 4:17. (6) Love will cast out all fear, and will make our minds calm in view of the events which are to come, 1 John 4:18, (7) The very fact that He has first manifested His love to us should lead us to the exercise of love, 1 John 4:19, (8) A man cannot truly love God and yet hate his brother, 1 John 4:20; and, (9) It is the solemn command of God that he who loves God should love his brother also.  