4. The color scarlet, it is
	remarkable, is that reserved for popes and cardinals. Paul II made it
	penal for anyone but cardinals to wear hats of scarlet; compare Roman
	Ceremonial [3.5.5]. This book was compiled several centuries ago
	by MARCELLUS, a Romish
	archbishop, and dedicated to Leo X. In it are enumerated five
	different articles of dress of scarlet color. A vest is
	mentioned studded with pearls. The Pope's miter is of gold
	and precious stones. These are the very characteristics
	outwardly which Revelation thrice assigns to the harlot or Babylon.
	So Joachim an abbot from Calabria, about A.D.
	1200, when asked by Richard of England, who had summoned him to
	Palestine, concerning Antichrist, replied that "he was born long
	ago at Rome, and is now exalting himself above all that is called
	God." ROGER HOVEDEN
	[Annals, 1.2], and elsewhere, wrote, "The harlot arrayed
	in gold is the Church of Rome." Whenever and wherever (not in
	Rome alone) the Church, instead of being "clothed (as at first,
	Revelation 12:1) with the sun" of
	heaven, is arrayed in earthly meretricious gauds, compromising the
	truth of God through fear, or flattery, of the world's power,
	science, or wealth, she becomes the harlot seated on the beast, and
	doomed in righteous retribution to be judged by the beast (Revelation 12:1- :). Soon, like Rome, and like the Jews of Christ's and the
	apostles' time leagued with the heathen Rome, she will then become
	the persecutor of the saints (Revelation 12:1- :). Instead of drinking her Lord's "cup" of
	suffering, she has "a cup full of abominations and
	filthinesses." Rome, in her medals, represents herself holding a
	cup with the self-condemning inscription, "Sedet super
	universum." Meanwhile the world power gives up its hostility
	and accepts Christianity externally; the beast gives up its
	God-opposed character, the woman gives up her divine one. They meet
	halfway by mutual concessions; Christianity becomes worldly, the
	world becomes Christianized. The gainer is the world; the loser is
	the Church. The beast for a time receives a deadly wound (Revelation 12:1- :), but is not really transfigured; he will return worse than
	ever (Revelation 17:11-14).
	The Lord alone by His coming can make the kingdoms of this world
	become the kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ. The "purple"
	is the badge of empire; even as in mockery it was put on our Lord. 
	decked—literally,
	"gilded." 
	stones—Greek,
	"stone." 
	filthiness—A, B, and
	ANDREAS read, "the
	filthy (impure) things."