16. upon the beast—But A, B,
	Vulgate, and Syriac read, "and the beast."
	shall make her
	desolate—having first dismounted her from her seat on the beast
	(Revelation 17:3). 
	naked—stripped of all
	her gaud (Revelation 17:4). As
	Jerusalem used the world power to crucify her Saviour, and then was
	destroyed by that very power, Rome; so the Church, having apostatized
	to the world, shall have judgment executed on her first by the world
	power, the beast and his allies; and these afterwards shall have
	judgment executed on them by Christ Himself in person. So Israel
	leaning on Egypt, a broken reed, is pierced by it; and then Egypt
	itself is punished. So Israel's whoredom with Assyria and Babylon was
	punished by the Assyrian and Babylonian captivities. So the Church
	when it goes a-whoring after the word as if it were the
	reality, instead of witnessing against its apostasy from God, is
	false to its profession. Being no longer a reality itself, but a
	sham, the Church is rightly judged by that world which for a time had
	used the Church to further its own ends, while all the while "hating"
	Christ's unworldly religion, but which now no longer wants the
	Church's aid. 
	eat her flesh—Greek
	plural, "masses of flesh," that is, "carnal
	possessions"; implying the fulness of carnality into which the
	Church is sunk. The judgment on the harlot is again and again
	described (Revelation 18:1; Revelation 19:5);
	first by an "angel having great power" (Revelation 19:5- :), then by "another voice from heaven" (Revelation 19:5- :), then by "a mighty angel" (Revelation 19:5- :). Compare Revelation 19:5- :, originally said of Israel, but further applicable to
	the New Testament Church when fallen into spiritual fornication. On
	the phrase, "eat . . . flesh" for prey upon one's property,
	and injure the character and person, compare Psalms 14:4;
	Psalms 27:2; Jeremiah 10:25;
	Micah 3:3. The First Napoleon's
	Edict published at Rome in 1809, confiscating the papal dominions and
	joining them to France, and later the severance of large portions of
	the Pope's territory from his sway and the union of them to the
	dominions of the king of Italy, virtually through Louis Napoleon, are
	a first instalment of the full realization of this prophecy of the
	whore's destruction. "Her flesh" seems to point to her
	temporal dignities and resources, as distinguished from "herself"
	(Greek). How striking a retribution, that having obtained her
	first temporal dominions, the exarchate of Ravenna, the kingdom of
	the LOMBARDs, and the
	state of Rome, by recognizing the usurper Pepin as lawful king
	of France, she should be stripped of her dominions by another usurper
	of France, the Napoleonic dynasty! 
	burn . . . with fire—the
	legal punishment of an abominable fornication.