11. beast that . . . is not—his
	beastly character being kept down by outward Christianization of the
	state until he starts up to life again as "the eighth"
	king, his "wound being healed" ( :-), Antichrist manifested in fullest and most intense
	opposition to God. The "he" is emphatic in the Greek.
	He, peculiarly and pre-eminently: answering to "the little
	horn" with eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking
	great things, before whom three of the ten horns were plucked up
	by the roots, and to whom the whole ten "give their power
	and strength" (Revelation 17:12;
	Revelation 17:13; Revelation 17:17).
	That a personal Antichrist will stand at the head of the
	Antichristian kingdom, is likely from the analogy of Antiochus
	Epiphanes, the Old Testament Antichrist, "the little horn"
	in Daniel 8:9-12; also, "the
	man of sin, son of perdition" (Daniel 8:9-27.8.12- :), answers here to "goeth into perdition," and is
	applied to an individual, namely, Judas, in the only other passage
	where the phrase occurs (Daniel 8:9-27.8.12- :). He is essentially a child of destruction, and hence he
	has but a little time ascended out of the bottomless pit, when he
	"goes into perdition" (Revelation 17:8;
	Revelation 17:11). "While the
	Church passes through death of the flesh to glory of the Spirit, the
	beast passes through the glory of the flesh to death"
	[AUBERLEN]. 
	is of the seven—rather
	"springs out of the seven." The eighth is not merely
	one of the seven restored, but a new power or person proceeding out
	of the seven, and at the same time embodying all the God-opposed
	features of the previous seven concentrated and consummated; for
	which reason there are said to be not eight, but only seven
	heads, for the eighth is the embodiment of all the seven. In the
	birth-pangs which prepare the "regeneration" there are
	wars, earthquakes, and disturbances [AUBERLEN],
	wherein Antichrist takes his rise ("sea," Revelation 13:1;
	Mark 13:8; Luke 21:9-11).
	He does not fall like the other seven (Luke 21:9-42.21.11- :), but is destroyed, going to his own perdition,
	by the Lord in person.