3. the wilderness—Contrast her
	in Revelation 12:6; Revelation 12:14,
	having a place in the wilderness-world, but not a home; a
	sojourner here, looking for the city to come. Now, on the contrary,
	she is contented to have her portion in this moral wilderness. 
	upon a scarlet . . .
	beast—The same as in Revelation 13:1,
	who there is described as here, "having seven heads and ten
	horns (therein betraying that he is representative of the dragon, Revelation 13:1- :), and upon his heads names (so the oldest manuscripts read)
	of blasphemy"; compare also Revelation 13:1- :, below, with Revelation 19:19;
	Revelation 19:20; Revelation 17:13;
	Revelation 17:14; Revelation 17:16.
	Rome, resting on the world power and ruling it by the claim of
	supremacy, is the chief, though not the exclusive, representative of
	this symbol. As the dragon is fiery-red, so the beast is
	blood-red in color; implying its blood-guiltiness, and also
	deep-dyed sin. The scarlet is also the symbol of kingly
	authority. 
	full—all over; not
	merely "on his heads," as in Revelation 17:16- :, for its opposition to God is now about to develop itself in
	all its intensity. Under the harlot's superintendence, the world
	power puts forth blasphemous pretensions worse than in pagan days. So
	the Pope is placed by the cardinals in God's temple on the altar
	to sit there, and the cardinals kiss the feet of the Pope.
	This ceremony is called in Romish writers "the adoration."
	[Historie de Clerge, Amsterd., 1716; and LETTENBURGH'S
	Notitia Curiæ Romanæ, 1683, p. 125; HEIDEGGER,
	Myst. Bab., 1, 511, 514, 537]; a papal coin [Numismata
	Pontificum, Paris, 1679, p. 5] has the blasphemous legend,
	"Quem creant, adorant." Kneeling and kissing
	are the worship meant by John's word nine times used in respect to
	the rival of God (Greek, "proskunein").
	Abomination, too, is the scriptural term for an idol, or any
	creature worshipped with the homage due to the Creator. Still, there
	is some check on the God-opposed world power while ridden by the
	harlot; the consummated Antichrist will be when, having destroyed
	her, the beast shall be revealed as the concentration and incarnation
	of all the self-deifying God-opposed principles which have appeared
	in various forms and degrees heretofore. "The Church has gained
	outward recognition by leaning on the world power which in its turn
	uses the Church for its own objects; such is the picture here of
	Christendom ripe for judgment" [AUBERLEN].
	The seven heads in the view of many are the seven successive forms of
	government of Rome: kings, consuls, dictators, decemvirs, military
	tribunes, emperors, the German emperors [WORDSWORTH],
	of whom Napoleon is the successor (Revelation 17:16- :). But see the view given, see on Revelation 17:16- :, which I prefer. The crowns formerly on the ten horns
	(Revelation 13:1) have now disappeared,
	perhaps an indication that the ten kingdoms into which the
	Germanic-Slavonic world [the old Roman empire, including the
	East as well as the West, the two legs of the image with five toes on
	each, that is, ten in all] is to be divided, will lose their
	monarchical form in the end [AUBERLEN];
	but see Revelation 17:12, which seems
	to imply crowned kings.