And I baptized also the household - The family. Whether there were any infants in the family, does not appear. It is certain that the family was among the first converts to Christianity in Achaia, and that it had evinced great zeal in aiding those who were Christians; see 1 Corinthians 16:15 - From the manner in which Paul mentions this, it is probable that Stephanas did not reside at Corinth when he was baptized, though he might have subsequently removed there. “I baptized none ‘of you’ 1 Corinthians 1:14. - that is, none of those who permanently dwelt at Corinth, or who were members of the original church there, but Crispus and Gaius - but I baptized also the family of Stephanas, ‘now’ of your number” - Or it may mean, “I baptized none of you ‘who are adult members of the church,’ but Crispus and Gains, though I also baptized the ‘family’ of Stephanas. If this be the true interpretation, then it forms an argument to prove that Paul practiced household baptism, or the baptism of the families of those who were themselves believers. Or the expression may simply indicate a recollection of the true circumstances of the case - a species of correction of the statement in 1 Corinthians 1:14, “I recollect now also that I baptized the family of Stephanas.”Household - οἶκον oikon. The house; the family. The word comprises the whole family, including adults, domestics, slaves, and children. It includes:Bretschneider. It was the custom, doubtless, for the apostles to baptize the entire “household,” whatever might be the age, including domestics, slaves, and children. The head of a family gave up the entire “household” to God.(That adult domestics and slaves were baptized without personal profession or other evidence of faith, is incredible. The word οἶκον oikon indeed includes domestics as well as children, out while the latter must have been admitted on the profession of their parents, it is reasonable to suppose that the former would be received solely on their own.)Of Stephanas - Who Stephanas was, is not known. The Greek commentators say that he was the jailor of Philippi, who, after he had been baptized Acts 16:33, removed with his family to Corinth. But of this there is no certain evidence.Besides - Besides these.I know not ... - I do not know whether I baptized any others who are now members of that church. Paul would, doubtless, recollect that he had baptized others in other places, but he is speaking here particularly of Corinth. This is not to be urged as an argument against the inspiration of Paul, for:  