24. his own self—there being
	none other but Himself who could have done it. His
	voluntary undertaking of the work of redemption is implied.
	The Greek puts in antithetical juxtaposition, OUR,
	and His OWN SELF, to mark
	the idea of His substitution for us. His "well-doing"
	in His sufferings is set forth here as an example to servants and to
	us all (1 Peter 2:20). 
	bare—to sacrifice:
	carried and offered up: a sacrificial term. Isaiah 53:11;
	Isaiah 53:12, "He bare
	the sin of many": where the idea of bearing on Himself is
	the prominent one; here the offering in sacrifice is combined
	with that idea. So the same Greek means in Isaiah 53:12- :. 
	our sins—In offering
	or presenting in sacrifice (as the Greek for "bare"
	implies) His body, Christ offered in it the guilt of our sins
	upon the cross, as upon the altar of God, that it might be expiated
	in Him, and so taken away from us. Compare Isaiah 53:12- :, "Thou shalt make His soul an offering for sin."
	Peter thus means by "bare" what the Syriac takes two
	words to express, to bear and to offer: (1) He hath
	borne our sins laid upon Him [namely, their guilt, curse, and
	punishment]; (2) He hath so borne them that He offered them
	along with Himself on the altar. He refers to the animals upon which
	sins were first laid, and which were then offered thus laden
	[VITRINGA]. Sin or guilt
	among the Semitic nations is considered as a burden lying heavily
	upon the sinner [GESENIUS].
	on the tree—the cross,
	the proper place for One on whom the curse was laid: this
	curse stuck to Him until it was legally (through His death as the
	guilt-bearer) destroyed in His body: thus the handwriting of the bond
	against us is cancelled by His death. 
	that we being dead to
	sins—the effect of His death to "sin" in the
	aggregate, and to all particular "sins," namely, that we
	should be as entirely delivered from them, as a slave that is
	dead is delivered from service to his master. This is
	our spiritful standing through faith by virtue of Christ's
	death: our actual mortification of particular sins is in
	proportion to the degree of our effectually being made conformable to
	His death. "That we should die to the sins whose
	collected guilt Christ carried away in His death, and so LIVE
	TO THE RIGHTEOUSNESS (compare Isaiah 53:12- :. 'My righteous servant shall justify many'),
	the gracious relation to God which He has brought in" [STEIGER].
	by whose stripes—Greek,
	"stripe." 
	ye were healed—a
	paradox, yet true. "Ye servants (compare 'buffeted,' 'the tree,'
	1 Peter 2:20; 1 Peter 2:24)
	often bear the strife; but it is not more than your Lord
	Himself bore; learn from Him patience in wrongful sufferings.