 33. ] In explaining this difficult verse, two things must be borne in mind: (1) that  ἐμβριμάομαι can bear but one meaning, that of  indignor (“infremuit,” Vulg.), the expression of  indignation and  rebuke, not of sorrow . This has been here acknowledged by all the expositors who have paid any attention to the usage of the word. (2) That both from  ὠς εἶδεν  , &c., from  καὶ ἐτάραξ  .   ἑαυτ  ., and John 11:35 , the feeling in the Lord was clearly one of  rising sympathy , which vented itself at last in tears.
	These two things being premised, I think the meaning to be, that Jesus, with the tears of sympathy already rising and overcoming His speech,  checked them, so as to be able to speak the words following . I would read ἐνεβρ . τ . πν ., καὶ ἐτ . ἑαυ ., καὶ εἶπεν in immediate connexion, as expressing the temporary check given to the flow of His tears,  the effort need to utter the following question . And I would thus divest the self-restraint of all stoical and unworthy character, and consider it as  merely physical , requiring indeed an act of the will, and a self-troubling, a complication of feeling, but implying no deliberate disapproval of the rising emotion, which indeed immediately after is suffered to prevail. What minister has not, when burying the dead in the midst of a weeping family, felt the emotion and made the effort here described? And surely this was one of the things in which He was made like unto His brethren. Thus Bengel: “Ita Jesus austeriore affectu lacrymas hic cohibuit, et mox Joh 11:38 abrupit. Eoque major earum fuit auctoritas.”
	Meyer’s explanation deserves mention: that our Lord was indignant at seeing the Jews, His bitter enemies, mingling their hypocritical tears (  Crocodilsthranen ) with the true ones of the bereaved sister. But, not to say how unworthy this seems of the Person and occasion, the explanation will find no place in John 11:38 : for surely the question of the Jews in Joh 11:37 is not enough to justify it. Still perhaps any contribution to the solution of this difficult word is not to be summarily rejected.
	 τῷ πν  . is not the dat. after  ἐνεβρ  ., ‘  rebuked His spirit ,’ but  in Spirit: see ἐν ἑαυτῷ John 11:38 .
	Indignation over unbelief and sin, and death the fruit of sin, doubtless lay in the background; but to see it  in the words (with Olsh., Stier, and Trench), seems unnatural.
	 ἐτάραξεν ἑαυτόν is understood by Meyer, and perhaps rightly, as describing an outward motion of the body,  He shuddered: and so Euthym [159] : διέσεισε (not, as Bloomf. somewhat confidently asserts, a blunder of the scribes for διεσείσθη , but the (so-called) intrans. sense of σείω , in which it was used of this very act of ‘shaking’ bodily: of. Xen. Cyneg. iii. 4, αἱ δὲ τὰ ὦτα μὲν ἀκίνητα ἔχουσιν , ἄκρᾳ τῇ οὐρᾷ σιέουσιν : ib. vi. 15, ταχὺ ταῖς οὐραῖς διασείουσαι : cf. also the impersonal usage, Thuc. iv. 52, τοῦ αὐτοῦ μηνὸς ἱσταμένου , ἔσεισε )· συμβαίνει γὰρ τινάσσεσθαι τὰ ἀνώτερα μέρη τῶν οὕτως ἐμβριμωμένων · Cyril’s comment is, ἐπειδὴ οὐ μόνον θεὸς κατὰ φύσιν ἀλλὰ καὶ ἄνθρωπος ἦν ὁ χριστός , πάσχει καὶ νῦν τὸ ἀνθρώπινον · ἀρχομένης δέ πως ἐν αὐτῷ κινεῖσθαι τῆς λύπης , καὶ νευούσης ἤδη πρὸς τὸ δάκρυον τῆς ἁγίας σαρκός , οὐκ ἐφίησιν αὐτὴν τοῦτο παθεῖν ἐκλύτως , καθἁπερ ἔθος ἡμῖν , ἐμβριμᾶται δὲ τῷ πνεύματι , τουτέστι τῇ δυνάμει τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος ἐπιπλήττει τρόπον τινὰ τῇ ἰδία σαρκί ʼ ἡ δέ , τὸ τῆς ἑνωθείσης αὐτῇ θεότητος οὐκ ἐνεγκοῦσα κίνημα , τρέμει τε καὶ θορύβου πλάττεται σχῆμα καὶ συγχέεται . πένθος γὰρ οἶδεν ἀναῤῥιπίζειν . τοῦτο γὰρ οἶμαι σημαίνειν τὸ  ἑτάραξεν ἑαυτόν  .
	 [159] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116