 25, 26. ] These words, as Stier observes, are the  central point of the history; the  great testimony to Himself , of which the subsequent miracle is  the proof . The  intention of the saying seems to have been, to awaken in Martha the faith that He could raise her brother from the dead, in its highest and proper form. This He does by announcing  Himself (  ἐγώ  , I, and no other …) as ‘THE RESURRECTION’ (q. d. that resurrection in the last day shall be only  by my Power , and therefore I can raise now as well), and more than that, THE LIFE ITSELF: so that  he that believeth in me (= Lazarus,  in her mind ),  even though he have died ( ἀποθάνῃ , past)  shall live; and he that liveth (physically, ‘is not yet dead’)  and believeth in me, shall never die: i.e. ‘faith in Me is the source of  life , both here and hereafter;  and those who have it, have Life, so that they shall NEVER DIE;’  physical death being overlooked and disregarded, in comparison with that which is really and only  death . Compare 4Ma 7:19 . The  ζῶν  must be (against Lampe, Olshausen, and Stier) taken of  physical life , for it stands opposed to  κἂν ἀποθάνῃ  .
	 ὁ πιστ  .   εἰς ἐμέ is the subject of both clauses; in the former it is said that he κἂν ἀποθ ., ζήσεται : in the second, that he ζῶν , οὐ μὴ ἀποθάνῃ . Olshausen’s remark, that ζῶν and ἀποθ . in the second clause must  both be physical,  if one is , is wrong; the antithesis consisting, in both clauses, in the reciprocation of the two senses, physical and spiritual; and serving in the latter clause, as a key hereafter to the condition of Lazarus,  when raised from the dead.
	There can hardly be any reference in Joh 11:26 to the  state of the living faithful at the Lord’s coming ( πάντες οὐ κοιμηθησόμεθα , πάντες δὲ ἀλλαγησόμεθα , 1Co 15:51 ), for although the Apostle there, speaking of believers primarily and especially, uses the first person, the saying would be equally true of unbelievers, on whose bodies the change from to τὸ φθαρτόν to ἀφθαρσία will equally pass, and of whom the οὐ ἀποθάνῃ here would be equally true, whereas the saying is one setting forth an exclusive privilege of ὁ ζῶν κ . πιστεύων εἰς ἐμέ . Besides, such an interpretation would set aside all reference to Lazarus, or to present circumstances.