 49 52. ] The counsel is given in subtilty, and was intended by Caiaphas in the sense of political expediency only. But it pleased God to make him, as High Priest, the special though involuntary organ of the Holy Spirit, and’ thus to utter by him a prophecy of the death of Christ and its effects. That this is the only sense to be given, appears from the consideration that the  whole of Joh 11:51-52 cannot for a moment be supposed to have been in the mind of Caiaphas; and to divide it and suppose the latter part to be the addition of the Evangelist, is quite unjustifiable.
	 ἀρχ  .   τ  .   ἐνιαυτοῦ ἐκείνου repeated again, ch. John 18:13 .
	He was High Priest during the whole Procuratorship of Pontius Pilate, eleven years: Jos. Antt. xviii: 2. 2, and 4.3.
	In  τοῦ ἐν  .   ἐκ  . there is no intimation conveyed that the High Priesthood was changed every year, which it  was not: but we must understand the words as directing, attention to ‘  that (  remarkable )  year ,’ without any reference to time past or to come. THAT YEAR  of great events had Caiaphas as its High Priest. See on John 11:57 .
	 οὐκ οἴδ οὐδ  . ] Probably various methods of action had been suggested.
	Observe  λαός here, the usual term for the chosen people (reff.), and then ἔθνος , when it is regarded as a nation among the nations: cf. also John 11:52 . Meyer otherwise: hut Scripture usage is as above.
	 ἀφ  ʼ   ἑαυτ  .   οὐκ εἶπ  . ]  not  merely  of himself, but under the influence of the Spirit, who caused him to utter words, of the full meaning of which he had no conception.
	 ἀρχ  .   ὢν ἐπροφ  . ] There certainly was a belief, arising probably originally from the use of the Urim and Thummim, that the High Priest, and Indeed every priest, had some knowledge of dreams and utterance of prophecy. We find it in Jos. B. J. iii. 8. 3, and Philo de Creat. Principum, 8, vol. ii. p. 367. The latter says ὁ πρὸς ἀλήθειαν ἱερεὺς εὐθύς ἐστι προφήτης . That this belief existed, may account for the expression here; which however does not confirm it in all cases, but asserts the fact that the Spirit  in this case made use of him, as High Priest, for this purpose. This confirms the above view of  τοῦ ἐνιαυτοῦ ἐκείνου  , here again repeated. See on John 11:49 .
	 ὅτι ἤμελ  .… , the purport (unknown to himself) of his prophecy. And τοῦ ἔθν . is guarded from misunderstanding by what follows.
	 τὰ τέκ  .   τ  .   θεοῦ  … are the τασσόμενοι εἰς ζωὴν αἰώνιον , the τέκνα θ of ch. John 1:12 , among all nations: see ch. John 10:16 .