10. Now—rather, "But."
	Therefore Timothy was not the bearer of the Epistle; for it
	would not then be said, "IF Timothy come." He must
	therefore have been sent by Paul from Ephesus before
	this Epistle was written, to accord with  :-; and yet the passage here implies that Paul did not
	expect him to arrive at Corinth till after the letter was
	received. He tells them how to treat him "if" he should
	arrive. Acts 19:21; Acts 19:22
	clears up the difficulty: Timothy, when sent from Ephesus, where this
	Epistle was written, did not proceed direct to Corinth, but went
	first to Macedonia; thus though sent before the letter, he might
	not reach Corinth till after it was received in that city. The
	undesigned coincidence between the Epistle and the history, and the
	clearing up of the meaning of the former (which does not mention the
	journey to Macedonia at all) by the latter, is a sure mark of
	genuineness [PALEY, Horæ
	Paulinæ]. It is not certain that Timothy actually reached
	Corinth; for in Acts 19:22 only
	Macedonia is mentioned; but it does not follow that though
	Macedonia was the immediate object of his mission, Corinth was not
	the ultimate object. The "IF
	Timothy come," implies uncertainty. Acts 19:22- : represents him with Paul in Macedonia; and Acts 19:22- :, speaking of Titus and others sent to Corinth, does
	not mention Timothy, which it would have probably done, had one so
	closely connected with the apostle as Timothy was, stayed as his
	delegate at Corinth. The mission of Titus then took place, when it
	became uncertain whether Timothy could go forward from Macedonia to
	Corinth, Paul being anxious for immediate tidings of the state
	of the Corinthian Church. ALFORD
	argues that if so, Paul's adversaries would have charged him with
	fickleness in this case also (Acts 19:22- :), as in the case of his own change of purpose. But Titus was
	sent directly to Corinth, so as to arrive there before Timothy
	could by the route through Macedonia. Titus' presence would thus make
	amends for the disappointment as to the intended visit of Timothy and
	would disarm adversaries of a charge in this respect (2 Corinthians 7:6;
	2 Corinthians 7:7). 
	without fear—Referring
	perhaps to a nervous timidity in Timothy's character (1 Timothy 3:15;
	1 Timothy 5:22; 1 Timothy 5:24).
	His youth would add to this feeling, as well as his country,
	Lystra, likely to be despised in refined Corinth.