19. Asia—not all Asia Minor,
	but Lydian Asia only, of which Ephesus was the capital. 
	much—with especial
	affection. 
	Aquila . . .
	Priscilla—(Compare Acts 18:2;
	Romans 16:3; Romans 16:4).
	Originally driven out of Italy by Claudius, they had come to Corinth
	(whence their salutation of the Corinthians is appropriate here), and
	then had removed with Paul from Corinth to Ephesus (Acts 18:2;
	Acts 18:18; Acts 18:19;
	Acts 18:26); here, as at Rome
	subsequently, they set up a Church (or assembly of believers) at
	their house (Romans 16:3; Romans 16:5).
	A pattern to Christian husbands and wives. Their Christian
	self-devoting love appears wherever they were (Romans 16:3;
	Romans 16:4). Even the gifted
	Apollos, so highly admired at Corinth, owed much of his knowledge to
	them (Acts 18:24-26).
	In 1 Corinthians 16:20, "All the
	brethren" (that is, the whole Church) seem to be distinguished
	from "the church that is in their house," which was but a
	partial and private assembly out of the general Church at Corinth.
	NEANDER thinks 1 Corinthians 16:20- : refers to "the whole Church" meeting at
	the house of Gaius (compare 1 Corinthians 16:20- :). "Synagogue" implies an assembly in general,
	without reference to the character or motives of its members.
	"Church," like the Hebrew Kahal, implies an assembly
	legally convened; as, for instance, the Jews met as a body
	politic to receive the law (hence Stephen calls it "the Church
	in the wilderness," Acts 7:38),
	and having a legal bond of union. Christ's followers when dispersed
	from one another cease to be a congregation (synagogue), but
	still are a Church, having the common bond of union to the
	same Head by the same faith and hope [VITRINGA,
	Synagogue and Temple]. From this we may explain Paul's
	entering "into every house and haling men and women":
	he would in searching for Christians go to their several "houses"'
	of prayer. 
	in the Lord—They pray
	for all blessings on you from the Lord, the source of every
	good [GROTIUS]. ALFORD
	explains, "in a Christian manner," as mindful of your
	common Lord. "In the Lord" seems to me to refer to their
	union together in Christ, their prayers for one another's good
	being in virtue of that union.