Through a glass [δι εσοπτρου] . Rev., in a mirror. Through [δια] is by means of. Others, however, explain it as referring to the illusion by which the mirrored image appears to be on the other side of the surface : others, again, think that the reference is to a window made of horn or other translucent material. This is quite untenable. Esoptron mirror occurs only here and James 1:23. The synonymous word katoptron does not appear in the New Testament, but its kindred verb katoptrizomai to look at one's self in a mirror, is found, 2 Corinthians 3:18. The thought of imperfect seeing is emphasized by the character of the ancient mirror, which was of polished metal, and required constant polishing, so that a sponge with pounded pumice - stone was generally attached to it. Corinth was famous for the manufacture of these. Pliny mentions stone mirrors of agate, and Nero is said to have used an emerald. The mirrors were usually so small as to be carried in the hand, though there are allusions to larger ones which reflected the entire person. The figure of the mirror, illustrating the partial vision of divine things, is frequent in the rabbinical writings, applied, for instance, to Moses and the prophets. Plato says : "There is no light in the earthly copies of justice or temperance or any of the higher qualities which are precious to souls : they are seen through a glass, dimly" (" Phaedrus, "250). Compare" Republic, " 7, 516. Darkly [εν αινιγματι] . Lit., in a riddle or enigma, the word expressing the obscure form in which the revelation appears. Compare dij aijnigmatwn in dark speeches, Numbers 12:8. Face to face. Compare mouth to mouth, Numbers 12:8. Shall I know [επιγνωσομαι] . American Rev., rightly, "I shall fully know." See on knowledge, Romans 3:20. The A. V. has brought this out in 2 Corinthians 6:9, well known. I am known [επεγνωσθην] . The tense is the aorist, "was known," in my imperfect condition. Paul places himself at the future stand - point, when the perfect has come. The compound verb is the same as the preceding. Hence American Rev., "I was fully known."