Tongues. Mentioned first because of the exaggerated importance which the Corinthians attached to this gift. Angels. Referring to the ecstatic utterances of those who spoke with tongues. Charity [αγαπην] . Rev., love. The word does not occur in the classics, though the kindred verbs ajgapaw and ajgapazw to love, are common. It first appears in the Septuagint, where, however, in all but two of the passages, it refers to the love of the sexes. Eleven of the passages are in Canticles. See, also, 2 Samuel 13:15, Sept. The change in the Rev. from charity to love, is a good and thoroughly defensible one. Charity follows the caritas of the Vulgate, and is not used consistently in the A. V. On the contrary, in the gospels, ajgaph is always rendered love, and mostly elsewhere, except in this epistle, where the word occurs but twice. Charity, in modern usage, has acquired the senses of tolerance and beneficence, which express only single phases of love. There is no more reason for saying "charity envieth not," than for saying "God is charity;" " the charity of Christ constraineth us; "" the charity of God is shed abroad in our hearts." The real objection to the change on the part of unscholarly partisans of the A. V. is the breaking of the familiar rhythm of the verses. Sounding brass [χαλκος ηχων] . The metal is not properly brass, the alloy of copper and zinc, but copper, or bronze, the alloy of copper and tin, of which the Homeric weapons were made. Being the metal in common use, it came to be employed as a term for metal in general. Afterward it was distinguished; common copper being called black or red copper, and the celebrated Corinthian bronze being known as mixed copper. The word here does not mean a brazen instrument, but a piece of unwrought metal, which emitted a sound on being struck. In the streets of Seville one may see pedlers striking, together two pieces of brass instead of blowing a horn or ringing a bell. Tinkling cymbal [κυμβαλον αλαλαζον] . The verb rendered tinkling, alalazo, originally meant to repeat the cry alala, as in battle. It is used by Mark (vi. 38) of the wailings of hired mourners. Hence, generally, to ring or clang. Rev., clanging. Kumbalon cymbal, is derived from kumbov a hollow or a cup. The cymbal consisted of two half - globes of metal, which were struck together. In middle - age Latin, cymbalum was the term for a church or convent - bell. Ducange defines : "a bell by which the monks are called to meals, and which is hung in the cloister." The comparison is between the unmeaning clash of metal, and music; between ecstatic utterances which are jargon, and utterances inspired by love, which, though unintelligible to the hearers, may carry a meaning to the speaker himself and to God, 1 Corinthians 14:4, 1 Corinthians 14:7.