2. Translate, "That their
	hearts may be comforted." The "their," compared
	with "you" (Colossians 2:4),
	proves that in Colossians 2:1 the
	words, "have not seen my face in the flesh," is a general
	designation of those for whom Paul declares he has "conflict,"
	including the particular species, "you (Colossians) and them at
	Laodicea." For it is plain, the prayer "that their
	hearts may be comforted," must include in it the Colossians for
	whom he expressly says, "I have conflict." Thus it is an
	abbreviated mode of expression for, "That your and their
	hearts may be comforted." ALFORD
	translates, "confirmed," or allows "comforted" in
	its original radical sense strengthened. But the Greek
	supports English Version: the sense, too, is clear: comforted
	with the consolation of those whom Paul had not seen, and for whom,
	in consequence, he strove in prayerful conflict the more fervently;
	inasmuch as we are more anxious in behalf of absent, than present,
	friends [DAVENANT]. Their
	hearts would be comforted by "knowing what conflict he had for"
	them, and how much he is interested for their welfare; and also by
	being released from doubts on learning from the apostle, that the
	doctrine which they had heard from Epaphras was true and certain. In
	writing to churches which he had instructed face to face, he enters
	into particular details concerning them, as a father directing his
	children. But to those among whom he had not been in person, he
	treats of the more general truths of salvation. 
	being—Translate as
	Greek in oldest manuscripts, "They being knit together."
	in love—the bond and
	element of perfect knitting together; the antidote to the
	dividing schismatical effect of false doctrine. Love to God and to
	one another in Christ. 
	unto—the object and end
	of their being "knit together." 
	all riches—Greek,
	"all the riches of the full assurance (1 Thessalonians 1:5;
	Hebrews 6:11; Hebrews 10:22)
	of the (Christian) understanding." The accumulation of
	phrases, not only "understanding," but "the full
	assurance of understanding"; not only this, but "the riches
	of," c., not only this, but "all the riches of,"
	&c., implies how he desires to impress them with the momentous
	importance of the subject in hand. 
	to—Translate "unto."
	acknowledgment—The
	Greek implies, "full and accurate knowledge." It is
	a distinct Greek word from "knowledge," Hebrews 10:22- :. ALFORD
	translates, "thorough . . . knowledge." Acknowledgment
	hardly is strong enough they did in a measure acknowledge the
	truth; what they wanted was the full and accurate knowledge of
	it (compare Notes, see on Hebrews 10:22- :; Hebrews 10:22- :). 
	of God, and of the Father and
	of Christ—The oldest manuscripts omit "and of the Father,
	and of"; then translate, "Of God (namely), Christ."
	Two very old manuscripts and Vulgate read, "Of God the
	Father of Christ."