14. Blotting out—Greek,
	"Having wiped out"; coincident in time with "having
	forgiven you" (Colossians 2:13);
	hereby having cancelled the law's indictment against you. The
	law (including especially the moral law, wherein lay the chief
	difficulty in obeying) is abrogated to the believer, as far as it was
	a compulsory, accusing code, and as far as "righteousness"
	(justification) and "life" were sought for by it. It can
	only produce outward works, not inward obedience of the will, which
	in the believer flows from the Holy Spirit in Him (Romans 3:21;
	Romans 7:2; Romans 7:4;
	Galatians 2:19). 
	the handwriting of
	ordinances—rather, "IN
	ordinances" (see on Galatians 2:19- :);
	"the law of commandments contained in ordinances." "The
	handwriting" (alluding to the Decalogue, the representative of
	the law, written by the hand of God) is the whole law,
	the obligatory bond, under which all lay; the Jews primarily were
	under the bond, but they in this respect were the representative
	people of the world (Romans 3:19);
	and in their inability to keep the law was involved the inability of
	the Gentiles also, in whose hearts "the work of the law was
	written" (Romans 2:15); and as
	they did not keep this, they were condemned by it. 
	that was against us . . .
	contrary to us—Greek "adversary to us";
	so it is translated, Hebrews 10:27.
	"Not only was the law against us by its demands, but also
	an adversary to us by its accusations" [BENGEL].
	TITTMANN explains the
	Greek, "having a latent contrariety to us";
	not open designed hostility, but virtual unintentional
	opposition through our frailty; not through any opposition in the
	law itself to our good (Romans 7:7-12;
	Romans 7:14; 1 Corinthians 15:56;
	Galatians 3:21; Hebrews 10:3).
	The "WRITING" is
	part of "that which was contrary to us"; for "the
	letter killeth" (see on Hebrews 10:3- :). 
	and took it—Greek,
	and hath taken it out of the way" (so as to be no longer a
	hindrance to us), by "nailing it to the cross."
	Christ, by bearing the curse of the broken law, has redeemed us from
	its curse (Galatians 3:13). In His
	person nailed to the cross, the law itself was nailed to it. One
	ancient mode of cancelling bonds was by striking a nail through the
	writing: this seems at that time to have existed in Asia [GROTIUS].
	The bond cancelled in the present case was the obligation lying
	against the Jews as representatives of the world, and attested by
	their amen, to keep the whole law under penalty of the curse
	(Deuteronomy 27:26; Nehemiah 10:29).