15. ALFORD,
	ELLICOTT, and others
	translate the Greek to accord with the translation of the same
	Greek, Colossians 3:9,
	"Stripping off from Himself the principalities and the powers: "
	GOD put off from Himself
	the angels, that is, their ministry, not employing them to be
	promulgators of the Gospel in the way that He had given the law by
	their "disposition" or ministry (Acts 7:53;
	Galatians 3:19; Hebrews 2:2;
	Hebrews 2:5): God manifested Himself
	without a veil in Jesus. "THE
	principalities and THE
	powers" refers back to Hebrews 2:5- :, Jesus, "the Head of all principality and power,"
	and Colossians 1:16. In the sacrifice
	of Jesus on the cross, God subjected all the principalities, c., to
	Jesus, declaring them to be powerless as to His work and His people
	(Ephesians 1:21). Thus Paul's
	argument against those grafting on Christianity Jewish observances,
	along with angel-worship, is, whatever part angels may be supposed to
	have had under the law, now at an end, God having put the legal
	dispensation itself away. But the objection is, that the context
	seems to refer to a triumph over bad angels: in Ephesians 1:21- :, however, Christ's triumph over those subjected to
	Him, is not a triumph for destruction, but for their salvation, so
	that good angels may be referred to (Ephesians 1:21- :). But the Greek middle is susceptible of English
	Version, "having spoiled," or, literally [TITTMANN],
	"having completely stripped," or "despoiled"
	for Himself (compare Romans 8:38
1 Corinthians 15:24; Ephesians 6:2).
	English Version accords with Matthew 12:29;
	Luke 11:22; Hebrews 2:14.
	Translate as the Greek, "The rules and authorities."
	made a show of them—at
	His ascension (see on Hebrews 2:14- :;
	confirming English Version of this verse). 
	openly—John 7:4;
	John 11:54, support English
	Version against ALFORD'S
	translation, "in openness of speech." 
	in it—namely, His
	cross, or crucifixion: so the Greek fathers translate. Many of the
	Latins, "In Himself" or "in Him." John 11:54- : favors English Version, "reconcile . . . by the
	cross, having slain the enmity thereby." If "in Him,"
	that is, Christ, be read, still the Cross will be the place and means
	of God's triumph in Christ over the principalities (Ephesians 1:20;
	Ephesians 2:5). Demons, like other
	angels, were in heaven up to Christ's ascension, and influenced earth
	from their heavenly abodes. As heaven was not yet opened to man
	before Christ (John 3:13), so it
	was not yet shut against demons (Job 1:6;
	Job 2:1). But at the ascension
	Satan and his demons were "judged" and "cast out"
	by Christ's obedience unto death (John 12:31;
	John 16:11; Hebrews 2:14;
	Revelation 12:5-10), and the Son
	of man was raised to the throne of God; thus His resurrection and
	ascension are a public solemn triumph over the principalities and
	powers of death. It is striking that the heathen oracles were
	silenced soon after Christ's ascension.