 17 .]  ἀπῆλθον both times refers to his departure from Damascus: q.d. ‘when I left Damascus, I did not go … but when I left Damascus, I went.’ The repetition of ἀπῆλθον is quite in the Apostle’s manner; Meyer adduces as examples Romans 8:15 (Hebrews 12:18 ; Hebrews 12:22 . We may add Heb 2:16 ).
	 εἰς Ἀραβ  . ] On the place which this journey holds in the narrative of Acts 9:0 , see notes on Galatians 1:19 ; Gal 1:22 there. Its object does not seem to have been (as Chrys., al., Meyer, al.) the preaching of the gospel, nor are the words ἵνα εὐαγγελ . κ . τ . λ . necessarily to be connected with it, but preparation for the apostolic work; though of course we cannot say, that he did not preach during the time, as before and after it (Acts 9:20 ; Act 9:22 ) in the synagogues at Damascus. Into  what part of Arabia he went, we have no means of determining. The name was a very vague one, sometimes including Damascus (‘Damascus Arabiæ retro deputabatur, antequam transcripta erat in Syrophœnicem ex distinctione Syriarum.’ Tert. adv. Marcion., iii. 13, vol. ii. p. 339: so also (verbatim) adv. Judæos 9, p. 619. ὅτι δὲ Δάμασκος τῆς Ἀραβικῆς γῆς ἦ κ . ἔστιν , εἰ καὶ νῦν προσνενέμηται τῇ Συροφοινίκῃ λεγομένῃ , οὐδ ̓ ὑμῶν τινες ἀρνήσασθαι δὐνανται , Justin Mart. c. Trypho, 78, p. 176), sometimes extending even to Lebanon and the borders of Cilicia (Pliny, Hist. Nat. vi. 32). It was however more usually restricted to that peninsula now thus called, between the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. Here we must apparently take it in the wider sense, and understand that part of the Arabian desert which nearly bordered on Damascus. (From C. and H. edn. 2, i. p. 117, f.)  How long he remained there we are equally at a loss to say. Hardly for any considerable portion of the three years: Act 9:23 will scarcely admit of this: for those ἡμέραι ἱκαναί were manifestly passed at Damascus. The journey is mentioned here, to account for the time, and to shew that he did not spend it in conferring with  men , or with the other Apostles.
	 καὶ πάλ  .   ὑπέστρ  . ] cf. Acts 9:22 ; Acts 9:25 .