 7 .] Meyer’s note appears to me well to express the sense: “the preceding εἰς ἕτερον εὐαγγέλιον was a paradoxical expression, there being in reality  but one Gospel . Paul appeared by it to admit the existence of  many Gospels , and he therefore now explains himself more accurately, how he wishes to be understood ὃ οὐκ ἔστιν ἄλλο , εἰ μή &c.,” i.e.  which “different Gospel,” whereto you are falling away,  is not another , not a second, besides the one Gospel ( ἄλλο , not ἕτερον again; see above),  except that there are some who trouble yon &c. That is: ‘This ἕτερον εὐαγγ . is  only in so far another , that there are certain, who &c.’ Notice that the stress is on  οὐκ ; so that Paul, though he had before said εἰς ἕτερον εὐαγγ ., yet  guards the unity of the Gospel, and explains what he meant by ἕτερον εὐαγγέλιον to be  nothing but a corruption and perversion of the one Gospel of Christ . Others, as Chrys., Œc., Thdrt., Luther, De Wette, &c., take ὃ οὐκ ἔστιν ἄλλο as all referring to εὐαγγέλιον , “  which is (admits of being)  no other ” (= μὴ ὄντος ἄλλου ): and then εἰ μή is merely adversative, ‘  but ,’ or ‘  only ,’ a meaning which it will hardly bear, but which, as De W. remarks, is not necessarily involved in his interpretation: ‘except that’ answering for it quite as well. The objection to his view is (1) that the meaning assigned to ὃ οὐκ ἔστιν ἄλλο is very harsh, taking the relative from its application to the concrete ( ἕτερον εὐαγγ .), and enlarging it to the abstract ( τὸ εὺαγγ . in general) (2) that the juxtaposition of ἕτερον and ἄλλο in one sentence seems to require, as in 1 Corinthians 15:40-41 , that the strict meaning of each should he observed. Others again (Winer, Olsh., &c.) refer the ὅ to the whole sentence from ὅτι &c. to εὐαγγέλιον ‘  which (viz. your falling away)  is nothing else but (has no other cause, but that)  &c. ’ To this the objection (2) above applies, and it is besides very unlikely that St. Paul would thus have shifted all blame from the Galatians to their false teachers (‘hanc culpam non tam vobis imputo quam perturbatoribus illis,’ &c. Luther), and, as it were, wiped out the effect of his rebuke just after uttering it. Lastly, Schött., and Cornel.-a-Lapide, take ὃ οὐκ ἔστ . ἄλλο as a parenthesis, and refer εἰ μή to θαυμάζω , which should thus have been ἐθαύμαζον ( ἄν ). This would besides make the sentence a very harsh and unnatural one. The nature of this ‘different Gospel,’ as gathered from the data in our Epistle, was (1), though recognizing Jesus as the Christ, it insisted on circumcision and the observance of the Mosaic ordinances as to times, &c.: (2) it professed to rest on the authority of some of the other Apostles see Chrys. quoted below.
	 οἱ ταρ  . ] The article points out in a more marked manner the (notorious) occupation of these men, q. d. ‘  certain your disturbers , &c.’ Add to reff., Herodot. ix. 70, τὴν σκηνὴν τ . Μαρδονίου οὗτοι ἔσαν οἱ διαρπάσαντες . Xen. An. ii. 4. 5, ὁ ἡγησόμενος οὐδεὶς ἔσται : and compare the common expression εἰσὶν οἱ λέγοντες .
	 τὸ εὐαγγ  .   τ  .   χρ  . ] perhaps here not ‘  Christ’s Gospel ,’ but the Gospel of (i.e. relating to, preaching) Christ. The context only can determine in such expressions whether the genitive is subjective or objective.