 8 .]  But (no matter who they are οἱ ταρ . &c.)  even though (in καὶ εἰ , καὶ ἐάν , &c., the force of the καί is distributed over the whole supposition following, see Hartung, Partikell. i. 139; and ἐάν is distinguished from εἰ , in supposing a case which has never occurred, see 1 Corinthians 13:1 , and a full explanation in Herm. on Viger, p. 832)  we (i.e. usually, ‘  I, Paul :’ but perhaps  used here on account of οἱ σὺν ἐμοὶ πάντες ἀδελφοί , Gal 1:2 )  or an angel from heaven ( ἄγγ . ἐξ οὐρ . to be taken together, not ἐξ οὐρ . εὐαγγ .: introduced here as the highest possible authority, next to a divine Person: even were this possible, were the highest rank of created beings to furnish the preacher, &c. See 1 Corinthians 13:1 . Perhaps also, as Chrys., there is a reference to the new teachers having sheltered themselves under the names of the great Apostles: μὴ γάρ μοι Ἰάκωβον εἴπῃς , φησί , καὶ Ἰωάννην · κἂν γὰρ τῶν πρώτων ἀγγέλων ᾖ τις τῶν ἐξ οὐρανοῦ διαφθειρόντων τὸ κήρυγμα κ . τ . λ . Then he adds: ταῦτα δὲ οὐχ ὡς καταγινώσκων τ . ἀποστόλων φησίν , οὐδὲ ὡς παραβαινόντων τὸ κήρυγμα , ἄπαγε · εἴτε γὰρ ἡμεῖς , εἴτε ἐκεῖνοι , φησίν , οὕτω κηρύσσομεν · ἀλλὰ δεῖξα . βουλόμενος ὅτι ἀξίωμα προσώπων οὐ προσίεται , ὅταν περὶ ἀληθείας ὁ λόγος ᾖ ), preach (evangelize: it is impossible to preserve in English the εὐαγγέλιον , and in it the reference back to Gal 1:6-7 )  to you other than what ( παρά (reff.) as in παρὰ δόξαν , παρὰ τοὺς ὅρκους , παραβαίνειν , &c. not merely ‘  against ,’ nor merely ‘  besides ,’ but indicating ‘  beyond ,’ in the sense of overstepping the limit into a new region, i.e. it points out  specific difference . The preposition is important here, as it has been pressed by Protestants in the sense of ‘  besides ,’ against Roman Catholic tradition, and in consequence maintained by the latter in the sense of ‘  against .’ It in fact includes both)  we preached (evangelized)  to you, let him be accursed (  of God : no reference to ecclesiastical excommunication: for an  angel is here included. See note, Romans 9:3 , and compare ch. Galatians 5:10 ; also Ellic.’s and Bagge’s notes here).