 6 .]  θαυμάζω in this sense (see reff.) is a word of mildness, inasmuch as it imports that better things were expected of them, and of condescension, as letting down the writer to the level of his readers and even challenging explanation from them. Still, like many other such mild words, it carries to the guilty conscience even sharper rebuke than a harsher one would.
	 οὕτως ταχέως ] either (1) ‘  so soon after your conversion ’ (Calv., Olsh., Meyer, &c.), or (2) ‘  so quickly ,’ ‘  after so little persuasion ,’  when the false teachers once came among you (Chr., De W., &c.), or (3) ‘  so soon after my recent visit among you ’ (Bengel, &c.). Of these I prefer (1), as more suiting the dignity of the passage, and as the more general and comprehensive reason. But it does not exclude (2) and (3): ‘so soon,’ might be, and might be intended to be, variously supplied. See Prolegomena, on the time and place of writing this Epistle.
	 μετατίθ  . ]  are passing over , pres.: not as E. V. ‘  are removed ,’ which is doubly wrong, for μετ . is not passive but  middle , in the common usage of the word, according to which the Galatians would understand it. So Plato, Theog. 122 C, σμικρὸν γάρ τι μετατίθεμαι , ‘I am beginning somewhat to change my opinion:’ see also Gorg. 493 c: Demosth. 379. 10: Ἴβηρες , ὅσοι … ἐς Ῥωμαίους μετέθεντο , Appian, Hisp. c. 17; &c. See also examples in Wetst. Chrys. says well, οὐκ εἶπε Μετέθεσθε , ἀλλὰ Μετατίθεσθε · τουτέστιν , οὐδέπω πιστεύω , οὐδὲ ἡγοῦμαι ἀπηρτισμένην εἶναι τὴν ἀπάτην · δ καὶ αὐτὸ πάλιν ἐστὶν ἀνακτωμένου .
	It is interesting to notice, in connexion with οὕτως ταχέως μετατίθεσθε , the character given by Cæsar of the Gauls: “ut ad bella suscipienda Gallorum alacer ac promtus est animus: sic mollis ac minime resistens ad calamitates mens ipsorum est.” B. G. iii. 19: “Cæsar … infirmitatem Gallorum veritus, quod sint in consiliis capiendis mobiles, et novis plerumque rebus student:” ib. iv. 5: see also ib. ii. 8; iii. 10.
	 τοῦ καλέσ  .   ὑμ  . ] not to be  taken with χριστοῦ , as Syr., Jer., Luth. (gives both constructions, but prefers this), Calv., Grot., Bengel, &c., nor understood of Paul, as al. and recently by Bagge, but, as almost always with the Apostle (see note on Rom 1:6 ), of GOD the Father see Galatians 1:15 ; and cf. Romans 8:30 ; Romans 9:24-25 ; 1 Corinthians 1:9 ; 1Co 7:15 ; 1 Corinthians 7:17 ; 1 Thessalonians 2:12 ; 2Th 2:14 ; 2 Timothy 1:9 . Also 1Pe 5:10 ).
	 ἐν χάρ  .   χρ  . ] in (as the  element , and hence the  medium ; not into, as E. V.; see for construction 1 Corinthians 7:15 . In the secondary transferred sense of local prepositions, so often found in later Greek, it is extremely difficult to assign the precise shade of meaning: see Jowett’s and Ellic.’s notes here. But we may safely lay down two strongly marked regions of prepositional force, which must never be confounded, that of  motion , and that of  rest . ἐν , for example, can never be strictly rendered ‘  into ,’ nor εἰς , ‘  in .’ Where such appears to be the case, some logical consideration has been overlooked, which if introduced would right the meaning)  the grace of Christ . Christ’s grace is the elementary medium of our ‘calling of God,’ as is set forth in full, Romans 5:15 , ἡ δωρεὰ ( τοῦ θεοῦ ) ἐν χάριτι τῇ τοῦ ἑνὸς ἀνθρ . Ἰησ . χρ .: see also Acts 15:11 . And ‘Christ’s grace’ is the sum of all that He has suffered and done for us to bring us to God;  whereby we come to the Father,  in which, as its element, the Father’s calling of us has place.
	 εἰς ἕτερ  .   εὐαγγ  . ]  to a different (  in kind : not ἄλλο ,  another of the same kind , which title he denies it, see below)  gospel (so called by its preachers; or said by way of at once instituting a comparison unfavourable to the new teachers, by the very etymology of εὐαγγέλιον ).