 1 .] It is better not to join  ἀπόστολος (here of course used in its strict and highest sense: see Ellicott, and an interesting note in Jowett) with  ἀπ  ʼ , but to let it stand by itself, and take the two prepositions as indicating,  ἀπό the remote originating cause,  διὰ the nearer instrumental one. In St. Paul’s case, neither of these was merely human; the Lord Jesus was both the original Sender, and Himself the Announcer of the mission. Perhaps however the prepositions must not be so strictly pressed, see ref. 1 Cor., and observe that the following διὰ belongs to θεοῦ πατρός as well as to Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . ἀνθρώπου is perhaps (as Mey., De W., Ellic., al.) singular, for the sake of contrast to Ἰησ . χρ . following; but more probably for solemnity’s sake, the singular making even a more marked exclusion of human agency than the plural. Luther’s view of the sentence is: “The Judaizing teachers could shew their credentials as disciples of Apostles or messengers of churches, and despised Paul as having none such. To this he answers that he had not indeed any commission from men, but derived his authority from a higher source.” But (1) this was not the fact, for he had a regular mission from the church at Antioch: (2) the words do not express it.
	 κ  .   θεοῦ πατρός ] If by Jesus Christ then also by God the Father, in and by whose appointment all the mediatorial acts of Christ in the Headship of His Church are done. The inferences of Chrys. al. as to the equality of the Father and the Son from this juxtaposition, appear far-fetched, and according to “the mind, not of the apostolic, but of the Nicene age,” as Jowett: but we may say at least this, that the strongest possible contrast is here drawn between  man , in the ordinary sense, on the one side,  and Jesus Christ, and God the Father , on the other. Had not the Apostle regarded Jesus Christ as one with the Father in the Godhead, he never could have written thus. On the use of διὰ here where ἀπό might be expected, see Ellicott’s note. He refers it to the brevity with which St. Paul expresses himself: I should rather say that he states our Lord Jesus and God the Father to have been the  causa medians , in bringing down divine agency even to the actual  fact of his mission and leaving it therefore to be inferred à fortiori that the  causa principalis was the will of God.
	It is important to remember that the mission of Paul to the actual work of the ministry was by the command of the  Holy Spirit , Acts 13:2 , proceeding from, and expressing the will of, the Father and the Son.
	πατρός is better taken generally, as in reff.,  the Father , than supplied with ἡμῶν (as De W. al.) or αὐτοῦ (as Meyer al.).
	 τοῦ ἐγ  .   αὐτ  . ] Why specified here? Not, I think, because (Meyer) Paul was called to be an Apostle  by the risen Saviour , nor merely (De W.) to identify the Father as the Originator of the Son’s work of Redemption (which is so in Romans 4:24 , but here would not immediately concern Paul’s calling to be an Apostle), nor (Calvin, al.) to meet the objection that he had never seen Christ, and turn it into an advantage, in that (Aug. (but cf. his Retractations), Erasm., Beza, al.) he alone was commissioned by the already risen and ascended Jesus, for in this case we should not find τοῦ ἐγείραντος κ . τ . λ . stated as a predicate of the Father, but τοῦ ἐγερθέντος κ . τ . λ . as one of the Son, nor as asserting the Resurrection against the Jews and Judaizing Galatians (Chrys., Luther), which is far-fetched, nor again (Jowett) as expressing an attribute of the Father, without which He can hardly be thought of by the believer, for this is too loose a relevancy for a sentence so pointed as the present: but because the Resurrection, including and implying the Ascension, was the Father’s bestowal on Christ of gifts for men, by virtue of which ( ἔδωκεν τοὺς μὲν ἀποστόλους , κ . τ . λ . Eph 4:11 ) Paul’s  Apostleship had been received . Cf. a similar sentiment in Romans 1:4-5 .
	 ἐκ νεκρῶν = ἐκ τῶν ν ., see note on Romans 4:24 . In Matthew 14:2 ; Matthew 27:64 ; Matthew 28:7 ; Ephesians 5:14 ; Colossians 1:18 ( Gal 2:12 ?); 1 Thessalonians 1:10 , the article is expressed: otherwise it is always omitted.