 4 .] He thus  obiter reminds the Galatians, who wished to return to the bondage of the law, of the great object of the Atonement, which they had forgotten. Ch. Gal 3:13 is but a restatement, in more precise terms, of this.
	 δόντος ἑαυ  . ] viz. as an offering, unto death: an expression only found (in N. T.) here and in the Pastoral Epistles. Several such will occur; see the inference, in Prolegomena to Past. Epistles, § i. 32, note.
	 περί , in this connexion, has much the same sense as ὑπέρ : see reff., and note on Ephesians 6:19 ; also Ellic.’s note here.
	 ὅπ  .   ἐξέληται ] ἐξαιρεῖσθαι is the very word used by the Lord of St. Paul’s own great deliverance, see reff.
	 τ  .   αἰῶνος τ  .   ἐνεστ  .   πονηροῦ ]  the present (not, as Mey., ‘  coming .’ The word will not bear this meaning in 1 Corinthians 7:26 , nor apparently (see note) in 2 Thessalonians 2:2 , much less in Rom 8:38 )  evil age (state of things; i.e. the course of this present evil world; and, as understood, make us citizens and inheritors of a better αἰῶνος , τοῦ μέλλοντος . So Luther: “vocat hunc totum mundum, qui fuit, est et erit, præsens seculum, ad differentiam futuri et æterni sæculi.” The allusion (Jowett) to the Jewish expressions, “the present age,” “the age to come,” as applying to the periods before and after the Messiah’s coming, is very faint, indeed hardly traceable, in the change which the terms had undergone as used in a spiritual sense by Christians. See however the rest of his note, which is full of interest).
	 κατὰ τὸ θέλημα  … ] And this, (1) not according to our own plan, in proportion to our legal obedience or any quality in us, but according to the Father’s sovereign will, the prime standard of all the process of redemption: and (2) not so that we may trifle with such rescuing purpose of Christ by mixing it with other schemes and fancies, seeing that it is according to a procedure prescribed by Him, who doeth all things after the counsel of His own will. And this, not as the lord merely of His works, but as πατρὸς ἡμῶν , bound to us in the ties of closest love for our good, as well as to fulfil His own eternal purpose. On the question, whether the genitive ἡμῶν depends on both, or only on the latter of the two nouns θεοῦ κ . πατρός , I agree in Ellicott’s conclusion, that as πατρός is regularly anarthrous, and thus purely grammatical considerations are confounded, as θεός conveys one absolute idea, while πατήρ might convey many relative ones, it is natural to believe that the Apostle may have added a defining genitive to πατήρ , which he did not intend to be referred to θεός . Render therefore,  God and our Father , not ‘  our God and Father .’