 12 .]  proof of this .  For neither ( οὐδὲ γάρ in negative sentences, answers to καὶ γάρ in positive; e.g. in Herod. i. 3, ἐπιστάμενον πάντως ὅτι οὐ δώσει δίκας · οὐδὲ γὰρ ἐκείνους διδόναι : omit the οὐ , and substitute καί for οὐδέ , and the sentence becomes affirmative. So that οὐδέ has nothing to do, except in ruling the negative form of the clause, with οὔτε following, but belongs to this clause only. See on the whole, Ellic.’s note)  did I ( ἐγώ strongly emphatic, see example from Herodot. above: ‘  neither did I, any more than the other Apostles .’ Thus this clause stands alone; the ‘  neither ’ is exhausted and does not extend to the next clause)  receive it (historically)  from man (i.e. ‘any man;’ not ‘  a man ,’ but generic, the article being omitted after the preposition as in Gal 1:1 ),  nor was taught it (dogmatically);  but through revelation of (i.e.  from , genitive subjective: see reff. Thdrt. (but not altogether: for he subjoins, αὐτὸς αὐτὸν ἔσχε διδάσκαλον ) al. take the genitive as objective, ‘  revelation of ,’ i.e.  revealing )  Jesus Christ .
	WHEN did this revelation take place? clearly, soon after his conversion, imparting to him as it did the knowledge of the Gospel which he afterwards preached; and therefore in all probability it is to be placed during that sojourn in Arabia referred to in Galatians 1:17 . It cannot be identical with the visions spoken of 2 Corinthians 12:1 ff., for 2 Cor. was written in A.D. 57, and fourteen years before that would bring us to A.D. 43, whereas his conversion was in 37 (see Chron. Table in Prolegomena, Vol. II.), and his subsequent silence, during which we may conceive him to have been under preparation by this apocalyptic imparting of the Gospel, lasted but three years, Galatians 1:18 .
	Nor can it be the same as that appearance of the Lord to him related Acts 22:18 , for that was not the occasion of any revelation, but simply of warning and command.
	He appears to refer to this special revelation in 1 Corinthians 11:23 (where see on the supposed distinction between ἀπό and παρά ); 1Co 15:3 . 1 Thessalonians 4:15 ; see notes in those places.