 7 ff.]  For it behoves an ( τόν , as so often (reff.), generic,  the , i.e. every: our English idiom requires the indefinite article)  overseer (see note, 1 Timothy 3:2 ; here most plainly identified with the presbyter spoken of before. So Thdrt.: ἐντεῦθεν δῆλον , ὡς τοὺς πρεσβυτέρους ἐπισκόπους ὠνόμαζον )  to be blameless, as God’s steward (see 1 Timothy 3:15 , to which image, that of a responsible servant and dispensator ( 1Pe 4:10 ) in the house of God, the allusion perhaps is, rather than to that of 1 Corinthians 4:1 . There is clearly no allusion to the ἐπίσκ .’s  own household , as Heydenr. supposes. Mack well remarks, meaning perhaps however more than the words convey, “  God’s steward ; consequently spiritual superiors are not merely servants and commissioned agents of the Church. According to the Apostle’s teaching, church government does not grow up out of the ground”),  not self-willed ( ἐπίσκοπος ἑκόντων ἄρχων , οὐκ ὀφείλει αὐθάδης εἶναι ὥστε αὐτογνώμως καὶ αὐτοβούλως καὶ ἄνευ γνώμης τῶν ἀρχομένων πράττειν . τυραννικὸν γὰρ τοῦτο , Thl. σεμνότης δ ʼ ἐστὶν αὐθαδείας ἀνὰ μέσον τε καὶ ἀρεσκείας , ἐστὶ δὲ περὶ τὰς ἐντεύξεις . ὅ τε γὰρ αὐθάδης τοιοῦτός ἐστιν οἷος μηθενὶ ἐντυχεῖν μηδὲ διαλεγῆναι , ἀλλὰ τοὔνομα ἔοικεν ἀπὸ τοῦ τρόπου κεῖσθαι · ὁ γὰρ αὐθάδης αὐτοάδης τίς ἐστιν , ἀπὸ τοῦ αὐτὸς αὐτῷ ἀρέσκειν , Aristot. Magn. Moral. i. 29: see also Theophr. Char. c. xvi. ( αὐθάδειά ἐστιν ἀπήνεια ὁμιλίας ἐν λόγοις ): Suicer, i. p. 572: and Ellic.’s note here),  not soon provoked ( οἱ μὲν οὖν ὀργίλοι ταχέως μὲν ὀργίζονται , καὶ οἷς οὐ δεῖ , καὶ ἐφ ʼ οἷς οὐ δεῖ , καὶ μᾶλλον ἢ δεῖ · παύονται δὲ ταχέως ὃ καὶ βέλτιστον ἔχουσι , Aristot. Eth. Nic. iv. 5: this meaning, and not Thdrt.’s, ὀργίλον δέ , τὸν μνησίκακον , must be taken),  not a brawler, not a striker (for both these, see 1 Timothy 3:3 , notes),  not greedy of gain (1 Timothy 3:8 , note),  but hospitable (1 Timothy 3:2 , note, and 3Jn 1:5 ),  a lover of good (cf. the opposite ἀφιλάγαθος , 2 Timothy 3:3 . It is hardly likely to mean a lover of  good men , coming so immediately after φιλόξενον . Thl. explains it, τὸν ἐπιεικῆ , τὸν μέτριον , τὸν μὴ φθονοῦντα . Dionys. Areop., Ep. viii. 1, p. 597, calls God τὸν ὑπεράγαθον καὶ φιλάγαθον and Clem. Alex., Pæd. iii. 11, p. 291 P., classes together ἀνδρία , σωφροσύνη , φιλαγαθία ),  self-restrained (see 1 Timothy 2:9 , note. I am not satisfied with this rendering, but adopt it for want of a better: “discreet is perhaps preferable.” See Ellic. on 1 Tim. as above),  just, holy (see on these, and their distinction, in notes on Ephesians 4:24 ; 1Th 2:10 ),  continent ( τὸν πάθους κρατοῦντα , τὸν καὶ γλώττης καὶ χειρὸς καὶ ὀφθαλμῶν ἀκολάστων · τοῦτο γὰρ ἐστὶν ἐγκράτεια , τὸ μηδενὶ ὑποσύρεσθαι πάθει , Chrys., and id. Epist. ii. ad Olympiad., vol. iii. p. 560 (Migne), ἐγκρατεύεσθαι ἐκεῖνόν φαμεν … τὸν ὑπό τινος ἐπιθυμίας ἐνοχλούμενον , καὶ κρατοῦντα ταύτης . See Suicer i. p. 998 ff., for a full explanation of the subsequent technical usages of the word. Here, the sense need not be limited to sexual continence, but may be spread over the whole range of the indulgences),  holding fast (see reff.: constantly keeping to, and not letting go, φροντίζοντα , ἔργον τοῦτο ποιούμενον , Chrys.
	Then how are we to take the following words? Is  τοῦ κατὰ τὴν διδαχὴν πιστοῦ λόγου equivalent to (1) τοῦ λόγου τοῦ κατὰ τὴν διδαχὴν πιστοῦ , or (2) τοῦ πιστοῦ λόγου τοῦ κατὰ τὴν διδαχήν ? (1) is taken by Wiesinger and Conyb. (  the words which are faithful to (?)  our teaching ): (2) by Chrys., Thl., and almost all Commentators, and I believe rightly. For ( α ) it is hard to believe that even in these Epistles, such a sentence could occur as ἀντεχόμενον ( τοῦ - κατὰ - τὴν - διδαχὴν - πιστοῦ ) λόγου : had this been intended, it would certainly have stood τοῦ λ . τοῦ κατὰ τὴν διδ . πιστοῦ : ( β ) the epithet  πιστός , absolute, is so commonly attached to λόγος in these Epistles (1 Timothy 1:15 ; 1 Timothy 3:1 ; 1 Timothy 4:9 ; 2 Timothy 2:11 ; ch. Tit 3:8 ) as to incline us, especially with the above reason, to take it absolutely here also. I therefore render accordingly)  the faithful (true, trustworthy, see note on 1Ti 1:15 )  word (which is)  according to (measured by, or in accordance with)  the instruction (  which he has received )  διδαχή may be  active , as Calv., ‘qui in ecclesiæ ædificationem sit utilis:’ Luth., ‘  dass lehren kann .’ But thus we should have a tautological sentence, in which the practice, and the result of the practice ( ἵνα κ . τ . λ .) would have the same power to instruct predicated of them: besides that ἀντεχόμενον would require some forcing to make it apply in this sense of ‘constantly  using .’ The passive acceptation of διδαχή is therefore preferable: and the meaning will be much the same as in 2 Timothy 3:14 , μένε ἐν οἷς ἔμαθες , cf. 1 Timothy 4:6 , οἱ λόγοι τῆς πίστεως καὶ τῆς καλῆς διδασκαλίας ᾗ παρηκολούθηκας . So Ellic. also),  that he may be able both to exhort (believers)  in (the element of his παράκλησις )  healthy teaching (the teaching which is healthy),  and to reprove (see Tit 1:13 below)  the gainsayers .