 1 .] The occurrence of  δοῦλος θεοῦ , not elsewhere found in the superscriptions of St. Paul’s Epistles, is a mark of genuineness: a forger would have been sure to suit every expression of this kind to the well-known habits of the Apostle.
	 ἀπ  .   δέ ]  δέ further defines a servant of God, this is general:  but a more particular designation also belongs to the present matter.  κατὰ πίστιν has been variously rendered: (1) ‘  according to the faith of ,’ &c., so E. V., Luth., Matthies, al.: (2) similarly Calv., Beza, Aret., ‘mutuus est inter meum apostolatum et fidem electorum Dei consensus:’ (3) ‘  so as to bring about faith in ,’ &c., as De W., justifying it by κατὰ τὴν ληΐην ἐκπλώσαντες , Herod. ii. 152, κατὰ θέαν ἥκειν , Thuc. vi. 31, so also Thdrt. ( ὥστε πιστεῦσαι τῆς ἐκλογῆς ἀξίους , Œc. 2, Thl. 1, Jer., Grot., al., but see below). We may at once say that (1) and (2) are inadmissible, as setting up a standard which the Apostle would not have acknowledged for his Apostleship, and as not suiting ἐπίγνωσιν below, which also belongs to the κατά . Nor do the instances given to justify (3) apply here: for as Huther has observed, in them it is the  acquisition of the noun which is spoken of: so that here it would be to  get , not to  produce faith. The best sense seems to be that which he gives, that of  reference, ‘with regard to,’ i.e. to bring about, cherish, and perfect: nearly in the same sense as εἰς ὑπακοὴν πίστεως , Romans 1:5 . See also 2 Timothy 1:1 . I would render then ‘  for :’  Paul, a servant of God, but an Apostle of Jesus Christ, for (on this sense of  κατά ,  destination , see Ellic.’s note)  the faith of the elect of God (those whom God has chosen of the world reff.: and  their faith is the only true faith the only faith which the apostolic office would sub-serve)  and the thorough knowledge (reff. and notes: subjective, and κατά as before to promote the knowledge. Thl. gives as an alternative, διότι ἐπέγνεν τὴν ἀλή θειαν , διὰ τοῦτο ἐπιστεύθην κ . τ . λ .)  of the truth which is according to (belongs to, is conversant in and coincident with: for as Chrys., ἐστὶν ἀλήθεια πραγμάτων ἀλλ ʼ οὐ κατ ʼ εὐσέβειαν , οἷον τὸ εἰδέναι τὰ γεωργικά , τὸ εἰδέναι τέχνας , ἀληθῶς ἐστὶν εἰδέναι · ἀλλ ʼ αὕτη κατ ʼ εὐσέβειαν ἡ ἀλήθεια .  κατά cannot, as De W., import the  aim , ‘which  leads to εὐσ .:’ it does not  lead to it, but rather runs parallel with)  piety ,