 2 .]  in hope (on condition of, in a state of, see note on ἐφ ʼ ᾧ , Rom 5:12 )  of life eternal (to what are the words ἐπ ʼ ἐλπίδι ζ . αἰ . to be referred? Not back to ἀπόστολος , regarding them as a co-ordinate clause with κατὰ πίστιν κ . τ . λ . (not for the reason assigned by Huther, that thus καί would be required, cf. the similar sentence, Romans 16:25-26 , but because such a personal reference would not agree with Tit 1:3 below, where his preaching, not his prospects, is in question): not to κατὰ πίστιν καὶ ἐπίγ . τ . ἀλ . as subordinate to it nor to εὐσέβειαν , nor to any one  portion of the preceding sentence: for by such reference we develope an inferior member of the former sentence into what evidently is an expansion of the main current of thought, and thus give rise to a disproportion: but to the whole, from κατὰ πίστιν to εὐσέβ ., as subordinate to that whole, and further conditioning or defining it: q. d., that the elect of God may believe and thoroughly know the truth which is according to piety, in hope of eternal life),  which (eternal life: not ἀλήθεια , nor ἐλπίς )  God who cannot lie (so μαντήϊον ἀψευδές , Herod. i. 49: Eur. Orest. 364, ἀψευδὴς θεός , ὅς μοι τάδ ʼ εἶπεν ἐμφανῶς παρασταθείς : see Wetst. and cf. Heb 6:18 )  promised from eternal ages (the very distinct use of πρὸ χρόνων αἰωνίων in 2 Timothy 1:9 , where the meaning ‘  from ancient times ’ is precluded, should have kept Commentators from endeavouring to fix that sense on the words here. The solution of the difficulty, that no promise was actually made till the race of man existed, must be found by regarding, as in 2 Tim. l. c., the construction as a mixed one, compounded of the actual promise made in time, and the divine purpose from which that promise sprung, fixed in eternity. Thus, as there God is said to have given us grace in Christ from eternal ages, meaning that the gift took place as the result of a divine purpose fixed from eternity, so here He is said to have promised eternal life from eternal ages, meaning that the promise took place as the result of a purpose fixed from eternity. So Thdrt. ταῦτα γὰρ ἄνωθεν μὲν καὶ πρὸ αἰώνων ἐδέδοκτο τῷ τῶν ὅλων θεῷ · δῆλα δὲ πεποίηκεν , ὅτε ἐδοκίμασε ),