 12 .]  One of them (not, of the πολλοί spoken of above, nor, of the οἱ ἐκ περιτομῆς : but of the inhabitants of Crete, to which both belonged),  their own prophet (see below)  said, “The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, slow bellies ” (Thl. says: ὁ μὲν οὖν εἰρηκώς , Ἐπιμενίδης ἐστίν , ἐν τοῖς μάλιστα τῶν παρ ʼ Ἕλλησι σοφῶν θειασμοῖς καὶ ἀποτροπιασμοῖς προσέχων , καὶ μαντικὴν δοκῶν κατορθοῦν . And so also Chrys., Epiph., and Jer. But Thdrt. ascribes the verse to Callimachus, in whose Hymn to Zeus, Titus 1:8 , the words Κρῆτες ἀεὶ ψεῦσται are found. To this however Jer. (as also Epiph.) answers, “integer versus de Epimenide poeta ab Apostolo sumptus est, et ejus Callimachus in suo poemate usus est exordio.”
	EPIMENIDES was a native of Phæstus in Crete ( Ἐπιμ . ὁ Φαίστιος , Plut. Solon 12: or Cnossus, Diog. Laert. i. 109, Κρὴς τὸ γένος , ἀπὸ Κνώσσου . He makes his  father’s name to have been Φαίστιος : πατρὸς μὲν ἦν Φαιστίου , οἱ δέ , Δωσιάδου , οἱ δὲ Ἀγησάρκου ), and lived about 600 B.C. He was sent for to Athens to undertake the purification of the city from the pollution occasioned by Cylon (see artt. ‘Epimenides’ and ‘Cylon,’ in the Dict. of Biogr. and Mythol.), and is said to have lived to an extreme old age, and to have been buried at Lacedæmon (Diog. Laert. i. 115). The appellation ‘  prophet ’ seems to have belonged to him in its literal sense: see Cicero, de Divin. i. 18, “qui concitatione quadam animi, aut soluto liberoque motu futura præsentiunt, ut Baris Bœotius, ut Epimenides Cres:” so also Apuleius, Florid. ii. 15. 4, “necnon et Cretensem Epimenidem, inclytum fatiloquum et poetam:” see also id. Apol. 449. Diog. Laert. also gives instances of his prophetic power, and says, λέγουσι δέ τινες ὅτι Κρῆτες αὐτῷ θύουσιν ὡς θεῷ . On the character here given of the Cretans, see Prolegg. to this Epistle, § ii. 9 ff. As to the words,  κακὰ θηρία is abundantly illustrated out of various writers by Wetst., Kypke, and Raphel:  γαστέρες ἀργαί is said of those who by indulging their bodily appetites have become corpulent and indolent: so Juv. Sat. iv. 107, “Montani quoque venter adest abdomine tardus”).