 15 .]  The Apostle’s own answer to those who would enforce these commandments .  All things (absolutely all things with which man can be concerned)  are pure to the pure ( οὐδὲν ὁ θεὸς ἀκάθαρτον ἐποίησεν · οὐδὲν γὰρ ἀκάθαρτον , εἰ μὴ ἡ ἁμαρτία μόνη . ψυχῆς γὰρ ἅπτεται καὶ ταύτην ῥυποῖ , Chrys. ‘Omnia externa iis qui intus sunt mundi, munda sunt,’ Bengel. Cf. Matthew 23:26 ; Luke 11:41 . There is no ground whatever for supposing this to be a maxim of the false teachers, quoted by the Apostle, any more than the πάντα μοι ἔξεστιν of 1 Corinthians 6:12 , where see note. The maxim here is a truly Christian one of the noblest order.
	 τοῖς καθαροῖς is the dat. commodi, ‘for the pure to use,’ not, as often taken, ‘in the judgment of the pure.’ This is plainly shewn by the use of the same dative in Romans 14:14 , where to render it ‘in the judgment of’ would introduce an unmeaning tautology: τῷ λογιζομένῳ τι κοινὸν εἶναι , ἐκείνῳ κοινόν ‘to him (for his use) it is really κοινόν .’ As usual in these Epistles (see Prolegg. § i. 38),  purity is inseparably connected with soundness in the faith, cf. Acts 15:9 , and 1 Timothy 4:3 , where our τοῖς καθαροῖς is expanded into τοῖς πιστοῖς καὶ ἐπεγνωκόσιν τὴν ἀλήθειαν ),  but to the polluted and unbelieving (cf. the preceding remarks)  nothing is pure, but both (or ‘  even ,’ as E. V.: but the other seems preferable, on account of the close correspondence of καὶ ὁ νοῦς with καὶ ἡ συνείδ .)  their mind (their rational part, Ephesians 4:17 , which presides over and leads all the determinate acts and thoughts of the man)  and their conscience is polluted (ef. Dion. Hal. de Thucyd. 8, κράτιστον δὲ πάντων τὸ μηδὲν ἑκουσίως ψεύδεσθαι , μηδὲ μιαίνειν τὴν αὑτοῦ συνείδησιν .
	And therefore, uncleanness tainting their rational acts and their reflective self-recognitions, nothing can be pure to them: every occasion becomes to them an occasion of sin, every creature of God an instrument of sin; as Mack well observes, “the relation, in which the sinful subject stands to the objects of its possession or of its inclination, is a sinful one.” Philo de legg. spec. ad 6 Esther 7:0 dec. cap. § 337, vol. ii. p. 333 f., has a sentence which might be a comment on our verse: ἀκάθαρτος γὰρ κυρίως ὁ ἄδικος καὶ ἀσεβὴς … πάντα φύρων καὶ συγχέων διά τε τὰς ἀμετρίας τῶν παθῶν καὶ τὰς τῶν κακῶν ὑπερβολάς · ὥστε ὧν ἂν ἐφάψηται πραγμάτων πάντα ἐστὶν ἐπίληπτα τῇ τοῦ δρῶντος συμμεταβάλλοντα μοχθηρίᾳ . καὶ γὰρ κατὰ τὸ ἐναντίον αἱ πράξεις τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἐπαινεταί , βελτιούμεναι ταῖς τῶν ἐνεργούντων ἀρεταῖς , ἐπειδὴ πέφυκέ πως τὰ γινόμενα τοῖς δρῶσιν ἐξομοιοῦσθαι . Here again, the reference of the saying has been variously mistaken ἡ ῥυπαρὰ διάνοια κακῶς περὶ τούτων λογιζομένη ἑαυτῇ συμμιαίνει ταῦτα , Œc.: and similarly Chrys., Thl., al.: ‘non placent Deo quæ agunt etiam circa res medias, quia actiones tales ex animo Deus æstimat,’ Grot.: ‘iis nihil prodest externa ablutio et ciborum dierumque observatio,’ Baldwin, Croc. in De W.).