The like figure whereunto. Following a rejected reading, w, to which; so that the literal rendering would be the antitype to which. Read o ajntitupon, which, the antitype or as an antitype; i e., which water, being the antitype of that water of the flood, doth now save you, even baptism. Rev., which, after a true likeness doth now, etc. 'Antitupon, figure, or antitype, is from ajnti, over against, and tupov, a blow. Hence, originally, repelling a blow : a blow against a blow; a counterblow. So of an echo or of the reflection of light; then a correspondence, as of a stamp to the die, as here. The word occurs only once elsewhere, Hebrews 9:24 : "the figures of the true." Putting away [αποθεσις] . Peculiar to Peter. Here and 2 Peter 1:14. Filth [ρυπου] . Only here in New Testament. In classical Greek signifying especially dry dirt, as on the person. Answer [επερωτημα] . Only here in New Testament. In classical Greek the word means a question and nothing else. The meaning here is much disputed, and can hardly be settled satisfactorily. The rendering answer has no warrant. The meaning seems to be (as Alford), "the seeking after God of a good and pure conscience, which is the aim and end of the Christian baptismal life." So Lange : "The thing asked may be conceived as follows : 'How shall I rid myself of an evil conscience? Wilt thou, most holy God, again accept me, a sinner ? Wilt thou, Lord Jesus, grant me the communion of thy death and life ? Wilt thou, O Holy Spirit, assure me of grace and adoption, and dwell in my heart ?' To these questions the triune Jehovah answers in baptism, 'Yea!' Now is laid the solid foundation for a good conscience. The conscience is not only purified from its guilt, but it receives new vital power by means of the resurrection of Jesus Christ." This is the sense of ejperwtan eijv, in the only place where it occurs in scripture, 2 Samuel 11:7 (Sept.) : "David asked of him how Joab did [επερωτησεν εις ειρηνην ιωαβ] ." Lit., with reference to the peace of Joab. Rev. renders, the interrogation, and puts inquiry, appeal, in margin.