 2 .]  in order that (aim of ἐρωτῶμεν )  ye should not be lightly (soon and with small reason)  shaken (properly of the waves agitated by a storm)  from (see reff.)  your mind (  νοῦς here in its general sense your mental apprehension of the subject: not ‘your former more correct sentiment,’ as Est., Corn.-a-lap., Grot., al.)  nor yet troubled (reff.),  neither (on  μηδέ , which is disjunctive ( δέ ), and separates negative from negative, and  μήτε , which is adjunctive ( τε ), and connects the separate parts of the same negation, see Winer, Gr. edn. 6, § 55. 6; and cf. Luk 9:3 )  by spirit (by means of spiritual gift of prophecy or the like, assumed to substantiate such a view)  nor by word (  of. mouth : belongs closely to μήτε δι ʼ ἐπιστ . following, as is shewn by 2 Thessalonians 2:15 , where they again appear together)  nor by epistle as by (agency of)  us (pretending to be from us. Let no pretended saying, no pretended epistle of mine, shake you in this matter. That there were such, is shewn by this parallel position of the clauses with διὰ πνεύματος , which last agency certainly was among them. Sayings, and an epistle, to this effect, were ascribed to the Apostle. So Chrys.: ἐνταῦθα δοκεῖ μοι αἰνίττεσθαι περϊιέναι τινὰς ἐπιστολὴν πλάσαντας δῆθεν ἀπὸ τοῦ Παύλου , κ . ταύτην ἐπιδεικνυμένους λέγειν ὡς ἄρα ἐφέστηκεν ἡ ἡμέρα τοῦ κυρίου , ἵνα πολλοὺς ἐντεῦθεν πλανήσωσιν . However improbable this may seem, our expression would seem hardly to bear legitimately any other meaning. Cf. also ch. 2 Thessalonians 3:17 , and note. It is impossible to understand the ἐπιστολὴ ὡς δι ʼ ἡμῶν of the first Epistle,  wrongly understood , which certainly would have been more plainly expressed, and the Epistle not as here disowned, but explained. Jowett says, “The most probable hypothesis is, that the Apostle is not referring definitely to any particular speech or epistle, but to the possibility only of some one or other being used against him.” But this seems hardly definite enough)  to the effect that (‘  as if ,’ or ‘  as that .’ Lünem. is quite wrong in saying that ὡς shews that the matter indicated by ὅτι is groundless, see 2 Corinthians 5:19 , and note)  the day of the Lord is present (not, ‘  is at hand :’ ἐνίστημι occurs six times besides (reff.) in the N. T., and always in the sense of  being present : in two of those places, Romans 8:38 , 1 Corinthians 3:22 , τὰ ἐνεστῶτα are distinguished expressly from τὰ μέλλοντα . Besides which, St. Paul could not have so written, nor could the Spirit have so spoken by him. The teaching of the Apostles was, and of the Holy Spirit in all ages has been, that the day of the Lord  is at hand . But these Thessalonians imagined it to be already come, and accordingly were deserting their pursuits in life, and falling into other irregularities, as if the day of grace were closed. So Chrys., ὁ διάβολος … ἐπειδὴ οὐκ ἴσχυσε πεῖσαι ὅτι ψευδῆ τὰ μέλλοντα , ἑτέραν ἦλθεν ὁδόν , καὶ καταθεὶς ἀνθρώπους τινὰς λυμεῶνας , ἐπεχείρει τοὺς πειθομένους ἀπατᾷν , ὅτι τὰ μεγάλα ἐκεῖνα καὶ λαμπρὰ τέλος εἴληφε . τότε μὲν οὖν ἔλεγον ἐκεῖνοι τὴν ἀνάστασιν ἤδη γεγονέναι · νῦν δὲ ἔλεγον ὅτι ἐνέστηκεν ἡ κρίσις καὶ ἡ παρουσία τοῦ χριστοῦ , ἵνα τὸν χριστὸν αὐτὸν ψεύδει ὑποβάλωσι , καὶ πείσαντες ὡς οὐκ ἔστι λοιπὸν ἀντίδοσις οὐδὲ δικαστήριον καὶ κόλασις καὶ τιμωρία τοῖς κακῶς πεποιηκόσιν , ἐκείνους τε θρασυτέρους ἐργάσωνται , καὶ τούτους ταπεινοτέρους . καὶ τὸ δὴ πάντων χαλεπώτερον , ἐπεχείρουν οἱ μὲν ἁπλῶς ῥήματα ἀπαγγέλλειν ὡς παρὰ τοῦ Παύλου ταῦτα λεγόμενα , οἱ δὲ καὶ ἐπιστολὰς πράττειν ὡς παρ ʼ ἐκείνου γραφείσας . Hom. in 2 Thessalonians 1:1 , vol. xi. p. 469).