 16, 17 .]  αὐτός , as a majestic introduction, in contrast with ἡμῶν , see 1 Thessalonians 3:11 , and as  ensuring the efficacy of the wish q. d. ‘and then you are safe.’ Our Lord Jesus Christ is placed first, not merely because He is the mediator between men and God (Lün.), but because the sentence is a climax.
	 ὁ ἀγ  .   ἡμ  .   κ  .  τ  .  λ  . probably refers to ὁ θεὸς κ . ὁ πατ . ἡμ . alone: and yet when we consider how impossible it would have been for the Apostle to have written οἱ ἀγαπήσαντες , and that the singular verb following undoubtedly refers to both, I would not too hastily pronounce this. See note on 1 Thessalonians 3:11 .
	 ἀγαπήσας  who loved us refers to a single fact the love of the Father in sending His Son or the love of the Father and Son in our accomplished Redemption.
	 κ  .   δούς  and gave by that act of Love.
	 παράκλ  .   αἰων  . ]  consolation , under all trials, and that  eternal , not transitory, as this world’s consolations: sufficient in life, and in death, and for ever: cf. Romans 8:38 f. This for all time present: and then  ἐλπ  .   ἀγ  . for the future.
	 ἐν χάριτι belongs, not to  ἐλπ  .   ἀγ  . , but to  δούς , and is the medium through, or element in which, the gift is made. Better thus than to refer it to both the participles  ἀγαπ  .   κ  .   δούς ; for  ὁ ἀγαπήσας as applied to God (or the Lord Jesus) usually stands absolute, cf. Romans 8:37 ; Galatians 2:20 ; Ephesians 5:2 .
	 παρακαλέσαι ] as in 1 Thessalonians 3:11 ; 1Th 3:3 pers. sing. opt. aor.  comfort , with reference to your disquiet respecting the παρουσία . After στηρ . understand ὑμᾶς , which has been supplied see var. readd., better than τὰς καρδ . ὑμῶν , which are not the agents in ἔργον and λόγος . This latter is not ‘  doctrine ,’ as Chrys., Calv. (‘tam in piæ et sanctæ vitæ cursu, quam in sana doctrina’), for ἔργον (  work ) and λόγος (  word ), seeing that παντί applies to both, must be correlative, and both apply to matters in which the man is an agent. Still less must we understand  ἐν as = διὰ (Chrys., Thl. 2, Beng., al.): the sphere, and not the instruments, of the consolation and confirmation, is spoken of.