 3 .]  Let no man deceive you in any manner (not only in either of the foregoing, but in any whatever):  for (  that day shall not come ) (so E. V. supplies, rightly. There does not seem to have been any intention on the part of the Apostle to fill up the ellipsis: it supplies itself in the reader’s mind. Knatchbull connects ὅτι with ἐξαπατήσῃ , and supplies ἐνέστηκεν after it: but this is very harsh)  unless there have come the apostasy first (of which he had told them when present, see 2 Thessalonians 2:5 ; and probably with a further reference still to our Lord’s prophecy in Matthew 24:10-12 . There is no need, with Chrys., Thdrt., Thl., Aug., to suppose  ἀποστασία to mean  Antichrist himself ( τί ἐστιν ἡ ὰποστασία ; αὐτὸν καλεῖ τὸν ἀντίχριστον ἀποστασίαν , Chr.), nor to regard him as its only cause: rather is he the chief fruit and topstone of the apostasy),  and there have been revealed (ref. ch. 1. As Christ in his time, so Antichrist in his time, is ‘  revealed ’ brought out into light: he too is a μυστήριον , to be unfolded and displayed: see 2Th 2:8-9 )  the man of sin (in whom sin is as it were personified, as righteousness in Christ. The gen. is called by Ellicott that of the  predominating quality ),  the son of perdition (see ref. John, where our Lord uses the expression of Judas. It seems merely to refer to Antichrist himself, whose essence and inheritance is ἀπώλεια , not to his influence over others, as Thdrt. (both: ὡς κ . αὐτὸν ἀπολλύμενον , κ . ἑτέροις πρόξενον τούτου γενόμενον ), Œc., Pelt, al.),  he that withstands (the construction is not to be carried on by zeugma, as if ἐπὶ πάντα κ . τ . λ . belonged to ἀντικείμενος as well as to ὑπεραιρόμενος (the omission of the second article is no proof of this, as Pelt supposes, but only that both predicates belong to one and the same subject), but ἀντικείμενος is absolute, ‘  he that withstands CHRIST,’ the  ἀντί χριστος , 1Jn 2:18 ),  and exalts himself above (in a hostile sense, reff.)  every one that is called God (cf. λεγόμενοι θεοί , 1 Corinthians 8:5 . “The expression includes the  true God, as well as the false ones of the heathen but λεγόμενον is a natural addition from Christian caution, as πάντα θεόν would have been a senseless and indeed blasphemous expression for a Christian.” Lünem.)  or an object of adoration (=  numen , and is a generalization of θεόν . Cf. the close parallel in Daniel 11:36-37 (Theod. and similarly LXX): κ . ὁ βασιλεὺς ὑψωθήσεται κ . μεγαλυνθήσεται ἐπὶ πάντα θεόν , κ . τ . λ .),  so that he sits (not αὑτὸν … καθίσαι , as Grot., Pelt, al., but καθίσαι , intransitive, as in reff.)  in (  constr. prægnans ‘enters into and sits in.’ The aor. usually denotes that one definite act and not a series of acts is spoken of: but here, from the peculiar nature of the verb, that one act is the  setting himself down , and the  session remains after it: cf. Matthew 5:1 ; Matthew 19:28 , &c.)  the temple of God (this, say De W. and Lünemann after Irenæus, Hær. v. 30. 4, p. 330 (cited in Prolegg. § 2Th 2:3 note), cannot be any other than  the temple at Jerusalem : on account of the definiteness of the expression,  ὁ ναὸς τοῦ θεοῦ , and on account of  καθίσαι . But there is no force in this. ὁ ναὸς τοῦ θεοῦ to used metaphorically by St. Paul in 1Co 3:17 bis: and why not here? see also 1 Corinthians 6:16 ; Ephesians 2:21 . From these passages it to plain that such figurative sense was familiar to the Apostle. And if so, καθίσαι makes no difficulty. Its figurative sense, as holding a place of power, sitting as judge or ruler, is more frequent still: see in St. Paul, 1 Corinthians 6:4 ; and Matthew 23:2 ; Revelation 20:4 ; to which indeed we might add the many places where our Lord is said καθίσαι on the right hand of God, e.g. Hebrews 1:3 ; Hebrews 8:1 ; Hebrews 10:12 ; Hebrews 12:2 ; Revelation 3:21 . Respecting the  interpretation , see Prolegomena, § v.)  shewing himself ( πειρώμενον ἀποδεικνύναι , Chrys. Hardly that, but the sense of the  present , as in ὁ πειράζων it is his  habit and  office to exhibit himself as God)  that he it God (not ‘a god,’ nor is it equivalent to ὁ θεός but designates the divine dignity which he predicates of himself. The construction is an attraction, for ἀποδ . ὅτι αὑτὸς …; and the emphasis is on  ἐστιν , ‘that he IS God’).