 42.   μὴ ἐχόντων  …   ἐχαρίσατο ] What depth of meaning there is in these words, if we reflect WHO said them, and by what means this forgiveness was to be wrought! Observe that the  μὴ ἐχ  . is pregnant with more than at first appears:  how is this incapacity discovered to the creditor in the parable? how, but  by themselves? Here then is the  sense and  confession of sin; not a bare objective fact, followed by a decree of forgiveness: but the incapacity is an  avowed one, the forgiveness is a  personal one,  ἀμφοτέροις  .
	 τίς ουν  …; ] The difficulty usually found in this question and its answer is not wholly removed by the subjective nature of the parable. For the sense of sin, if wholesome and rational, must bear a proportion, as indeed in this case it did, to the actual sins committed: and then we seem to come to the false conclusion, ‘The more sin, the more love: let us then sin, that we may love the more.’ And I believe this difficulty is to be removed by more accurately considering  what the love is , which is here spoken of. It is an unquestionable fact, that the  deepest penitents are, in  one kind of love for Him who has forgiven them, the most devoted; in that, namely, which consists in personal sacrifice, and proofs of earnest attachment to the blessed Saviour and His cause on earth. But it is no less an unquestionable fact, that  this love is not the highest form of the spiritual life; that such persons are, by their very course of sin, incapacitated from entering into the length, breadth, and height, and being filled with all the fulness of Christ; that their views are generally narrow, their aims onesided: that though ἀγάπη be the greatest of the Christian graces, there are various kinds of it; and though the love of the reclaimed profligate may be and is intense of its kind, (and how touching and beautiful its manifestations are, as here!) yet  that kind is not so high nor complete as the sacrifice of the  whole life , the bud, blossom, and fruit, to His service to whom we were in baptism dedicated. For even on the ground of the parable itself, in that life there is a continually freshened sense of the need, and the assurance, of pardon, ever awaking devoted and earnest love.