 36 38. ] The exact time and place are indeterminate the occasion of Luke’s inserting the history here may have been the φίλος τελωνῶν κ . ἁμαρτωλῶν in Luke 7:34 . Wieseler places it  at Nain , which certainly is the last πόλις that has been named: but it is more natural to suppose τῇ πόλει to refer only to τῇ οἰκίᾳ before the city where the house was. Meyer thinks that the definite article points out Capernaum. The position of the words  ἐν τ  .   πόλει in the amended text requires a different rendering from ‘a woman in the city which was a sinner.’ We must either render, ‘which was a sinner in the city,’ i.e. known as such in the place by public repute, carrying on a sinful occupation in the place, or (2) regard  ἥτ  .   ἦν ἐν τ  .   πόλ  . as parenthetic, ‘a woman which was in the city, a sinner.’ The latter seems preferable.
	 ἁμαρτωλός  , in the sense usually understood  a prostitute: but, by the context,  penitent .
	 ἦν is not however to be taken as a pluperfect. She  was , even up to this time (see Luk 7:39 ), a prostitute (compare Augustine, Serm. xcix. (xxiii.) 2, vol. v. “Accessit ad Dominum immunda, ut rediret munda:” which cannot, as Wordsw., be explained away by what follows, “accessit confessa, ut rediret professa.” The latter was a matter of course, otherwise she would not have come at all) and this was the first manifestation of her penitence. “Quid mirum, tales ad Christum confugisse, cum et ad Johannis baptismum venerint?” Matthew 21:32 (Grotius). It is possible, that the woman may have just heard the closing words of the discourse concerning John, Matthew 11:28-30 ; but I would not press this, on account of the obvious want of sequence in this part of our Gospel. The behaviour of the woman certainly implies that she had heard our Lord, and been awakened by His teaching.
	 ἀλάβ  .   μ  . ] For the word, &c., see on Matthew 26:7 . Our Lord would, after the ordinary custom of persons at table, be reclining on a couch, on the left side, turned towards the table, and His feet would be behind Him. She seems to have embraced His feet (see Mat 28:9 ), as it was also the Jews’ custom to do by way of honour and affection to their Rabbis (see Wetstein on this passage), and kissed them, and in doing so to have shed abundant tears, which, falling on them, she wiped off with her hair. It does not appear that this latter was an  intentional part of her honouring our Lord: had it been, there would hardly have been an article before  δάκρυσιν  . As it stands,  τοῖς δάκρυσιν is  the tears, implied in κλαίουσα ,  the tears which she shed, not ‘  her tears ,’ which would be δάκρυσιν only. The  ointment here has a peculiar interest, as being the offering by a penitent of that which had been an accessory in her unhallowed work of sin.