 47. ] This verse has been found very difficult to fit into the lesson conveyed by the Parable. But I think there need be little difficulty, if we regard it thus.
	Simon had been offended at the uncleanness of the woman who touched our Lord. He, having given the Pharisee the instruction contained in the parable, and having drawn the contrast between the woman’s conduct and his, now assures him, ‘Wherefore, seeing this is so, I say unto thee, she is no longer unclean her many sins are forgiven:  for (thou seest that)  she loved much: her conduct towards Me shews that love, which is a token that her sins are forgiven.’ Thus the  ὅτι is not the causative particle, ‘  because she loved much;’ but, as rightly rendered in E. V.,  for she loved much: ‘  for she has shewn that love, of which thou mayest conclude, from what thou hast heard, that it is the effect of a sense of forgiveness .’ Thus Bengel, ‘Remissio peccatorum, Simoni non cogitata, probatur  a fructu , Luke 7:42 , qui est evidens et in oculos incurrit, quum illa sit occulta;’ and Calov., ‘probabat Christus  a posteriori .’
	But there is a deeper consideration in this solution, which the words of the Lord in Luk 7:48 bring before us. The  sense of forgiveness of  sin is not altogether correspondent to the sense of forgiveness of  a debt . The latter must be altogether past, and a fact to be looked back on, to awaken gratitude: the former, by no means so. The  expectation , the  desire , and  hope of forgiveness, the πίστις of Luke 7:50 , awoke this love; just as in our Christian life, the love daily awakened by a sense of forgiveness, yet is gathered under and summed up in a general faith and expectation, that ‘in that day’ all will be found to have been forgiven. The ἄφεσις τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν , into which we have been baptized, and in which we live, yet waits for that great ἀφέωνταί σου αἱ ἁμαρτίαι , which He will then pronounce.
	The aorist  ἠγάπησεν is in apposition with the aorists throughout Luke 7:44-46 , as referring to the same facts.
	Remark that the assertion regarding Simon is not αἱ ὀλίγαι ἀφέωνται , but ὀλίγον ἀφίεται ; stamping the subjective character of the part relating to him: he  felt , or  cared about, but little forgiveness , and his little love shewed this to be so: on the whole, see Bleek’s note.