He was transfigured [μετεμορφωθη] , meta, denoting change or transfer, and morfh, form. This latter word denotes the form regarded as the distinctive nature and character of the object, and is distinguished from schma, the changeable, outward fashion : in a man, for instance, his gestures, clothes, words, acts. The morfh partakes of the essence of a thing; the schma is an accident which may change, leaving the form unaffected. Compare Mark 16:12; Christ "appeared in another form" [μορφη] , and 1 Corinthians 7:31 : "the fashion [σχημα] of the word passeth away." The distinction passes into the verbs compounded with these two nouns. Thus, Romans 12:2, "Be not conformed to this world," is suschmatizesqe; i e., be not fashioned according to the fleeting fashion of this world. So Rev., fashioned. See, also, 2 Corinthians 11:13, 2 Corinthians 11:14, 2 Corinthians 11:15, where the changes described are changes in outward semblance. False apostles appeared in the outward fashion of apostles of Christ; Satan takes on the outward appearance of an angel. All these changes are in the accidents of the life, and do not touch its inner, essential quality. On the other hand, a change in the inner life is described as a change of morfh, never of schma. Hence, Romans 12:2, " Be ye transformed [μεταμορφουσθε] ; the change taking place by the reviewing of the mind. Compare Romans 8:29; 2 Corinthians 3:18; Philippians 3:21; and see, further, on Philippians 2:6, Philippians 2:7. Why, then, it may be asked, is a compound of morfh employed in this description of the transfigured Savior, since the change described is a change in his outward appearance ? It may be answered, because a compound of schma, expressing merely a change in the aspect of Christ 's person and garments, would not express the deeper truth of the case, which is, that the visible change gets its real character and meaning from that which is essential in our Lord - his divine nature. A foreshadowing or prophecy of his true form - his distinctive character - comes out in his transfiguration. He passes over into a form identified, so far as revealed, with the divine quality of his being, and prophetic of his revelation "as he is" (1 John 3:2), in the glory which he had with the Father before the world was (John 17:5). In truth, there is a deep and pregnant hint in the use of this word, which easily escapes observation, and which defies accurate definition. The profound and overwhelming impression upon the three disciples was due to something besides the shining of Christ 's face and garments, and the presence of Moses and Elijah; and was deeper and subtler than the effect of all these combined. There was a fact and a power in that vision which mere radiance and the appearance of the patriarchs could not wholly convey : a revelation of Deity breaking out in that glorified face and form, which appealed to something deeper than sense, and confirmed the words from heaven : This is my beloved Son. The same truth is illustrated in the use of morfh in Mark 16:12, where it is said that Jesus appeared in a different form [εν ετερα μορφη] after his resurrection. The accidents of figure, face, pierced hands and feet, were the same; but an indefinable change had passed upon him, the characteristic of which was that it prefigured his passing into the condition peculiar and appropriate to his essential spiritual and divine being.