 32 .] The stress of the first clause is on  κατὰ ἄνθρωπον , and its meaning,  merely as man , i.e. ‘  according to this world’s views ,’ ‘as one who has no hope beyond the grave;’see ref. If  thus only he fought, &c., where was his profit (seeing he despised all those things which κατὰ ἄνθρωπον might compensate for such a fight, fame, praise, &c.)? The renderings, ὅσον τὸ εἰς ἀνθρώπους (Chrys. p. 381), i.e. ‘so far as one can be said θηριομαχεῖν against men,’ and κατὰ ἀνθρώπων λογισμὸν θηρίων ἐγενόμην βορά (Theodoret), ‘  exempli causa ’ (Semler, Rosenmüller), ‘  ut hominum more loquar ’ (Estius and Bloomf.), are all constrained, and scarcely to be extorted from the words.
	 ἐθηριομάχησα ]  I fought with beasts (aor. referring to  one special occasion ). How? and when? Most ancient and modern Commentators take the expression figuratively, as used in Appian, B. C. ii. p. 763 (Wetst.), where Pompey says, οἵοις θηρίοις μαχόμεθα , and Ignat. ad Romans 5:0 , p. 689 f., ἀπὸ Συρίας μέχρι Ῥώμης θηριομαχῶ διὰ γῆς κ . θαλάσσης , δεδεμένος δέκα λεοπάρδοις , ὅ ἐστι στρατιωτικὸν τάγμα . So, of our text, Tertull. de Resurr. 48, vol. ii. p. 865: “Depugnavit ad bestias Ephesi, illas scilicet bestias Asiaticæ pressuræ.”
	And this explanation must be right: for his Roman citizenship would have precluded his ever being literally thrown to beasts: and even supposing him to have waived it, and been miraculously rescued, as Ambrst [73] , Theodoret, Erasm., Luther, Calv., al. suppose, is it conceivable that such an event should have been altogether unrecorded in the Acts? Adopting the figurative rendering, we cannot fix on any recorded conflict which will suit the words. His danger from Demetrius and his fellow-craftsmen (Acts 19:0 ) had not yet happened (see Prolegg. § vi. 2): but we cannot tell what opposition, justifying this expression, the ἀντικείμενοι πολλοί of ch. 1Co 16:9 may ere this have made to his preaching.
	 [73] Ambr  osia st  er , i.e.  Hilary the Deacon , fl. 384
	 εἰ νεκρ .]  If dead men rise not , i.e. ‘  if none of the dead rise .’ These words are best joined with the following, as Chrys., Theophyl., Beza, Bengel, Griesb., Meyer, De Wette, al. not with the preceding, as Theodoret, Grot., Est., Luther, al.[and E. V.] For  κατὰ ἄνθρωπον already expresses their meaning in the preceding sentence; and the form of 1Co 15:29 seems to justify this arrangement, besides that otherwise φάγ . κ . πίωμεν , &c., would stand awkwardly insulated.
	 φάγ  .   κ  .   πίωμεν  … ] In Isa. the words represent the recklessness of those who utterly disregard the call of God to weeping and mourning, and feast while their time lasts. Wetst. has collected very numerous parallels from the classics. The most striking perhaps is Herod. ii. 78.