 29. ]  ἐπεί resumes the main argument, which has been interrupted by the explanation since 1Co 15:23 of ἕκαστος ἐν τῷ ἰδίῳ τάγματι . After it is an ellipsis of ‘if it be as the adversaries suppose.’
	 τί ποιήσουσιν ] There is in these words a tacit reprehension of the practice about to be mentioned, which it is hardly possible altogether to miss. Both by the third person, and by the art. before βαπτ ., he indirectly separates himself and those to whom he is writing from participation in or approval of the practice: the meaning being,  what will become of ‘what account can they give of their practice?’
	 οἱ βαπτιζόμενοι  ] those who are in the habit of being baptized not οἱ βαπτισθέντες . The distinction is important as affecting the interpretation. See below.
	 ὑπὲρ τῶν νεκρῶν  ] on behalf of the dead ; viz.  the same νεκροί who are spoken of in the next clause and throughout the chapter as the subjects of ἀνάστασις not νεκροί in any figurative sense.  τῶν νεκρ ., the art. marking the particular dead persons on behalf of whom the act took place. Before we pass to the exegesis, it will be well to go through the next question εἰ ὅλως κ . τ . λ .  If dead men are not raised at all, why do they trouble themselves ( τί καί as in reff.)  to be baptized for them ?
	Thus much being said as to the plain meaning of the words used, there can be no doubt as to their interpretation. The  only legitimate reference is, to a practice, not otherwise known to us, not mentioned here with any approval by the Apostle, not generally prevalent (  οἱ βαπτ .), but in use by some, of  survivors allowing themselves to be baptized on behalf of (believing?)  friends who had died without baptism . With the subsequent similar practices of the Cerinthians (Epiph [69] Hær. xxviii. § 6, p. 114) and Marcionites (Chrys., Tertull. de resurr. 48, vol. ii. p. 864, adv. Marc [70] 1 Corinthians 15:10 , p. 494 f.) this may or may not have been connected. All we clearly see from the text, is that it unquestionably  did exist .
	 [69] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	 [70] Marcus Monachus, 390
	With regard to the other interpretations, Bengel well says, “Tanta est interpretationum varietas, ut is, qui non dicam varietates ipsas, sed varietatum catalogos colligere velit,  dissertationem scripturus sit.” I will give a few of them, mostly in the words of their authors: Chrys. (Hom. xl. p. 379): ὑπὲρ τῶν νεκρῶν , τουτέστι τῶν σωμάτων . καὶ γὰρ ἐπὶ τούτῳ βαπτίζῃ , τῇ τοῦ νεκροῦ σώματος ἀναστάσει , πιστεύων ὅτι (Migne reads τὴν τ . ν . σ . ἀνάστασιν πιστ ., ὅτι ) οὐκέτι μένει νεκρόν . καὶ σὺ μὲν διὰ τῶν ῥημάτων λέγεις νεκρῶν ἀνάστασιν · ὁ δὲ ἱερεύς , ὥσπερ ἐν εἰκόνι τινὶ .… δείκνυσί σοι .… διὰ τοῦ ὕδατος · τὸ γὰρ βαπτίζεσθαι κ . καταδύεσθαι , εἶτα ἀνανεύειν , τῆς εἰς ᾅδου καταβάσεως ἐστὶ σύμβολον κ . τῆς ἐκεῖθεν ἀνόδου . διὸ κ . τάφον τὸ βάπτισμα ὁ Π . καλεῖ ( Rom 6:4 ), Theophyl.: φησὶν οὖν , ὅτι οἱ πιστεύσαντες ὅτι ἔσται ἀνάστασις νεκρῶν σωμάτων , καὶ βαπτισθέντες ἐπὶ τοιαύταις ἐλπίσι , τί ποιήσουσιν ἀπατηθέντες ; τί δὲ ὅλως καὶ βαπτίζονται ἄνθρωποι ὑπὲρ ἀναστάσεως , τουτέστιν ἐπὶ προσδοκίᾳ ἀναστάσεως , εἰ ν οὐκ ἐγ .; and so in the main, Pelag., Œcum., Phot [71] , Corn.-a-Lap., Wetst. Theodoret: ὁ βαπτιζόμενός , φησι , τῷ δεσπότῃ συνθάπτεται , ἵνα τοῦ θανάτου κοινωνήσας καὶ τῆς ἀναστάσεως γένηται κοινωνός · εἰ δὲ νεκρόν ἐστι τὸ σῶμα , καὶ οὐκ ἀνίσταται , τί δήποτε καὶ βαπτίζεται ; and so Castal., al. All these senses would require τί ποιήσετε βαπτισθέντες , to say nothing of the impossibility of thus understanding ὑπὲρ τῶν νεκρῶν . Estius explains ὑπὲρ τῶν νεκρ . as = ‘  jamjam morituri ,’ and Calvin justifies this, ‘baptizari pro mortuis erit sic baptizari  ut mortuis non vivis prosit .’ So too Epiph [72] (l. c.), of catechumens who πρὸ τῆς τελευτῆς λουτροῦ καταξιοῦνται : and Bengel: “baptizantur super mortuis ii, qui mox post baptismum ad mortuos aggregabuntur.” But against this ὑπὲρ  τῶν νεκρῶν is decisive, as is  ὑπέρ against ‘  over the dead,’ i.e. over their sepulchres (Luth., al.): this local sense of ὑπέρ not being found in the N. T. Le Clerc, Hammond, Olsh., al., explain ὑπ . τ . νεκρ ., ‘  to fill the place of the dead .’ But, as Meyer observes, such an idea can hardly be gathered from the words, but would want explaining in the context; and besides, the  question would thus be irrelevant , because, the place of the dead being supplied by their successors, it would be  no matter to them, whether the dead themselves rose or not : whereas now, the benefits of baptism being supposed to be conveyed to the  dead by the baptism of his substitute, the  proceeding would be stultified , if the dead could never rise to claim those benefits.
	 [71] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	 [72] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	This, the only justifiable rendering, is adopted by Ambrose, and by Anselm, Erasmus, Grotius, al., and recently by Billroth, Rückert, Meyer, De Wette, al. The ordinary objection to it is, that thus the Apostle would be giving his sanction to a superstitious usage, or at all events mentioning it without reprobation. But this is easily answered, by remembering that if the above view of τί ποιήσουσιν is correct, he does  not mention it without a slur on it; and more completely still, as Rückert (in Meyer), “usurpari ab eo morem, qui ceteroqui displiceret, ad errorem, in quo impugnando versabatur, radicitus evellendum; ipsius autem reprehendendi aliud tempus expectari.” See a multitude of other interpretations in Pool’s Synopsis and in Stanley’s note. His concluding remarks are worth quoting: “On the whole, therefore, this explanation of the passage (  that given above ) may be safely accepted, (1) as exhibiting a curious relic of primitive superstition, which, after having, as the words imply (?), prevailed generally in the apostolical church, gradually dwindled away till it was only to be found in some obscure sects, where it lost its original significance: (2) as containing an example of the Apostle’s mode of dealing with a practice, with which he could have no real sympathy; not condemning or ridiculing it, but appealing to it as an expression, however distorted, of their better feelings.”