 10.  χάρ  .   δὲ θεοῦ ] “With the humiliating conviction of his own unworthiness is united the consciousness of that higher Power which worked on and in him, and this introduces his chastened self-consciousness of the extent and success of his apostolic labours.” De Wette. The position of χάριτι δὲ θεοῦ , and the repetition of ἡ χάρις αὐτοῦ afterwards, shew the emphatic prominence which he assigns to the divine Grace.
	 ὅ εἰμι ] viz. in my office and its results. The church has admirably connected this passage, as Epistle for the 11th Sunday after Trinity, with that other speech of a Pharisee, Luke 18:11 , ὁ θεός , εὐχαριστῶ σοι ὅτι οὐκ εἰμὶ ὥσπερ οἱ λοιποὶ τῶν ἀνθρώπων : see note there.
	 ἡ εἰς ἐμέ ]  which was (manifested)  towards me : see ref. and Romans 8:18 .
	 ἀλλά opposed to κενὴ ἐγ ., ‘  by means of God’s grace ’ being understood after ἀλλά , as afterwards explained.
	 περισσότερον ] adverbial, as in reff.: or perhaps neut. accus. governed by ἐκοπίασα .
	 αὐτῶν πάντων ] either, ‘  than any of them ,’ or ‘  than they all ,’ scil.  together . Meyer prefers the latter, on account of τοῖς ἀπ . πᾶσιν , 1 Corinthians 15:7 . But it seems hardly necessary, and introduces an element of apparent exaggeration.
	 ἐκοπίασα ] Spoken of his apostolic work, in all its branches; see reff., especially Phil.
	 οὐκ ἐγὼ δέ ] explanatory, to avoid misapprehension: it had been implied (see above) in the ἀλλά :  not I, however, but the Grace of God with me (see var. readd.): scil. ἐκοπίασεν κ . τ . λ . That is, the Grace of God worked with him in so overwhelming a measure, compared to his own working, that it was no longer the work of himself but of divine Grace. Augustine, de Grat. et Lib. Arb. § 5 (12), vol. x. p. 889, hardly expresses this: “Non ego autem, i.e. non solus, sed gratia Dei mecum: ac per hoc nec gratia Dei sola, nec ipse solus, sed gratia Dei cum illo:” for he overlooks the  entire preponderance of Grace, which Paul asserts, even to the exclusion of his own action in the matter. The right view of this preponderance of Grace prevents the misunderstanding of the words which has led to the insertion of the article, ἡ σὺν ἐμοί , whereby Grace becomes absolutely the  sole agent , which is contrary to fact. On the coagency of the human will with divine Grace, but in subordination, see Mat 10:20 ; 2 Corinthians 5:20 ; 2 Corinthians 6:1 , and ch. 1 Corinthians 3:9 , note.