 23 .]  But in this universal Resurrection , ALL SHALL NOT HOLD THE SAME RANK. Chrys. rightly, εἶτα , ἵνα μὴ τὴν ζωοποίησιν κοινὴν ἀκούδας , καὶ τοὺς ἁμαρτωλοὺς νομίσῃς σώζεσθαι , ἐπήγαγεν  ἕκαστος δὲ κ . τ . λ . Hom. xxxix. p. 367.
	 τάγμα is not  order of priority , but  rank , or ‘  troop in an army ,’ so Plut., Otho, p. 1072 (Wetst.): λεγεῶνες , οὕτω γὰρ τὰ  τάγματα Ῥωμαῖοι καλοῦσιν ἐπίκλησιν . The three ranks are  mentioned in order of priority , but this does not constitute their distinctive character: Christ is the ἀπαρχή this is His ἴδιον τάγμα , see Colossians 1:18 : οἱ τοῦ χριστοῦ follow at His coming, who are the φύραμα (as understood by the context, and implied by ἀπαρχή ), in the proper and worthiest sense, made like unto Him and partaking of His glory; then (after how long or how short a time is not declared, and seems to have formed no part of the revelations to Paul, but was afterwards revealed, see Revelation 20:4-6 ; compare also 1Th 4:15-17 ) shall come THE END, viz. the resurrection of the rest of the dead, here veiled over by the general term τὸ τέλος , that resurrection not being in this argument specially treated, but only that of Christians.  The key to the understanding of this passage is to be found in the prophecy of our Lord, Matthew 24:25 , but especially in the latter chapter. The resurrection and judgment of οἱ τοῦ χριστοῦ forming the subject of 1Co 15:1-30 there, and τὸ τέλος , the great final gathering of πάντα τὰ ἔθνη , of 1 Corinthians 15:31-46 .
	 ἀπαρχή , therefore necessarily  the first  τάγμα : and hence the word stands first.
	 οἱ τοῦ χρ .] = οἱ νεκροὶ ἐν χριστῷ 1 Thessalonians 4:16 . No mention occurs here of any judgment of these his ἴδιοι δοῦλοι , as in Matthew 25:0 , for it does not belong to the present subject.
	 ἐν τῇ παρ  .   αὐτ .] ἐν as  forming part of, involved in , His appearing, which, as the great event of the time, includes their resurrection in it. It ought to be needless to remind the student of the distinction between this παρουσία and the final judgment; it is here peculiarly important to bear it in mind.