 24.  εἶτα ] then, next in succession, introducing the third τάγμα , see above.
	 τὸ τέλος ]  the end κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν : not the end  of the resurrection , as Meyer, after Theodoret, Œcum., Bengel, al.: nor,  of this present world , as Chrys., al., which properly happens at the παρουσία : nor exactly,  of the Kingdom of Christ , as Grot. and Billroth: but  generally , THE END, when all shall be accomplished, the bringing in and fulness of the Kingdom by the subjugation of the last enemy, the whole course of [the] mediatorial work of Christ, the salvation of the elect; the time indicated by Matthew 25:0 ult.: καὶ ἀπελεύσονται οὗτοι εἰς κόλασιν αἰώνιον , οἱ δὲ δίκαιοι εἰς ζωὴν αἰώνιον .
	 ὅταν παραδιδοῖ ]  when He (Christ)  gives up (the pres., for that which is certainly attached to the event as its accompaniment ὅταν indicating the uncertainty of the time when, and the verb being probably subjunctive: see Winer, Moulton’s Trans, p. 360, note 2),  the Kingdom to God, and the Father (reff.: to Him who is God and His Father)
	Then the rest of the section as far as 1 Corinthians 15:28 , is in explanation of the giving up the kingdom. And it rests on this weighty verity: the KINGDOM FO CHRIST  over this world , in its beginning, its furtherance, and its completion, has one great end, THE GLORIFICATION OF THE FATHER BY THE SON.  Therefore , when it shall be fully established, every enemy overcome, every thing subjected to Him, He will, not, reign over it and abide its King, but DELIVER IT UP TO THE FATHER. Hence as in 1 Corinthians 15:25 , His reign will endure, not, like that of earthly kings, WHEN He shall have put all enemies under His feet, but only TILL He shall have, &c., and then will be absorbed in the all-pervading majesty of Him for whose glory it was from first to last carried onward. It may be observed that the whole of this respects the mediatorial work and kingdom: the work of redemption, and that Lordship over dead and living, for which Christ both died and rose. Consequently nothing is here said which can affect either (1) His coequality and coeternity with the Father in the Godhead, which is prior to and independent of this mediatorial work, and is not limited to the mediatorial kingdom; or (2) the eternity of His Humanity: for that Humanity ever was and is subordinate to the Father; and it by no means follows that when the mediatorial kingdom shall be given up to the Father, the Humanity, in which that kingdom was won, shall be put off: nay, the very fact of Christ in the body being the first-fruits of the resurrection, proves that His body, as ours, will endure for ever: as the truth that our humanity, even in glory, can only subsist before God  by virtue of His Humanity, makes it plain that He will be VERY MAN to all eternity.
	 τὴν βασιλείαν ] That kingdom, which in its fullest sense is then  first His. At this very time of τὸ τέλος , Matthew 25:34 , He first calls Himself by the title of  ὁ βασιλεύς . The name will no sooner be won, than laid at the feet of the Father, thus completing by the last great act of Redemption the obedience which He manifested in his Incarnation, and in his Death.
	 ὅταν καταργήσῃ ] (aor.) when He shall have brought to nought, &c.: see above.
	 πᾶς  .   ἀρχ . κ . τ . λ .] not  only , as Meyer, &c.,  hostile power and government, but as the  context necessitates , ALL power. Christ being manifested as universal King,  every power co-ordinate with His must come under the category of  hostile : all  kings shall submit to Him: the  kingdoms of the world shall become the kingdoms of the Lord and of His Christ: and see the similar expressions Ephesians 1:21 , where speaking proleptically, the Apostle clearly indicates that  legitimate authorities, all the powers that be, are included. Compare by all means Revelation 11:15 .