 1, 2 .]  δέ transitional.
	 γνωρίζω , not, as most Commentators, aft. Œc [65] , οἷον ὑπομιμνήσκω , nor as Rück., ‘  I direct your attention to ’ (both which meanings are inadmissible, from the usage of the word: see reff.), but as E. V.  I declare : i.e. ‘  declare anew :’ not without some intimation of surprise and reproach to them.
	 [65] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 τὸ εὐαγγ .]  the (whole) Gospel: not merely the Death and Resurrection of Christ, which were  ἐν πρώτοις parts of it; the reproach still continues; q. d. ‘I am constrained to begin again, and declare to you the whole gospel which I preached to you.’
	 ὃ καὶ παρ .] The thrice repeated καί indicates a climax:  which ye also received (see especially ref. John),  in which moreover ye stand, by means of which ye are even being saved (in the course of salvation).
	 τίνι λόγ .]  if ye hold fast, with what discourse (not, as Moulton supposes me to interpret (in his Winer, Gr. Gr. p. 211, note 2,) =  the discourse with which )  I preached to you : the clause τίνι λόγ . being prefixed for emphasis’ sake.  λόγος , of the  import , not the  grounds of his preaching: for  of this he reminds them below,  not of the arguments . Some Commentators take τίνι λόγῳ κ . τ . λ . as a mere epexegesis of εὐαγγέλιον , ‘  the gospel.…, with what discourse I preached to you ,’ as οἶδά σε , τίς εἶ . But as Meyer has remarked, in that case, (1) σώζεσθε and εἰ κατέχετε being altogether severed from one another, εἰ κατέχετε becomes the conditional clause to γνωρίζω ὑμῖν , with which it has no logical connexion: (2) εἰ κατέχετε would be inconsistent with ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἑστήκατε , which would thus be an  absolute assertion : (3) the words ἐκτὸς εἰ μὴ εἰκῆ ἐπιστ . would have to be referred as a second conditional clause to εἰ κατέχετε (see below).
	 ἐκτὸς εἰ μὴ εἰκῆ ἐπιστ .] The only chance, if you hold fast what I have taught you, of your missing salvation, is the hardly supposable one, that  your   faith is vain , and the gospel a fable; see 1 Corinthians 15:14 , of which this is an anticipation:  unless (perchance)  ye believed (not as E. V. ‘  have believed ,’ which confuses the idea: it is, ‘  became believers ,’ see reff.)  in vain ( εἰς κενόν , as 1Co 15:14 ). So Chrys., who remarks: νῦν μὲν ὑπεσταλμένως αὐτό φησι , προϊὼν δὲ καὶ διαθερμαινόμενος · γυμνῇ λοιπὸν τῇ κεφαλῇ βοᾷ καὶ λέγει Εἰ δὲ χριστὸς οὐκ ἐγήγερται , κ . τ . λ ., 1 Corinthians 15:14 . Hom. xxxviii. p. 352. This explanation of the words appears to me the only tenable one. Meyer, and in the main De W., understand them of a  vain and dead faith , which the Apostle will not suppose them to have. But surely if the previously expressed condition of κατέχετε were fulfilled, their faith  could not be vain or dead ; and again the  aorist is against this interpretation:  unless ye became believers in vain , not, ‘  unless your faith has been a vain one .’ A still further reason is, the parallelism of εἰκῆ ἐπιστεύσατε here and οὕτως ἐπιστεύσατε , 1 Corinthians 15:11 ; leading to the inference that εἰκῆ here relates, not to the subjective insufficiency of their faith, but to the (hypothetical) objective nullity of that on which their faith was founded. Œc [66] , Theophyl., Theodoret, Luther, Calv., Estius, and De W. connect ἐκτὸς εἰ μή (see above) as a second conditional clause to εἰ κατέχετε , supplying between, κατέχετε δὲ πάντως (Theophyl.): but this is arbitrary and unnatural.
	 [66] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?