 12 .] introduces the argument for the resurrection, by referring to its denial among a portion of the Corinthian church.
	 δέ belongs to the whole question, and is opposed to οὕτως κηρ . and οὕτ . ἐπιστ . of the foregoing verse.
	The position of χριστός before the verb gives it the leading emphasis, as an  example of that which is denied by some among you:  But if CHRIST  is preached [not subjunctive,  be preached : he is arguing from a matter of fact, not from a mere hypothesis]  that He is risen from the dead (if an instance of such resurrection is a fact announced in our preaching),  how say some among you (how comes it to pass that some say)  that a resurrection of the dead does not exist ( οὐκ ἔστ . as 1Co 15:13 )? If the  species be  conceded , how is it that some among you  deny the  genus ?
	 τινες ] It is an interesting question, WHO  these τινες  were ; and one which can only be answered by the indications which the argument in this chapter furnishes. (1)  Were they Sadducees ? If so, the Apostle would hardly have begun his argument with the fact of the Resurrection of Jesus. And yet we must remember that he is arguing not  with the deniers , but with those who being as yet sound, were liable to be misled by them. But the opposition between Sadduceism and Christianity was so complete, that we have little reason to think that any leaven of the Sadducees ever found its way into the church. (2)  Were they Epicureans ? Probably not, for two reasons: ( α ) the Epicurean maxim, “Let us eat and drink,” &c., is represented as a legitimate  consequence ) of adopting their denial of the resurrection, not as an accompaniment of, much less as the ground of it: and ( β ) had the Epicurean element entered to any extent into the Corinthian church, we certainly should have had more notice of its exceedingly antichristian tenets. It is possible that the deniers may have been, or been in danger of being,  corrupted by mixture with Epicureans  without , from the warning of 1 Corinthians 15:33 . (3)  Were they Jews ? If not Sadducees, hardly Jews at all, or Judaizers: a strong tenet of Pharisaism was  this very one of the Resurrection, see Acts 23:6 ; and we know of no tendency of Essenism which should produce such a denial. (4) They must then have been  Gentile believers , inheriting the unwillingness of the Greek mind to receive that of which a full account could not be given, see 1 Corinthians 15:35-36 ; and probably of a philosophical and cavilling turn. Meyer argues, from the antimaterialistic turn of the Apostle’s counter-arguments, 1 Corinthians 15:35 ff., that the objections were antimaterialistic also: De W. infers the very opposite, which certainly seems to me more probable.
	No trace whatever is found in the argument of an  allegorizing character in the opponents, as was that of Hymenæus and Philetus, who maintained that the resurrection was past already, 2 Timothy 2:17-18 , as Olsh. after Grot. supposes.
	Whether the Apostle regarded the resurrection of the body as inseparably bound up with a future existence of the soul, does not very clearly appear in this chapter. From the use of the word ἀπώλοντο , 1 Corinthians 15:18 , which must refer, not to annihilation, but to  perdition , it would seem that he admitted an independent existence of the soul; as also from Philippians 1:23 . But from 1 Corinthians 15:32 , εἰ νεκροὶ οὐκ ἐγείρονται , φάγωμεν κ . πίωμεν , αὔριον γὰρ ἀποθνήσκομεν , it would seem that the Apostle regarded the denial of the resurrection as involving that of the future state and judgment.
	On the question, to which of the (supposed) Corinthian parties the opponents belonged, I have nothing to say, not recognizing the divisions into the Pauline, Apollonian, Petrine, and Christine parties as having any historical foundation; see note on ch. 1 Corinthians 1:12 .