 And he had  (κα εχων). This use of the participle in place of ειχεν (imperfect) is like that in Revelation 4:7; Revelation 12:2; Revelation 19:12; Revelation 21:12; Revelation 21:14, a Semitic idiom (Charles), or as if καταβαινων (nominative) had preceded in place of καταβαινοντα.A little book  (βιβλαριδιον). A diminutive of βιβλαριον (papyri), itself a diminutive of βιβλιον (Revelation 5:1) and perhaps in contrast with it, a rare form in Hermas and Revelation 10:2; Revelation 10:9; Revelation 10:10. In Revelation 10:8 Tischendorf reads βιβλιδαριον, diminutive of βιβλιδιον (Aristophanes) instead of βιβλιον (Westcott and Hort). The contents of this little book are found in Revelation 11:1-13.Open  (ηνεωιγμενον). See Ezekiel 2:9. Perfect (triple reduplication) passive participle of ανοιγω, in contrast to the closed book in Revelation 5:1. There also we have επ (upon) την δεξιαν (the right hand), for it was a large roll, but here the little open roll is held in the hand (εν τη χειρ), apparently the left hand (verse Revelation 10:5).He set  (εθηκεν). First aorist active indicative of τιθημ. The size of the angel is colossal, for he bestrides both land and sea. Apparently there is no special point in the right foot (τον ποδα τον δεξιον) being on the sea (επ της θαλασσης) and the left (τον ευωνυμον) upon the land (επ της γης). It makes a bold and graphic picture.As a lion roareth  (ωσπερ λεων μυκατα). Only instance of ωσπερ in the Apocalypse, but ως in the same sense several times. Present middle indicative of μυκαομα, an old onomatopoetic word from μυ or μοο (the sound which a cow utters), common for the lowing and bellowing of cattle, Latin mugire, but in Theocritus for the roaring of a lion as here, though in 1 Peter 5:8 we have ωρυομα. Homer uses μυκαομα for the clangour of the shield and Aristophanes for thunder. It occurs here alone in the N.T. It does not mean that what the angel said was unintelligible, only loud. Cf. Revelation 1:10; Revelation 5:2; Revelation 5:12; Revelation 6:10; Revelation 7:2; Revelation 7:10, etc. 