− 18.Paul took it grievously. It may be that at the first Paul neglected, and did not greatly regard the crying of the maid, because he hoped that there would be no account made thereof, and had rather that it should vanish away of itself. But the continual repetition doth at length make him weary; because, if he had any long dissembled, Satan would have waxed more and more insolent through his silence and patience. Secondly, he ought not to have broken out into this prohibition rashly, until he knew for a certainty that he was furnished with the power of God. For Paul’s commandment − (196) had been foolish and vain without the commandment of God. And this must be noted, lest any man condemn Paul of too great hastiness, because he encountered so valiantly with the unclean spirit. For he did not conceive any grief or indignation, save only that he saw that the stability of Satan would increase, unless he did betimes prevent it; neither did he attempt any thing without the motion of the Spirit; neither did he enter the conflict until he was armed with power from heaven. Notwithstanding, he seemeth to be contrary to himself, seeing that he saith elsewhere that he rejoiceth upon what occasion soever he see the gospel preached, ( Philippians 1:18,) even by wicked men, and such as did study of set purpose to bring him in contempt. I answer, that he had another more apt reason for himself in this place; − (197) because all men would have thought that the spirit of the maid had played with Paul; − (198) so that by that means the doctrine of the gospel should not only have come in [into] suspicion, but should also have come into great contempt. − (199) And to this end was it that Christ also did command the devil to hold his peace, ( Mark 1:25,) whereas notwithstanding he suffered his name to be extolled by unmeet and unworthy men, ( Luke 4:35.) − I command thee. We must note the form of speech; for as the miracle was about to have a double use, namely, that the power of Christ might be known; secondly, that he might declare that he had no fellowship with Satan’s jugglings; so Paul, in giving the authority and power to Christ alone, doth declare that he is only a minister; that done, he doth openly set Christ against the devil, − (200) to the end that, by the conflict, all men may see that they be deadly enemies. For it was profitable that many should be awaked who had been given to such gross seducing, that being well purged, they might come to the true faith. − (196) − “ Impreccatio,” impreccation, anathema. (197) − “ Hic diversam rationem,” that here there was a different reason. (198) − “ Colludere puellae daemonum cum Paulo,” that the demon of the damsel was in collision with Paul. (199) − “ Sed recidisset in merum ludibrium,” but became a mere laughing-stock. (200) − “ Opponit Christum daemoni,” he opposes Christ to the demon. 