Rumors of wars. Wyc., opinions of battles. Such as would be a cause of terror to the Hebrew Christians; as the three threats of war against the Jews by Caligula, Claudius, and Nero. There were serious disturbances at Alexandria, A. D. 38, in which the Jews were the especial objects of persecution; at Seleucia about the same time, in which more than fifty thousand Jews were killed; and at Jamnia, near Joppa. Troubled [θροεισθε] . Qroew is, literally, to cry aloud. Earthquakes. Between the prophecy and the destruction of Jerusalem (A. D. 70) occurred : A great earthquake in Crete, A. D. 46 or 47 at Rome, on the day on which Nero entered his majority, A. D 51 at Apameia, in Phrygia, A. D. 53; "on account of which," says Tacitus, "they were exempted from tribute for five years :" at Laodicea, in Phrygia, A. D 60 in Campania, A. D. 63, by which, according to Tacitus, the city of Pompeii was largely destroyed. Famines. During the reign of Claudius, A. D. 41 - 54, four famines are recorded : One at Rome, A. D. 41, 42; one in Judaea, A. D. 44; one in Greece, A. D. 50; and again at Rome, A. D. 52, when the people rose in rebellion and threatened the life of the emperor. Tacitus says that it was accompanied by frequent earthquakes, which levelled houses. The famine in Judaea was probably the one prophesied by Agabus, Acts 11:28. Of the year 65 A. D., Tacitus says : "This year, disgraced by so many deeds of horror, was further distinguished by the gods with storms and sicknesses. Campania was devastated by a hurricane which overthrew buildings, trees, and the fruits of the soil in every direction, even to the gates of the city, within which a pestilence thinned all ranks of the population, with no atmospheric disturbance that the eye could trace. The houses were choked with dead, the roads with funerals : neither sex nor age escaped. Slaves and freemen perished equally amid the wailings of their wives and children, who were often hurried to the pyre by which they had sat in tears, and consumed together with them. The deaths of knights and senators, promiscuous as they were, deserved the less to be lamented, inasmuch as, falling by the common lot of mortality, they seemed to anticipate the prince 's cruelty" (" Annals, " 16, 10 - 13).