 38.   οὐκ ἄρα σὺ εἶ ]  Thou art not then, as I believed .… The E. V., after the Vulg., ‘  art not thou ’ … (‘nonne tu es …’) would require ἆρ ʼ οὐ or οὔκουν , Winer, edn. 6, § 57. 3. See also Luke 17:17 ; John 18:37 .
	 Αἰγύπτιος ] The inference of the tribune was not, as in Bengel, ‘Græce loquitur: ergo est Ægyptius;’ but the very contrary to this. His being able to speak Greek is a proof to Lysias that he is  not that Egyptian. This Egyptian is mentioned by Josephus, Antt. xx. 8. 6, ἀφικνεῖται δέ τις ἐξ Αἰγύπτου κατὰ τοῦτον τὸν καιρὸν εἰς τὰ Ἱεροσόλυμα , προφήτης εἶναι λέγων , καὶ συμβουλεύων τῷ δημοτικῷ πλήθει σὺν αὐτῷ πρὸς ὄρος τὸ προσαγορευόμενον Ἐλαιῶν ἔρχεσθαι , ὃ καὶ τῆς πόλεως ἄντικρυς κείμενον ἀπέχει στάδια πέντε · θέλειν γάρ , ἔφασκεν , αὐτοῖς ἐκεῖθεν ἐπιδεῖξαι , ὡς κελεύσαντος αὐτοῦ πίπτοι τὰ τῶν Ἱεροσολύμων τείχη , δι ʼ ὧν τὴν εἴσοδον αὐτοῖς παρέξειν ἐπηγγέλλετο . Φῆλιξ δὲ ὡς ἐπύθετο ταῦτα , κελεύει τοὺς στρατιώτας ἀναλαβεῖν τὰ ὅπλα , καὶ … προσβάλλει τοῖς περὶ τὸν Αἰγύπτιον · καὶ τετρακοσίους μὲν αὐτῶν ἀνεῖλε , διακοσίους δὲ ζῶντας ἔλαβεν . ὁ δὲ Αἰγύπτιος αὐτὸς διαδράσας ἐκ τῆς μάχης ἀφανὴς ἐγένετο . But in B. J. ii. 13. 5, he says of the same person, περὶ  τρισμυρίους ἀθροίζει τῶν ἠπατημένων , περιαγαγὼν δὲ αὐτοὺς ἐκ τῆς ἐρημίας εἰς τὸ Ἐλαιῶν καλ . ὄρ . κ . τ . λ … ὥστε συμβολῆς γενομένης … διαφθαρῆναι κ . ζωγρηθῆναι  πλείστους τῶν σὺν αὐτῷ . It is obvious that the  numerical accounts in Jos. are inconsistent with our text, and with  one another . This latter being the case, we may well leave them out of the question. At different times of his rebellion, his number of followers would be variously estimated; and the tribune would naturally take it as he himself or his informant had known it, at some one period. That this is so, we may see by noticing that our narrative speaks of his  leading out , whereas Josephus’s numbers are those whom he  brought back from the wilderness against Jerusalem, by which time his band would have augmented considerably.
	 τοὺς τετρ  .] the four thousand , the matter being one of notoriety.
	 σικαρίων ] From  sica , a dagger; they are described by Jos. B. J. ii. 13. 3, ἕτερον εἶδος λῃστῶν ἐν Ἱεροσολύμοις ὑπεφύετο , οἱ καλούμενοι  σικάριοι , μεθ ʼ ἡμέραν καὶ ἐν μέσῃ τῇ πόλει φονεύοντες ἀνθρώπους · μάλιστα δὲ ἐν ταῖς ἑορταῖς μισγόμενοι τῷ πλήθει , καὶ ταῖς ἐσθήσεσιν ὑποκρύπτοντες μικρὰ ξιφίδια , τούτοις ἔνυττον τοὺς διαφόρους … πρῶτος μὲν οὖν ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν Ἰωνάθης ὁ ἀρχιερεὺς ἀποσφάζεται · μετὰ δὲ αὐτὸν καθ ʼ ἡμέραν ἀνῃροῦντο πολλοί … The art. is generic.