 Be patient therefore  (μακροθυμησατε ουν). A direct corollary (ουν, therefore) from the coming judgment on the wicked rich (James 5:1-6). First aorist (constative) active imperative of μακροθυμεω, late compound (Plutarch, LXX) from μακροθυμος (μακροσ, θυμος, of long spirit, not losing heart), as in Matthew 18:26. The appeal is to the oppressed brethren. Catch your wind for a long race (long-tempered as opposed to short-tempered). See already the exhortation to patience (υπομονη) in James 1:3; James 1:12 and repeated in James 5:11. They will need both submission (υπομενω James 5:11) and steadfastness (μακροθυμια James 5:10).Until the coming of the Lord  (εως της παρουσιας). The second coming of Christ he means, the regular phrase here and in verse James 5:8 for that idea (Matthew 24:3; Matthew 24:37; Matthew 24:39; 1 Thessalonians 2:19, etc.).The husbandman  (ο γεωργος). The worker in the ground (γη, εργω) as in Matthew 21:33.Waiteth for  (εκδεχετα). Present middle indicative of εκδεχομα, old verb for eager expectation as in Acts 17:16.Precious  (τιμιον). Old adjective from τιμη (honor, price), dear to the farmer because of his toil for it. See 1 Peter 1:19.Being patient over it  (μακροθυμων επ' αυτω). Present active participle of μακροθυμεω just used in the exhortation, picturing the farmer longing and hoping over his precious crop (cf. Luke 18:7 of God).Until it receive  (εως λαβη). Temporal clause of the future with εως and the second aorist active subjunctive of λαμβανω, vividly describing the farmer's hopes and patience.The early and latter rain  (προιμον κα οψιμον). The word for rain (υετον Acts 14:17) is absent from the best MSS. The adjective προιμος (from πρω, early) occurs here only in N.T., though old in the form προιμος and πρωις. See Deuteronomy 11:14; Jeremiah 5:24, etc. for these terms for the early rain in October or November for the germination of the grain, and the latter rain (οψιμον, from οψε, late, here only in N.T.) in April and May for maturing the grain. 