Acts 17:23.  For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions.  This should be rendered, ‘and beheld the things that you worship.’ It does not refer to their devotions, or acts of worship, but to their   temples, statues of divinities, shrines, and the like.
	 TO THE UNKNOWN GOD.  The more accurate translation would be, ‘To an Unknown God.’ Philostratus, who wrote A.D. 244, in his life of Apollonius (quoted by Gloag), says, alluding to the unusual reverential spirit of the Athenians: ‘It is more discreet to speak well of all the gods,  especially at Athens,  where there are erected altars of unknown gods.’ It seems that in the city there were several altars set up in different situations, each with the inscription, ‘To an Unknown God.’ The historical origin of these mysterious shrines cannot be determined. Some suppose they were very ancient; and at length it had been forgotten to whom originally they were dedicated, and that in some religious restoration the words in question had been engraved on the ancient stone. Others have suggested they were set up in some time either of public rejoicing or great calamity, and the civic authorities being uncertain as to the especial deity they had to propitiate Zeus or Poseidon, Athene or Ares erected these altars ‘to the   Unknown.’ Diogenes Laertius relates how, when once the Athenians were afflicted with a pestilence, Epimenides stayed the plague by sending white and black sheep from the Areopagus, and then sacrificing them on the various spots in the city where they lay down, to the unknown God who sent the pestilence. Therefore, this writer added, there are at Athens  nameless altars.
	 Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.  Here the more ancient MSS. read neuter forms, ὃ . . . τοῡτο  ,  instead of the masculine forms, ὃν . . . τοῡτον ;   these would then be rendered, ‘What therefore ye worship ignorantly . . . this I declare unto you.’ The Athenians, Paul saw, evidently recognised something Divine which ought to be adored  outside  the known gods. This unknown Deity he proceeded to declare to them.
	