 18. ] The name  Πέτρος (not now first given, but prophetically bestowed by our Lord on His first interview with Simon, Joh 1:43 ) or Κηφᾶς , signifying a rock, the termination being only altered to suit the masculine appellation, denotes the  personal position of this Apostle in the building of the Church of Christ . He was the first of those  foundation-stones ( Rev 21:14 ) on which the living temple of God was built: this building itself beginning on the day of Pentecost by the laying of  three thousand living stones on this very foundation. That this is the simple and only interpretation of the words of our Lord the whole usage of the New Testament shews: in which not doctrines nor confessions, but  men , are uniformly the pillars and stones of the spiritual building. See 1 Peter 2:4-6 ; 1 Timothy 3:15 (where the pillar is not Timotheus, but the congregation of the faithful) and note: Galatians 2:9 ; Ephesians 2:20 ; Revelation 3:12 . And it is on Peter, as by divine revelation making this confession, as thus under the influence of the Holy Ghost, as standing out before the Apostles in the strength of this faith, as himself founded on the one foundation,  Ἰησοῦς χριστός  , 1Co 3:11 that the Jewish portion of the Church was built, Acts 2:1-47 ; Acts 3:1-26 ; Acts 4:1-37 ; Acts 5:1-42 , and the Gentile, Acts 10:11 . After this we hear little of him; but during this, the first building time, he is never lost sight of: see especially Acts 1:15 ; Acts 2:14 ; Acts 2:37 ; Acts 3:12 ; Acts 4:8 ; Acts 5:15 ; Acts 5:29 ; Acts 9:34 ; Acts 9:40 ; Acts 10:25-26 . We may certainly exclaim with Bengel (Gnomon, p. 117), ‘Tute hæc omnia dicuntur; nam quid hæc ad Romam?’ Nothing can be further from any legitimate interpretation of this promise, than the idea of a perpetual primacy in the successors of Peter; the very notion of  succession is precluded by the form of the comparison, which concerns the person, and  him only , so far as it involves a  direct promise. In its other and general sense, as applying to all those living stones (Peter’s own expression for members of Christ’s Church) of whom the Church should be built, it implies, as Origen (in Matt. tom. xii. 11, vol. iii. p. 525) excellently comments on it, καὶ εἴ τις λέγει τοῦτο πρὸς αὐτόν , οὐ σαρκὸς καὶ αἵματος ἀποκαλυψάντων αὐτῷ , ἀλλὰ τοῦ ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς πατρός , τεύξεται τῶν εἰρημένων , ὡς μὲν τὸ γράμμα τοῦ εὐαγγελίου λέγει , πρὸς ἐκεῖνον τὸν Πέτρον , ὡς δὲ τὸ πνεῦμα αὐτοῦ διδάσκει , πρὸς πάντα τὸν γενόμενον ὁποῖος ὁ Πέτρος ἐκεῖνος . The application of the promise to St. Peter has been elaborately impugned by Wordsw., whose note see. His zeal to appropriate πέτρα to Christ bas somewhat overshot itself. In arguing that the term can apply to none but God, he will find it difficult surely to deny all reference to a rock in the name Πέτρος . To me, it is equally difficult, nay impossible, to deny all reference, in ἐπὶ ταύτῃ τῇ πέτρᾳ , to the preceding πέτρος . Let us keep to the plain straightforward sense of Scripture, however that sense may have been misused by Rome. In this as in so many other cases we may well say, ‘Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis.’
	In the prefixing of  μου to τὴν ἐκκλησίαν , there is no mystic sense, nor solecism, as Wordsw. fancies (nor even emphasis, which is never expressed by the abbreviated enclitic form μου , but always by ἐμοῦ ): it is the very commonest arrangement. Cf. ch. Matthew 7:24 , ὅστις ἀκούει μου τ . λόγους : ib. Matthew 7:26 ; ch. Matthew 8:8 ; Matthew 17:15 : Mark 14:8 ; Luke 6:47 ; Luke 12:18 a [142] . freq.
	 [142] alii = some cursive mss.
	 ἐκκλησίαν ] This word occurs but in one place besides in the Gospels, ch. Mat 18:17 bis, and there in the same sense as here, viz.,  the congregation of the faithful: only there it is one portion of that congregation, here the whole.
	 πύλαι ᾅδου ] The  gates of Hades by a well-known oriental form of speech, = the  power of the kingdom of death . The form is still preserved when the Turkish empire is known as ‘the Ottoman Porte.’ This promise received a remarkable literal fulfilment in the person of Peter in Acts 12:6-18 , see especially Matthew 16:10 .
	The meaning of the promise is, that over the Church so built upon him who was by the strength of that confession the Rock, no adverse power should ever prevail to extinguish it.