 28. ] This declaration refers, in its full meaning, certainly  not to the transfiguration which follows , for that could in no sense (except that of being a  foretaste; cf. Peter’s own allusion to it, 2 Peter 1:17 , where he evidently treats it as such) be named ‘the Son of Man coming in His Kingdom,’ and the expression,  τινὲς  …   οὐ μὴ γ  .   θ  ., indicates a distant event, but  to the destruction of Jerusalem , and the full manifestation of the Kingdom of Christ by the annihilation of the Jewish polity; which event, in this aspect as well as in all its terrible attendant details, was a  type and  earnest of the final coming of Christ. See John 21:22 , and compare Deu 32:36 with Hebrews 10:30 . This dreadful destruction was indeed judgment beginning at the house of God. The interpretation of Meyer, &c., that our Lord referred to His  ultimate glorious παρουσία , the time of which was hidden from Himself (see Mark 13:32 ; Act 1:7 ), is self-contradictory on his own view of the Person of Christ.
	That our Lord, in His humanity in the flesh,  did not know the day and the hour, we have from His own lips: but that  not knowing it , He should have uttered a determinate and solemn prophecy of it, is utterly impossible. His  ἀμὴν λέγω ὑμῖν always introduces His solemn and authoritative revelations of divine truth. The fact is, there is a reference back in this discourse to that in ch. 10, and the  coming here spoken of is the same as that in Mat 16:23 there. Stier well remarks that this cannot be the great and ultimate coming, on account of οὐ μὴ γεύσ . θανάτου ἕως ἂν ἴδωσιν , which implies that they  should taste of death  after they had seen it, and would therefore be inapplicable to the final coming (Reden Jesu, ii. 224). This is denied by Wordsw., who substitutes for the simple sense of οὐ μὴ γεύσ . θαν . the fanciful expositions, “shall not feel its bitterness,” “shall not taste of the death of the  soul ,” and then, thus interpreting, gives the prophecy the very opposite of its plain sense: “they will not taste of death till I come:  much less will they taste of it then .” It might be difficult to account for such a curious wresting of meaning, had he not added, “the signification of ἕως ἄν here may be compared to ἕως οὗ in Matthew 1:25 .” “Latet anguis in herba.”