 13.  Καισαρείας τῆς Φ .] A town in Gaulonitis at the foot of Mount Libanus, not far from the source of the Jordan, a day’s journey from Sidon, once called Laish (Judges 18:7 ; Jdg 18:29 ) and afterwards Dan (ibid.), but in later times Paneas, or Panias, from the mountain Panium, under which it lay (Jos. Antt. xv. 10. 3. Φιλίππου Καισαρείας, ἣν Πανεάδα Φοίνικες προσαγορεύουσι , Euseb. H. E. vii. 17). The tetrarch Philip enlarged it and gave it the name of Cæsarea (Jos. Antt. xviii. 2. 1). In after times King Agrippa further enlarged it and called it Neronias in honour of the Emperor Nero (Jos. Antt. xx. 9. 4). This must not be confounded with the Cæsarea of the Acts, which was Cæsarea Stratonis, on the Mediterranean. See Acts 10:1 , and note. The following enquiry took place ἐν τῇ ὁδῷ , Mark 8:27 . St. Luke gives it without note of place, but states it to have been asked on the disciples joining our Lord, who was praying alone, Luke 9:18 .
	 τίνα λέγουσιν ]  who do men say that the Son of Man is? τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ ἀνθρ . being equivalent to με in the corresponding sentence below, Matthew 16:15 . Of those who read με in the text, some would render as if our Lord had said, ‘  Who say men that I am? the Son of Man? ’ i.e.  the Messiah? (Beza, Le Clerc, and others,) but this is inadmissible, for the answer would not then have been expressed as it is, but  affirmatively or  negatively . Equally inadmissible is Olshausen’s rendering ἐμὲ τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ ἀνθ . ( ὡς οἴδατε ) ὄντα , ‘Me, who am, as ye are aware, the Son of Man?’ an expression, Olshausen says, by which the disciples would be led to the idea of the  Son of God . But then this would destroy the simplicity of the following question,  But who say ye that I am? because it would put into their mouths the answer intended to be given. The E. V. has beyond doubt the right rendering of  this reading: and τὸν υἱ . τ . ἀνθ . is a pregnant expression, which we now know to imply the  Messiahship in the root of our human nature , and which even then was taken by the Jews as =  the Son of God , (see Luke 22:69-70 ,) which would serve as a test of the faith of the disciples, according to their understanding of it.
	 οἱ ἄνθρωποι (generic: = οἱ ὄχλοι in Luke), i.e. the σὰρξ κ . αἷμα of Matthew 16:17 , the  human opinion .