 19. ] Another personal promise to Peter, remarkably fulfilled in his being  the first to admit both Jews and Gentiles into the Church; thus using the power of the keys to open the door of salvation. As an instance of his shutting it also, witness his speech to Simon Magus, οὐκ ἔστιν σοι μερὶς οὐδὲ κλῆρος ἐν τῷ λόγῳ τούτῳ , Acts 8:21 . Those who deny the reference of Mat 16:18 to St. Peter, will find it very difficult to persuade any unbiassed Greek scholar, that the καὶ δώσω σοί , with σοι thus lying unemphatically behind the verb, is not a continuation of a previous address, but a change of address altogether.
	 ὃ ἂν δήσῃς κ . τ . λ .] This same promise is repeated in ch. Matthew 18:18 , to  all the disciples generally , and to  any two or three gathered together in Christ’s name . It was first however verified, and in a remarkable and prominent way, to Peter. Of the  binding , the case of Ananias and Sapphira may serve as an eminent example: of the  loosing , the ὃ ἔχω , τοῦτό σοι δίδωμι , to the lame man at the Beautiful gate of the Temple. But strictly considered, the binding and loosing belong to the  power of legislation in the Church committed to the Apostles, in accordance with the Jewish way of using the words אסר and התיר for  prohibuit and  licitum fecit . They cannot relate to the  remission and retention of sins , for (as Meyer observes) though  λύειν ἁμαρτίας certainly appears (reff. LXX) to mean  to forgive sins ,  δέειν ἁμαρτ . for  retaining them would be altogether without example, and, I may add, would bear no meaning in the interpretation: it is  not the sin , but the  sinner , that is  bound , ἔνοχος αἰωνίου ἁμαρτήματος ( Mar 3:29 ). Nor can the ancient custom of fastening doors by means of cord be alluded to; for the expressions,  ὃ ἄν ,  ὃ ἐάν , clearly indicate  something bound and  something loosed , and not merely the power of the keys just conferred. The meaning in John 20:23 , though an expansion of this in one particular direction (see note there), is not to be confounded with this.