If therefore ye have not been faithful,.... This is the application of the above proverbial expressions, and seems to be directed to the disciples of Christ, though not without a view to the covetous Scribes and Pharisees, who were in hearing of it, and were disturbed at it, Luke 16:14 and the meaning is, that whereas some of them might have been unfaithful, and have acted the unjust part of gathering of riches, as Matthew, and other publicans, that were now become the followers of Christ; if therefore they should be unfaithfulin the unrighteous mammon; in the disposing of it to improper uses, which was either unrighteously gotten, and therefore called, as it sometimes was, ממון דרשע, "mammon of ungodliness", or "ungodly mammon" x; or, which was fallacious, deceitful, vain, and transitory:who will commit to your trust the true riches; or mammon? that is, how should you expect to be intrusted with the riches of grace, as the blessings and promises of the covenant of grace, the graces of the Spirit of God, which truly enrich persons, and are solid and durable? or the riches of glory, the better and more enduring substance in heaven, signified by a kingdom, and an inheritance that fadeth not away? so the Jews call the good things of another world, and say y, that"all the good things of this world are not טובות אמתיות, "true good things", in comparison of the good things of the world to come.''And they use the same distinction with respect to "mammon", as here:"the holy, blessed God, they say z, gives him, של אמתממון, "mammon of truth", or true mammon; and he makes it שקר, "false", or deceitful:''or rather the rich treasure of the Gospel is meant, called a treasure in earthen vessels, and the unsearchable riches of Christ; and is comparable to, and of more worth than gold, silver, and precious stones. And so the Syriac version renders it, "who will trust you with the truth?" with the truth of the Gospel.x Targum in Hab. ii. 9. y Tzeror Hammor, fol. 23. 2. z Shemot Rabba, sect. 31. fol. 134. 4.