Verse Acts 14:11. Saying, in the speech of Lycaonia — What this language was has puzzled the learned not a little. Calmet thinks it was a corrupt Greek dialect; as Greek was the general language of Asia Minor. Mr. Paul Ernest Jablonski, who has written a dissertation expressly on the subject, thinks it was the same language with that of the Cappadocians, which was mingled with Syriac. That it was no dialect of the Greek must be evident from the circumstance of its being here distinguished from it. We have sufficient proofs from ancient authors that most of these provinces used different languages; and it is correctly remarked, by Dr. Lightfoot, that the Carians, who dwelt much nearer Greece than the Lycaonians, are called by Homer, βαρβαροφωνοι, people of a barbarous or strange language; and Pausanias also called them Barbari. That the language of Pisidia was distinct from the Greek we have already seen, Clarke's note on "Acts 13:15". We have no light to determine this point; and every search after the language of Lycaonia must be, at this distance of time, fruitless.The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men. — From this, and from all heathen antiquity, it is evident:1. That the heathen did not consider the Divine nature, how low soever they rated it, to be like the human nature.2. That they imagined that these celestial beings often assumed human forms to visit men, in order to punish the evil and reward the good. The Metamorphoses of Ovid are full of such visitations; and so are Homer, Virgil, and other poets. The angels visiting Abraham, Jacob, Lot, c., might have been the foundation on which most of these heathen fictions were built. The following passage in HOMER will cast some light upon the point:-   Και τε Θεοι, ξεινοισιν εοικοτες αλλοδαποισι, Παντοιοι τελεθοντες, επιστρωφωσι ποληας, Ανθρωπων ὑβριν τε και ευνομιην εφορωντες. Hom. Odyss. xvii. ver. 485.  For in similitude of strangers oft, The gods, who can with ease all shapes assume, Repair to populous cities, where they mark The outrageous and the righteous deeds of men. COWPER. OVID had a similar notion, where he represents Jupiter coming down to visit the earth, which seems to be copied from Genesis, Genesis 18:20-21: And the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is grievous, I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me: and if not, I will know.   Contigerat nostras infamia temporis aures: Quam cupiens falsam, summo delabor Olympo. Et deus humana lustro sub imagine terras. Longa mora est, quantum noxae sit ubique repertum, Enamerare: minor fuit ipsa infamia vero. Metam. lib. i. ver. 211.  The clamours of this vile, degenerate age, The cries of orphans, and the oppressor's rage, Had reached the stars: "I will descend," said I, In hope to prove this loud complaint a lie. Disguised in human shape, I travelled round The world, and more than what I heard, I found. DRYDEN. It was a settled belief among the Egyptians, that their gods, sometimes in the likeness of men, and sometimes in that of animals which they held sacred, descended to the earth, and travelled through different provinces, to punish, reward, and protect. The Hindoo Avatars, or incarnations of their gods, prove how generally this opinion had prevailed. Their Poorana are full of accounts of the descent of Brahma, Vishnoo, Shiva, Naradu, and other gods, in human shape. We need not wonder to find it in Lycaonia.