Verse Hebrews 2:13. I will put my trust in him. — It is not clear to what express place of Scripture the apostle refers: words to this effect frequently occur; but the place most probably is Psalms 18:2, several parts of which psalm seem to belong to the Messiah.Behold I and the children which God hath given me. — This is taken from Isaiah 8:18. The apostle does not intend to say that the portions which he has quoted have any particular reference, taken by themselves, to the subject in question; they are only catch-words of whole paragraphs, which, taken together, are full to the point; because they are prophecies of the Messiah, and are fulfilled in him. This is evident from the last quotation: Behold I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel. Jesus and his disciples wrought a multitude of the most stupendous signs and wonders in Israel. The expression also may include all genuine Christians; they are for signs and wonders throughout the earth. And as to the 18th Psalm, the principal part of it seems to refer to Christ's sufferings; but the miracles which were wrought at his crucifixion, the destruction of the Jewish state and polity, the calling of the Gentiles, and the establishment of the Christian Church, appear also to be intended. See among others the following passages: SUFFERINGS - The sorrows of death compassed me - in my distress I called upon the Lord. MIRACLES at the crucifixion - The earth shook and trembled - and darkness was under his feet. DESTRUCTION of the Jewish state - I have pursued mine enemies and overtaken them; they are fallen under my feet. CALLING of the GENTILES - Thou hast made me head of the heathen; a people whom I have never known shall serve me; as soon as they hear of me - they shall obey me, c., c. A principal design of the apostle is to show that such scriptures are prophecies of the Messiah that they plainly refer to his appearing in the flesh in Israel and that they have all been fulfilled in Jesus Christ, and the calling of the Gentiles to the privileges of the Gospel. To establish these points was of great importance.