 14 .]  Substantiation ( γάρ )  of that implied in last verse, that further knowledge will remove this their grief : and that knowledge, grounded on the resurrection of our Lord.
	 εἰ ] not ‘  seeing that :’ but hypothetical: ‘  posito , that we, &c.’
	 ἀπέθ  .   κ  .   ἀνέστη go together, forming the same process through which οἱ κοιμώμενοι are passing. “The Apostle here, as always, uses the direct term ἀπέθανε in reference to our Lord, to obviate all possible misconception: in reference to the faithful he appropriately uses the consolatory term κοιμᾶσθαι : see Thdrt. in loc.” Ellicott.
	 οὕτως ] The two clauses do not accurately correspond. We should expect καὶ πιστεύομεν ὅτι οὕτως καὶ οἱ ἐν Ἰησοῦ κοιμηθέντες ἀναστήσονται , or the like. Still the  οὕτως betokens identity of lot for the two parties concerned, viz., death, and resurrection. In this they resemble: but in the expressed particulars here, they differ. Christ’s was simply ἀνέστη : theirs shall be a resurrection through Him, at His coming.
	 διὰ τ  .   Ἰησοῦ ] I feel compelled to differ from the majority of modern scholars (not Ellicott), in adhering to the old connexion of these words with τ . κοιμηθέντας . I am quite aware of the grammatical difficulty: but as I hope to shew, it is not insuperable. But if we join  διὰ τ  .   Ἰησ  . with  ἄξει , we obtain a clause which I am persuaded the Apostle could never have written, flat and dragging in the extreme  διὰ τοῦ Ἰησοῦ ἄξει σὺν αὐτῷ    αὐτῷ referring to Ἰησοῦ already mentioned in the same clause. Whereas, on the other connexion, we have  Ἰησοῦς and  οἱ κοιμηθέντες διὰ τοῦ Ἰησοῦ set over against one another, the very article, and the unemphatic position of the words, shewing the reference back, and we have  αὐτῷ naturally and forcibly referring back to  Ἰησοῦς and  διὰ τοῦ Ἰησοῦ , in the preceding clauses. In other words, the logical construction of the sentence seems to me so plainly to require the connexion of  διὰ τοῦ Ἰησοῦ with  κοιμηθέντας , that it must be a grammatical impossibility only, which can break that connexion. But let us see whether there be such an impossibility present.  οἱ κοιμηθέντες are confessedly the  Christian dead, and none else. They are distinguished by the Apostle’s use of and adhesion to the word, from the merely θανόντες . What makes this distinction? Why are they asleep, and not dead?  By whom have they been thus privileged? Certainly, διὰ τοῦ Ἰησοῦ . We are said πιστεύειν δι ʼ αὐτοῦ ( Act 3:16 ), εὐχαριστεῖν δι ʼ αὐτοῦ ( Rom 1:8 ), εἰρήνην ἔχειν δι ʼ αὐτοῦ (ib. Rom 5:1 ), καυχᾶσθαι δι ʼ αὐτοῦ (ib. Rom 1:11 ), παρακαλεῖσθαι δι ʼ αὐτοῦ ( 2Co 1:5 ), &c. &c.: why not also κοιμᾶσθαι δι ʼ αὐτοῦ ? And when Lünem. objects, that the extent of the idea  οἱ κοιμηθέντες is understood from the former part of the sentence,  εἰ πιστεύομεν κ . τ . λ ., this very reason seems to me the most natural one for the specification  If we believe that Jesus died and rose again, then even thus also those, of whom we say that they sleep , just  because of Jesus, will God , &c.: the emphasis being on the  διὰ . Jowett keeps this connexion, merely saying however, “nor will the order of the words allow us to connect them with ἄξει ;” a reason surely insufficient for it. He is certainly in error when he continues, “The only remaining mode is to take διὰ for ἐν (?), ‘those that are asleep in Christ.’ ”
	 ἄξει σὺν αὐτῷ ]  will bring (back to us)  with Him (Jesus): i.e. when Jesus shall appear, they also shall appear with Him, being (as below) raised at His coming. Of their disembodied souls there is here no mention: nor is the meaning, as often understood, that God will bring them (their disembodied souls, to be joined to their raised bodies) with Him: but the bringing them with Jesus = their being raised when Jesus appears.