 1 .]  λοιπόν has no reference to time, ἀεὶ κ . εἰς τὸ διηνεκές , Chr., Thl., but introduces this second portion, thus dividing it from the first, and implying the  close of the Epistle. St. Paul uses it towards the end of his Epistles: see in addition to reff., Ephesians 6:10 ; Philippians 4:8 .
	 οὖν , in furtherance of the wish of ch. 1 Thessalonians 3:12-13 ; τούτῳ κεχρημένοι τῷ σκόπῳ προσφέρομεν ὑμῖν τὴν παραίνεσιν .
	 ἐρωτῶμεν ] in the classics, only used of  asking a question : but in N. T. (as the Heb. שָׁאַל , Lün., which however, in the sense of  requesting , is rendered in the LXX by αἰτεῖν ) it has both meanings of our verb ‘  to ask ’ (reff.).
	 παρακ  .   ἐν κυρ  .   Ἰησ  . ]  we exhort you in (as our element of exhortation; in whom we do all things pertaining to the ministry (see Rom 9:1 ): Eph 4:17 not ‘  by ,’ as a ‘formula jurandi,’ which is contrary to N. T. usage, see Fritzsche on Rom 9:1 )  the Lord Jesus, that as ye received (see on ch. 1Th 2:13 )  from us how (  τό is not superfluous: it collects and specifies what follows, q.d. ‘the manner of your,’ &c.)  ye ought to walk and to please God (i.e. to please God in your walk and conduct: to walk, and thereby to please God),  as also ye are walking (this addition, says Lün., is required as well (see var. readd.) by internal considerations. For  ἵνα περισσ  . requires the assumption of a prior commencement (see 1Th 4:10 ): and such a commencement would not be implied in the preceding text, without καθὼς καὶ περιπατεῖτε . Evidently the Apostle would originally have written ἵνα , καθ . παρ . παρ ʼ ἡμ . τὸ πῶς κ . τ . λ .…, οὕτως καὶ περιπατῆτε : but while writing, altered this his intended expression, that he might not say too little, wishing to notice the good beginning already made by the Thessalonians. The repetition of ἵνα after so long an intervening clause is too natural to have given rise (as De W. thinks) to the insertion)  that ye abound yet more , viz.: ἐν τῷ οὕτως περιπατεῖν : not, as Chrys., ἵνα ἐκ πλείονος περιουσίας , μὴ μέχρι τῶν ἐντολῶν ἵστασθε , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα καὶ ὑπερβαίνητε .