 4 .]  εἰδέναι ,  know how (reff.). On the meaning of  τὸ σκεῦος , there has been much difference. Very many Commentators understand it of ‘  the body .’ (So, among others, Chrys. (see below), Thdrt., Œc., Thll., Tert., Pelag., Calv., Corn.-a-lap., Beza, Grot., Calov., Ham., Beng., Mac-knight. Pelt, Olsh., Baumg.-Crus.) But it is fatal to this interpretation, (1) that it must force an untenable meaning on  κτᾶσθαι , which can only mean ‘  to acquire ,’ not ‘  to possess .’ Chrys., whose sense of Greek usage led him to feel this, tries to fit the meaning ‘  to acquire ’ into the sense: ἡμεῖς αὐτὸ κτώμεθα , ὅταν μένῃ καθαρὸν κ . ἐστιν ἐν ἁγιασμῷ · ὅταν δὲ ἀκάθαρτον , ἁμαρτία (so Olsh. also); but this is lame enough, and would not, as De W. remarks, answer for the other member of the sentence, μὴ ἐν πάθει ἐπιθυμίας . (2) that the mere use of  σκεῦος , without any explanation, could hardly point at the  body . In all the passages ordinarily quoted to support it, the metaphor is further explained by the context: e.g., Barnab., ep. 7, 11, pp. 744, 760, τὸ σκεῦος τοῦ πνεύματος αὐτοῦ , Philo, quod det. pot. insid. § 46, vol. i. p. 223, τῆς ψυχῆς ἀγγεῖον τὸ σῶμα , de migr. Abr. § 36, vol. i. p. 467, τοῖς ἀγγείοις τῆς ψυχῆς σώματι κ . αἰσθήσει , Cic. disp. Tusc. i. 22: ‘corpus quidem quasi vas est aut aliquod animi receptaculum,’ Lucret. iii. 441: ‘corpus, quod vas quasi constitit ejus (sc. animæ).’ 2Co 4:7 is evidently no case in point, ὀστρακίνοις being there added, and the body being simply  compared , to an  earthen vessel . (3) that the order of the words is against it. In  τὸ ἑαυτοῦ σκεῦος , the emphasis must lie on  ἑαυτοῦ cf. 1 Corinthians 7:2 , ἕκαστος τὴν ἑαυτοῦ γυναῖκα ἐχέτω . Had the body been meant, this would be without import, and it would more naturally have been τὸ σκεῦος ἑαυτοῦ (or αὐτοῦ ). (4) But a more fatal objection than any of the former is, that the context is entirely against the meaning. The ἁγιασμός has been explained to consist in ἀπέχεσθαι ἀπὸ τῆς  πορνείας . And now this πορνεία comes to be specified, wherein it consists, and how it may be guarded against: viz. in carrying on the divinely-appointed commerce of the sexes in holiness and honour. In fact, the thought is exactly as in 1 Corinthians 7:2 , διὰ τὰς πορνείας ἕκαστος τὴν ἑαυτοῦ γυναῖκα ἐχέτω , κ . ἑκάστη τὸν ἴδιον ἄνδρα ἐχέτω . Many have therefore understood σκεῦος in its literal meaning as applied to τὸ πρᾶγμα , i.e. the  woman (or indeed the  man , on the other side, inasmuch as the woman has ἐξουσία over his body, see 1 Corinthians 7:4 . So that thus it would be an exhortation to the woman also: so De Wette). Thus the context would be satisfied, and the emphatic position of  ἑαυτοῦ (as in 1Co 7:2 ); and  κτᾶσθαι would retain its proper meaning:  that each of you should know how to acquire his own vessel (for this purpose)  in sanctification ( κτᾶσθαι ἐν ἁγ . belong together)  and honour . This sense of  σκεῦος is found in the Jewish books (Megill. Esther 1:11 ; “In convivio dixerunt aliqui: mulieres Medicæ sunt pulcriores: alii, Persicæ sunt pulcriores. Dixit Ahasuerus: Vas meum, quo ego utor, nec Persicum est nec Medicum, sed Chaldaicum”). And the expression κτᾶσθαι γυναῖκα is common: cf. Xen. Symp. ii. 10: ταύτην ( Ξανθίππην κέκτημαι : Ruth 4:10 ; Sir 36:24 . And so Thdr. Mops. ( σκεῦος τὴν ἰδίαν ἑκάστου γαμετὴν ὀνομάζει ), some in Thdrt. ( τινὲς τὸ ἑαυτοῦ σκεῦος τὴν ὁμόζυγα ἡρμήνευσαν ), Aug. (contr. Jul. iv. 10 (56), vol. x. p. 765, ‘ut sciret unusquisque possidere vas suum, hoc est, uxorem:’ cf. also ib. 1 Thessalonians 4:9 (35), p. 805: de nupt. et conc. i. 8 (9), p. 418, ‘non solum igitur conjugatus fidelis vase non utatur alieno, quod faciunt a quibus uxores alienæ appetuntur: sed nec ipsum proprium in concupiscentiæ carnalis morbo possidendum sciat.’ But he mistakes  κτᾶσθαι for  possidere , and so understands the command as given  conjugatis fidelibus ), Thom. Aquin., Zwingle, Est., Heins., Wetst., Schöttg., Michaelis, Koppe, Schott, De Wette, Lünem., al. (Much of the foregoing note is from De W. and Lün.) The objection to the above view, that thus only  men would be addressed (Calv., al.) is easily answered (besides as above, under 4) by observing that in other places also, where πορνεία is in question, the male only is exhorted, e.g. 1 Corinthians 6:15-18 ; the female being included by implication, and bound to interpret on her side that which is said of the other.