 13 .]  οὐ θέλ  .   κ  .  τ  .  λ  . , is with our Apostle (see reff.) a common formula of transition to the imparting of weighty information.
	 τ  .   κοιμ  . ]  those who are sleeping ; so the present is used in the well-known epitaph, ἱερὸν ὕπνον | κοιμᾶται · θνήσκειν μὴ λέγε τοὺς ἀγαθούς . Or we may understand it, ‘those who (from time to time) fall asleep (among you),’ as suggested in the Journal of Sacred Lit. for April, 1856, p. 15: but the other seems simpler. It was an expression (reff.) conveying definite meaning to the Thessalonians as importing  the dead in Christ ( 1Th 4:16 ). No inference must therefore be drawn from the Apostle’s use of this word, as to the intermediate state (as De W. after Weizel,  for the sleep of the soul, and Zwingle, Calvin, al.,  against it): for the word is a mere common term.
	 ἵνα μὴ λ  . ] object of my not wishing you to be ignorant.
	 μὴ λυπ  . is  absolute ,  that ye mourn not : not (as Thdrt., Calvin, al.)  μὴ λυπ  .   καθὼς  … , ‘that ye may not mourn (so much) as others &c.’ He forbids  λυπεῖσθαι altogether. But we must remember,  what sort of λυπεῖσθαι it was. Surely not absolutely the mourning for  our loss in their  absence , but for  theirs (see above), and  in so far , for ours also. See Chrysostom’s very beautiful appeal in loc.
	 οἱ λοιποί ] viz. the heathen, and those Jews who did not believe a resurrection.
	 οἱ μὴ ἔχοντες ἐλπίδα ] viz., in the  resurrection . Lün. cites, Theocr. Idyll. iv. 42, ἐλπίδες ἐν ζωοῖσιν , ἀνέλπιστοι δὲ θανόντες : Æsch. Eum. 638, ἅπαξ θανόντος οὔτις ἐστ ʼ ἀνάστασις : Catull. 1 Thessalonians 5:4 ff., ‘Soles occidere et redire possunt; | nobis quum semel occidit brevis lux | nox est perpetua una dormienda:’ Lucret. iii. 942 f., ‘nec quisquam expergitus exstat | frigida quem semel est vitai pausa secuta.’ Jowett adds ‘the sad complaints of Cicero and Quintilian over the loss of their children, and the dreary hope of an immortality of feme in Tacitus and Thucydides.’ (But when he goes on to say that the language of the O. T., though more religious, is in many passages hardly more cheering, and substantiates this by Isaiah 38:18-19 , it is surely hardly fair to give the dark side, without balancing it with such passages as Psalms 73:23-26 ; Proverbs 14:32 . In the great upward struggle of the ancient church under the dawn of the revelation of life and immortality, we find much indeed of the αἴλινον αἴλινον εἰπέ but the τὸ δ ʼ εὖ νικάτω has its abundant testimonies also.) This shews of  what kind their λύπη was: viz. a grief whose ground was unbelief in a resurrection: which regarded the dead as altogether cut off from Christ’s heavenly kingdom.