 6 .] I cannot help regarding it as most unnatural, to interpret this verse of a new subject introduced, viz. the not wronging one another in the business of life. How such Commentators as De Wette and Lünem. can have entertained this view, I am at a loss to imagine. For (1) the sense is carried on from 1 Thessalonians 4:4-5 , without even the repetition of ἕκαστον ὑμῶν to mark the change of topic: and (2) when the Apostle sums up the whole in 1 Thessalonians 4:7 , he mentions merely impurity, without the slightest allusion to the other. To say that more than one kind of sin must be mentioned because of περὶ πάντων τούτων , is mere trifling: the πάντα ταῦτα (not ταῦτα πάντα , which would collect many individuals into a whole) generalizes from the sin mentioned to a wider range. The interpretation which I impugn, is also that of Zwingle, Calv., Grot., Calov., Le Clerc, Wolf, Koppe, Flatt. I understand the verse, with Chrys., Thdrt., Œc., Thl., Jer., Erasm., Est., Corn.-a-lap., Heins., Whitby, Wetst., Kypke, Beng., Michaelis, Pelt, Olsh., all., to refer to the  sins of uncleanness , and continue 1 Thessalonians 4:4-5 :  that he should not (viz. τινά , contained in the αὐτοῦ following: so that  τὸ μὴ  … is a further specification of ὁ ἁγιασμός , rather than parallel with εἰδέναι )  set at nought (the order of the sentence requires that  ὑπερβ  . should not stand  absolutely , as De W., Lün., al., for ‘  transgress ’ ( μὴ νῦν ὑπέρβαιν ʼ, ἀλλ ʼ ἐναισίμως φέρε , Eur. Alc. 1077: ὅτε κέν τις ὑπερβήῃ κ . ἁμάρτῃ , Il. ι . 497), but  transitively : otherwise  τινα would have occurred after ὑπερβαίνειν to mark the distinction of construction: and ὑπερβ with an accusative of person signifies either ‘  to pass by ’ or ‘  take no notice ,’ ‘posthabere,’ as Herod. iii. 89, ὑπερβαίνων τοὺς προσεχέας : or ‘  to go beyond ’ or ‘  surpass ,’ as Plato, Tim. 24 D, πάσῃ πάντας ἀνθρώπους ὑπερβεβηκότες ἀρετῇ . Of these, the former seems most applicable here: see below)  or overreach his brother in the matter (viz of τὸ ἑαυτοῦσκεῦος κτᾶσθαι that there should be among you none of those strifes on account of the πάθη ἐπιθυμίας , the ‘teterrima belli causa’ in the heathen world. As Jowett rightly observes, “It is not necessary to suppose that any idea of unchastity is conveyed by the term πλεονεκτεῖν , any more than in the tenth commandment, ‘Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour’s wife.’ The meaning exclusively arises from the connexion and application of the word.” How τῷ πράγματι can ever signify τοῖς πράγμασιν , ‘business affairs’ (De W., alt.), I cannot imagine; and it is equally futile (with E. V. arm.) to take τῷ for τῳ = τινι in the N. T. “It is probable that the obscurity of the passage arises partly from the decency in which the Apostle clothes it.” Jowett),  because God is the avenger (‘  righter ,’ in such cases of setting at nought and overreaching)  of all these things (viz. cases of ὑπερβασία and πλεονεξία , and by inference, lustful sins like them)  as also (see on 1Th 4:5 )  we before told you and constantly testified .