 15 .]  Confirmation of last verse by direct revelation from the Lord .
	 τοῦτο this which follows: taken up by  ὅτι  .
	 ἐν λόγῳ κυρ  . , in (virtue of: an assertion made within the sphere and element of that certainty, which the word of the Lord gives)  the word of the Lord , i.e. by direct revelation from Him made to me. τουτέστιν , οὐκ ἀφ ʼ ἑαυτῶν , ὰλλὰ παρὰ τοῦ χριστοῦ μαθόντες λέγομεν , Chr.: ἐκ θείας ἡμῖν ἀποκαλύψεως ἡ διδασκαλία γεγένηται , Thdrt. That St. Paul had many special revelations made to him, we know from 2 Corinthians 12:4 . Cf. also Galatians 1:12 ; Eph 3:3 ; 1 Corinthians 11:23 ; 1 Corinthians 15:3 , and notes.
	 ἡμεῖς οἱ ζῶντες ] Then beyond question, he himself expected to be alive, together with the majority of those to whom he was writing, at the Lord’s coming. For we cannot for a moment accept the evasion of Theodoret (cf. also Chrys. and the majority of ancient Commentators, down to Bengel, and even some of the best of the moderns, warped by their subjectivities: cf. Ellicott here), οὐκ ἐπὶ τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ προσώπου τέθεικεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἐπὶ τῶν κατ ʼ ἐκεῖνον τὸν καιρὸν περιόντων ἀνθρώπων : nor the ungrammatical rendering of Turretin and Pelt ‘we, if we live and remain’ ( ἡμεῖς ζῶντες , περιλειπόμενοι ): nor the idea Œc., al., that  οἱ ζῶντες are the  souls ,  οἱ κοιμηθέντες the  bodies : but must take the words in their only plain grammatical meaning, that  οἱ ζῶντες οἱ περιλ  . are a class distinguished from  οἱ κοιμηθέντες , by being yet in the flesh when Christ comes, in which class, by prefixing  ἡμεῖς , he includes his readers and himself. That this  was his expectation, we know from other passages, especially from 2 Corinthians 5:1-10 , where see notes. It does not seem to have been so strong towards the end of his course; see e.g. Philippians 1:20-26 . Nor need it surprise any Christian, that the Apostles should in this matter of detail have found their personal expectations liable to disappointment, respecting a day of which it is so solemnly said, that no man knoweth its appointed time, not the angels in heaven, nor the Son ( Mar 13:32 ), but the Father only. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that this inclusion of himself and his hearers among the  ζῶντες and  περιλειπόμενοι , does not in any way enter into the fact revealed and here announced, which is respecting that class of persons only as they are, and must be,  one portion of the faithful at the Lord’s coming; not respecting the question,  who shall , and  who shall not be among them in that day.
	 οἱ περιλειπ  .   εἰς …] Dr. Burton, doubting whether περιλειπόμενοι εἰς τ . π . can mean ‘  left to the coming ’ (but why not? εἰς as defining the terminus temporis is surely common enough, cf. Philippians 1:10 ; Acts 4:3 , εἰς τέλος Joh 13:1 al. fr.), puts a comma at περιλειπόμενοι , and takes εἰς τὴν π . with οὐ μὴ φθάσωμεν , rendering,  those who are alive at the last day will not enter into the presence of the Lord before those who have died . But 1) ἡ παρουσία τοῦ κυρίου is never used  locally , of the  presence of the Lord, but always  temporally , of His  coming : and 2) the arrangement of the sentence would in that case be οὐ μὴ φθ . τοὺς κοιμ . εἰς τ . π . τοῦ κυρ .
	 οὐ μὴ φθάσωμευ ]  shall not (emphatic ‘there is no reason to fear, that …’)  prevent (get before, so that they be left behind, and fail of the prize).