 16 .] A reason of the foregoing assertion, by detailing the method of the resurrection.  Because (not ‘  that ,’so as to be parallel with ὅτι before, as Koch)  the Lord Himself (not, as De W., ‘  He, the Lord ’ which would be to the last degree flat and meaningless; nor as Olsh., ‘the Lord  Himself ,’ in contrast to any other kind of revelation: nor as Lünem., as the chief Person and actor in that day, emphatically opposed to His faithful ones as acted on, but said for solemnity’s sake, and to shew that it will not be a mere  gathering to Him, but HE HIMSELF will descend, and we all shall be summoned before Him)  with (‘  in ,’ as the element, the accompanying circumstance)  a signal-shout ( κέλευσμα is not only ‘  the shout of battle ,’ as Conyb.; but is used of any signal given by the voice, whether of a captain to his rowers, Thuc. ii. 92: of a man shouting to another at a distance, Herod. iv. 141: of a huntsman to his dogs, Xen. Cyneg. vi. 20. Here it seems to include in it the two which follow and explain it),  viz. with the voice of an archangel (Christ shall be surrounded with His angels, Mat 25:31 al. To enquire,  which archangel, is futile: to understand the word of  Christ Himself (Ambrst., Olsh.) or the Holy Spirit (al.), impossible),  and with the trumpet of God (  θεοῦ as in reff., the trumpet especially belonging to and used in the heavenly  state of God; not  commanded by God (Pelt, Olsh., al.), nor does  θεοῦ import  size or  loudness (Bengel, al.), although these qualities of course are understood. On the trumpet as summoning assemblies, cf. Numbers 10:2 ; Numbers 31:6 ; Joel 2:1 : as accompanying the divine appearances, Exodus 19:16 ; Psalms 47:5 ; Isaiah 27:13 ; Zechariah 9:14 ; Mat 24:31 ; 1Co 15:52 )  shall descend from heaven (cf. Act 1:11 ):  and the dead in Christ (  ἐν χρ  . must not, as Pelt, Schott, be joined with  ἀναστήσονται  : for apart from the question whether this would give  any admissible meaning, it would bring ἐν χριστῷ into an emphatic position of prominence, which would confuse the whole sentence)  shall first rise ( πρῶτον has no reference whatever to the  first resurrection ( Rev 20:5-6 ), here, for  only the Lord’s people are here in question: but answers to  ἔπειτα below:  first , the dead in Christ shall rise:  then , we, &c.):  then we who are living, who remain (as above)  shall be caught up (reff.: the great change spoken of 1 Corinthians 15:52 , having first suddenly taken place)  all together (see Romans 3:12 , ch. 1Th 5:10 note: ἅμα does not belong to σὺν αὐτοῖς )  with them (the raised of 1Th 4:16 )  in (the)  clouds ( ἔδειξε τὸ μέγεθος τῆς τιμῆς · ὥσπερ γὰρ αὐτὸς ὁ δεσπότης ἐπὶ νεφελῆς φωτεινῆς ἀνελήφθη , οὕτω καὶ οἱ εἰς αὐτὸν πεπιστευκότες … ἐπὶ νεφελῶν ὀχούμενοι ὑπαντήσους . τῷ τῶν ὅλων κριτῇ … Thdrt.)  to meet the Lord (as He descends: so Aug. de civit. Dei xx. 20. 2, vol. vii. p. 688: ‘non sic accipiendum est tanquam in aëre nos dixerit semper cum Domino mansuros, quia nec ipse utique ibi manebit, quia veniens transiturus est, venienti quippe itur obviam, non manenti.’ Christ is  on His way to this earth : and when De W. says that there is no plain trace in St. Paul of Christ’s kingdom on earth, and Lün., that the words shew that the Apostle did not think of Christ as descending down to the earth, surely they cannot suppose him to have been so ignorant of O. T. prophecy, as to have allowed this, its plain testimony, to escape him.  εἰς ἀπάντησιν occurs (reff.) twice more in the N. T., and each time implies meeting one who was  approaching not merely ‘meeting with’ a person)  into the air (belongs to  ἁρπαγησόμεθα , not to  εἰς ἀπ  .   τοῦ κυρ  . as in E. V.),  and thus we (i.e. we and they united, ἡμεῖς ἅμα , σὺν αὐτοῖς , who were the subject of the last sentence)  shall be always with the Lord . That he advances no further in the prophetic description, but breaks off at our union in Christ’s presence, is accounted for, by his purpose being accomplished, in having shewn that they who have died in Christ, shall not be thereby deprived of any advantage at His coming. The rest of the great events of that time His advent on this earth, His judgment of it, assisted by His saints ( 1Co 6:2-3 ), His reign upon earth, His final glorification with His redeemed in heaven, are not treated here, but not therefore to be conceived of as alien from the Apostle’s teaching.