 29 34. ] HEALING OF TWO BLIND MEN ON HIS DEPARTURE FROM JERICHO. Mark 10:46-52 .Luke 18:35-43; Luke 18:35-43 ; Luke 19:1 , with however some remarkable differences. In the much more detailed account of St. Mark, we have but one blind man, mentioned by name as Bartimæus; St. Luke also relates it of only one, and besides says that it was ἐν τῷ ἐγγίζειν αὐτὸν εἰς Ἱεριχώ . The only fair account of such differences is, that they existed in the sources from which each Evangelist took his narrative. This later one is easily explained, from the circumstance having happened close to Jericho in two accounts, just on leaving it in the third, on approaching to it: but he must be indeed a slave to the  letter , who would stumble at such discrepancies, and not rather see in them the corroborating coincidence of testimonies to the fact itself (see Olshausen, Comment, i. 752). Yet Mr. Greswell (as Theophylact, Neander, and Ebrard, Evangelien-kritik, p. 572) strangely supposes our Lord to have healed  one blind man (as in Luke)  on entering Jericho , and  another (Bartimæus, as in Mark)  on leaving it , and Matthew to have, ‘with his characteristic brevity in relating miracles,’  combined both these in one . But then what becomes of Matthew’s assertion,  ἐκπορευομένων αὐτῶν ἀπὸ Ἱερ  .? Can we possibly imagine, that the Evangelist, having  both facts before him, could combine them and preface them with what he  must know to be false? It is just thus that the Harmonists utterly destroy the credibility of the Scripture narrative. Accumulate upon this the absurd improbabilities involved in two men, under the same circumstances, addressing our Lord in the same words at so very short an interval, and we may be thankful that biblical criticism is at length being emancipated from ‘forcing narratives into accordance.’ See notes on Mark: and a more curious and more recent example of harmonistic ingenuity, in Wordsw.’s note here. It is highly instructive to us, that a Commentator, with the marks of sequence in time given by ἐν τῷ ἐγγίζειν αὐτὸν εἰς Ἱερ . and ἐκπορευομένων αὐτῶν ἀπὸ Ἱερ ., should fly for a solution to the Rabbinical canon, “non est prius aut posterius in Scriptura.”
	JERICHO, 150 stadia (= 18 rom. miles) N.E. of Jerusalem (Jos. B. J. iv. 8. 3), and 60 (= 7.2 rom. miles) W. from the Jordan (Jos. ibid.), in the tribe of Benjamin ( Jos 18:21 ), near the borders of Ephraim ( Jos 16:7 ). The environs were like an oasis surrounded by high and barren limestone mountains, well watered and fertile, rich in palmtrees (Deuteronomy 34:3 ; Judges 1:16 ; Jdg 3:13 ), roses ( Sir 24:14 ), and balsam (Jos. Antt. iv. 6. 1 a [156] .). After its destruction by Joshua, its rebuilding was prohibited under a curse ( Jos 6:26 ), which was incurred by Hiel the Bethelite in the days of Ahab ( 1Ki 16:34 ): i.e. he  fortified it, for it was an inhabited city before (see Judges 3:13 ; 2Sa 10:5 ). We find it the seat of a school of the prophets, 2 Kings 2:4 ff. After the captivity we read of it Ezra 2:34 ; Nehemiah 7:36 ; and in 1Ma 9:50 we read that Jonathan strengthened its fortifications. It was much embellished by Herod the Great, who had a palace there (Jos. Antt. xvi. 5. 2 a [157] .), and at this time was one of the principal cities of Palestine, and the residence of an ἀρχιτελώνης on account of the balsam trade ( Luk 19:1 ). At present there is on or near the site only a miserable village, Richa or Ericha. Winer, RWB.
	 [156] alii = some cursive mss.
	 [157] alii = some cursive mss.