 1 16. ] PARABLE OF THE LABOURERS IN THE VINEYARD.  Peculiar to Matthew . In interpreting this difficult parable, we must first carefully observe its occasion and connexion. It is bound by the γάρ to the conclusion of chap. 19, and arose out of the question of Peter in Matthew 20:27 , τί ἄρα ἔσται ἡμῖν ; (1) Its ‘punctum saliens’ is, that the Kingdom of God is of  grace , not of debt; that  they who were called first, and have laboured longest, have no more claim upon God than those who were called last: but that  to all, His covenant promise shall be fulfilled in its integrity . (2) Its  primary application is to the  Apostles , who had asked the question. They were not to be of such a spirit, as to imagine, with the murmurers in Matthew 20:11 , that they should have something supereminent (because they were called first, and had laboured longest) above those who  in their own time were to be afterward called (see 1Co 15:8-11 ). (3) Its  secondary applications are to all those to whom such a comparison, of  first and last called , will apply:  nationally , to the Jews, who were first called, and with a  definite covenant , and the Heathens who came in afterwards, and on a covenant, though  really made (see Jeremiah 31:33 ; Zechariah 8:8 ; Heb 8:10 ), yet  not so open and prominent; individually , to those whose call has been in early life, and who have spent their days in God’s active service, and those who have been summoned later; and to various other classes and persons between whom comparison, not only of  time , but of advantages, talents, or any other distinguishing characteristic, can be made: that none of the first of these can boast themselves over the others, nor look for higher place and greater reward, inasmuch as there is but one “gift” of God according to the covenant of grace. And the “first” of these are to see that they do not by pride and self-righteousness become the “last,” or worse be rejected, as nationally were the Jews; for among the many that are called, there are few chosen many who will fail of the reward in the end. (4) In subordination to this leading idea and warning of the parable must the circumstances brought before us be interpreted. The  day and its  hours are not any fixed time, such as the duration of the world, or our Lord’s life on earth, or the life of man, exclusively: but  the natural period of earthly work as applied to the various meanings of which the parable is capable. The  various times of hiring are not to be pressed as each having an exclusive meaning in each interpretation: they serve to spread the calling over the various periods, and to shew that it is again and again made. They are the  quarters of the natural day, when the aliquot parts of the day’s wages could be earned, and therefore labourers would be waiting. The  last of these is inserted for a special purpose, and belongs more expressly to the instruction of the parable. (5) The  μισθος bears an important part in the interpretation. I cannot with Stier (whose comment on this parable I think much inferior to his usual remarks) suppose it to mean “the promise of this life” attached to godliness. His anxiety to escape from the danger of  eternal life being matter of wages , has here misled him. But there is no such danger in the interpretation of the parable which I believe to be the true one. The μισθός is the  promise of the covenant , uniformly represented by our Lord and His Apostles as a ‘  reward ,’ Matthew 5:12 ; Luke 6:35 ; Luke 14:14 ; John 4:36 ; 1Co 3:14 ; 2 John 1:8 ; Hebrews 10:35 ; Hebrews 11:6 a [152] .,  reckoned indeed of free grace; but still, forensically considered, answering to, and represented by, ‘wages,’ as claimed under God’s covenant with man in Christ. (The freeness and sovereignty of God’s gift of grace is pointedly set before us in Matthew 20:14 ,  θέλω δὲ τού . τ . ἐσχ . δοῦναι .…) This μισθός I believe then to be  eternal life , or, in other words, GOD HIMSELF ( Joh 17:3 ). And this, rightly understood, will keep us from the error of supposing, that the parable involves a declaration that all who are saved will be in an absolute equality. This gift is, and will be, to each man, as he is prepared to receive it. To the envious and murmurers, it will be as the fruit that turned to ashes in the mouth; by their own unchristian spirit they will “lose the things that they have wrought” ( 2Jn 1:8 ), and their reward will be null: in other words, they will, as the spiritual verity necessitates,  not enter into that life to which they were called . God’s covenant is fulfilled to them they have received their denarius but, from the essential nature of the μισθός , are disqualified from enjoying its use: for as Gregory the Great remarks (Hom. 19 in Evv., p. 1512) ‘cœlorum regnum nullus murmurans accipit: nullus qui accipit murmurare poterit.’ To those who have known and loved God, it will be, to each as he has advanced in the spiritual life, joy unspeakable and full of glory. (In the 2nd edn. of the Reden Jesu (p. 299, note), Stier has even more emphatically declared himself in favour of his former view, and that with reference to my note;  wenn auch Alford mir widerspricht und meine Eregese hier “much inferior to his usual remarks”  nennt, so muss ich erwarten, ob oielleicht die zweite Auflage mit ihren genaueren Beziehungen ihn beffer uberzeugt. But after carefully weighing the whole, I am quite unable to accede to his view; indeed I feel more repugnance to it than ever. The “promise of the life that now is” seems to me wholly beneath the dignity of the parable, and in his explanation he appears painfully to feel it so. The text above quoted, 2 John 1:8 , seems to me to furnish the key to the parable, and to have been written with reference to it: and there no one surely could interpret μισθός otherwise than of the μισθὸς ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς of our ch. 5.)
	 [152] alii = some cursive mss.