 Ye husbands likewise  (ο ανδρες ομοιως). Probably "likewise" here refers to honouring all men (1 Peter 2:17), not "likewise" of 1 Peter 3:1.Dwell with  (συνοικουντες). Present active participle of συνοικεω, old verb for domestic association, here only in N.T. Used as imperative here like the participle in 1 Peter 2:18; 1 Peter 3:1.According to knowledge  (κατα γνωσιν). "With an intelligent recognition of the nature of the marriage relation" (Vincent).Giving honour unto the woman as unto the weaker vessel  (ως ασθενεστερω σκευε τω γυναικειω απονεμοντες τιμην). Present active participle of απονεμω, old verb, to assign, to portion out (or off), here only in N.T. Σκευος is an old and common word for vessel, furniture, utensil (Matthew 12:29; 2 Timothy 2:20). Here both husband and wife are termed vessels or "parts of the furniture of God's house" (Bigg). See Paul's use of σκευος for ministers (2 Corinthians 4:7). Γυναικειω here is an adjective (female, feminine) from γυνη (woman, wife). She is termed "the weaker" (τω ασθενεστερω), not for intellectual or moral weakness, but purely for physical reasons, which the husband must recognize with due consideration for marital happiness.Joint-heirs of the grace of life  (συνκληρονομο χαριτος ζωης). Late double compound found in an Ephesian inscription and the papyri, in N.T. only here, Romans 8:17; Ephesians 3:6; Hebrews 11:9. God's gift of life eternal belongs to woman as well as to man. In the eyes of God the wife may be superior to the husband, not merely equal.To the end that your prayers be not hindered  (εις το μη εγκοπτεσθα τας προσευχας υμων). Purpose clause with εις το and the present passive infinitive (with negative μη) of εγκοπτω, to cut in, to interrupt, late verb (Polybius), as in Romans 15:22, etc. Very vivid to us now with our telephones and radios when people cut in on us. Προσευχας (prayers) is the accusative of general reference. Husbands surely have here cause to consider why their prayers are not answered. 