 17 31. ] ANSWER TO AN ENQUIRER RESPECTING ETERNAL LIFE, AND DISCOURSE THEREUPON. Matthew 19:16-30 . Luke 18:18-30 . On the different form of our Lord’s answer in Matt., see notes there. As it here stands, so far from giving any countenance to Socinian error, it is a pointed rebuke of the very view of Christ which they who deny His Divinity entertain. He was no ‘good Master,’ to be singled out from men on account of His pre-eminence over his kind in virtue and wisdom: God sent us no such Christ as this, nor may any of the sons of men be thus called  good . He was  one with Him who only is good, the Son of the Father, come not to teach us merely, but to beget us anew by the divine power which dwells in Him. The low view then, which this applicant takes of Him and his office, He at once rebukes and annuls, as He had done before in the case of Nicodemus: see John 3:1 ff. and notes. The dilemma, as regards the Socinians, has been well put (see Stier ii. 283, note):  either , “There is none good, but God: Christ is good: therefore Christ IS GOD;”  or , “There is none good, but God: Christ is not God: therefore Christ IS NOT GOOD.”
	With regard to other points, the variations in the narratives are trifling, but instructive εἰ δὲ θέλ . εἰς τ . ζ . εἰς . τήρ . τ . ἐντ . λέγει αὐτῷ , Ποίας ; ὁ δὲ Ἰης . εἶπεν Τό . (Matt.) = τὰς ἐντολὰς οἶδας (Mark and Luke) without any break in the discourse. Similarly, in Matt., the young (Matt.) ruler (Luke) asks, Mark 10:20 , τί ἔτι ὑστερῶ ; but in Mark and Luke, Jesus says to him (and here with the remarkable addition of  ἐμβλ  .   αὐτ  .   ἠγ  .   αὐτ  .),   ἕν σε ὑστερεῖ (or σοι λείπει ). Such notices as these shew the point at which, not short of which nor beyond which, we may expect the Evangelists to be in accord; viz. in that  inner truthfulness of faithful report which reflects to us the teaching of the Lord, but does not depend on slavish literal exactitude; which latter if we require, we overthrow their testimony, and most effectually do the work of our adversaries.