 32. ] The modern German interpreters assume the identity of this miracle with that narrated in ch. Matthew 14:14 ff. If this be so, then our Evangelists must have  forged the speech attributed to our Lord in ch. Matthew 16:9-10 . But, as Ebrard justly remarks (Evangelienkritik, p. 532), every circumstance which could vary, does vary, in the two accounts. The situation in the wilderness, the kind of food at hand, the blessing and breaking, and distributing by means of the disciples, these are  common to the two accounts , and were likely to be so: but  here the matter is introduced by our Lord Himself with an expression of pity for the multitudes who had continued with Him three days: here also the provision is greater, the numbers are less than on the former occasion. But there is one small token of authenticity which marks these two accounts as referring to two distinct events, even had we not such direct testimony as that of ch. Matthew 16:9-10 . It is, that whereas the baskets in which the fragments were collected on the other occasion are called by all four Evangelists  κόφινοι  , those used for that purpose after this miracle are in both Matt. and Mark  σπυρίδες  . And when our Lord refers to the two miracles,  the same distinction is observed; a particularity which could not have arisen except as pointing to a matter of fact, that, whatever the distinction be, which is uncertain, different kinds of baskets were used on the two occasions. Perhaps the strangest reason for supposing the two identical (given by De Wette, Schleiermacher, and others) is an imagined difficulty in the question of the disciples, πόθεν ἡμῖν κ . τ . λ ., so soon after the former miracle; as if the same slowness to believe and trust in divine power were not repeatedly found among men, and instanced in Scripture itself; compare Exo 16:13 with Numbers 11:21-22 ; and read in Exo 17:1-7 the murmurings of the Israelites immediately after their deliverance at the Red Sea. And even could we recognize this as a difficulty, it is not necessarily implied in the text. Our Lord puts the matter to them as a question, without the slightest intimation of His intention to supply the want supernaturally. They make answer in the same spirit, without venturing (as indeed it would have been most unbecoming in them to do, see Joh 2:3-4 ) to suggest the working of a miracle. De Wette’s assumption that the usage of κόφινοι and σπυρίδες shews two different traditional sources used by the author, would make it necessary to suppose that the  forger of ch. Mat 16:9-10 has been skilful enough to preserve this distinction; an accuracy seldom found in interpolations of early Christian times.
	On  ἡμέρια τρεῖς see reff. and Winer, § 62. 2, note.