6. This—the Person mentioned
	in 1 John 5:5. This Jesus.
he that came by water and
	blood—"by water," when His ministry was inaugurated
	by baptism in the Jordan, and He received the Father's testimony to
	His Messiahship and divine Sonship. Compare 1 John 5:5- :, "believeth that Jesus is the Son of God,"
	with John 1:33; John 1:34,
	"The Spirit . . . remaining on Him . . . I saw and bare record
	that this is the Son of God"; and John 1:34- :, below, "there are three that bear witness in
	earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood." Corresponding
	to this is the baptism of water and the Spirit which He has
	instituted as a standing seal and mean of initiatory incorporation
	with Him. 
	and blood—He came by
	"the blood of His cross" (so "by" is used, John 1:34- :: "by," that is, with, "His own blood
	He entered in once into the holy place"): a fact seen and
	so solemnly witnessed to by John. "These two past facts
	in the Lord's life are this abiding testimony to us, by virtue
	of the permanent application to us of their cleansing and atoning
	power." 
	Jesus Christ—not a mere
	appellation, but a solemn assertion of the Lord's Person and
	Messiahship. 
	not by, c.—Greek,
	"not IN the
	water only, but IN the
	water and IN (so oldest
	manuscripts add) the blood." As "by"
	implies the mean through, or with, which He came: so
	"in," the element in which He came. "The"
	implies that the water and the blood were sacred and
	well-known symbols. John Baptist came only baptizing with water, and
	therefore was not the Messiah. Jesus came first to undergo
	Himself the double baptism of water and blood, and then to baptize us
	with the Spirit-cleansing, of which water is the sacramental
	seal, and with His atoning blood, the efficacy of which, once
	for all shed, is perpetual in the Church and therefore is the
	Messiah. It was His shed blood which first gave water
	baptism its spiritual significancy. We are baptized into His
	death: the grand point of union between us and Him, and, through
	Him, between us and God. 
	it is the Spirit, c.—The
	Holy Spirit is an additional witness (compare John 1:34- :), besides the water and the blood, to Jesus'
	Sonship and Messiahship. The Spirit attested these
	truths at Jesus' baptism by descending on Him, and throughout His
	ministry by enabling Him to speak and do what man never before or
	since has spoken or, done and "it is the Spirit that beareth
	witness" of Christ, now permanently in the Church: both in the
	inspired New Testament Scriptures, and in the hearts of believers,
	and in the spiritual reception of baptism and the Lord's Supper. 
	because the Spirit is
	truth—It is His essential truth which gives His witness
	such infallible authority.