16. If any . . . see—on any
	particular occasion; Greek aorist. 
	his brother—a fellow
	Christian. 
	sin a sin—in the act of
	sinning, and continuing in the sin: present. 
	not unto death—provided
	that it is not unto death.
he shall give—The asker
	shall be the means, by his intercessory prayer, of God giving
	life to the sinning brother. Kindly reproof ought to accompany his
	intercessions. Life was in process of being forfeited by the
	sinning brother when the believer's intercession obtained its
	restoration. 
	for them—resuming the
	proviso put forth in the beginning of the verse. "Provided that
	the sin is not unto death." "Shall give life," I say,
	to, that is, obtain life "for (in the case of)
	them that sin not unto death." 
	I do not say that he shall
	pray for it—The Greek for "pray" means a
	REQUEST as of one on an
	equality, or at least on terms of familiarity, with him from whom the
	favor is sought. "The Christian intercessor for his brethren,
	John declares, shall not assume the authority which would be implied
	in making request for a sinner who has sinned the sin unto death
	(1 Samuel 15:35; 1 Samuel 16:1;
	Mark 3:29), that it might be
	forgiven him" [TRENCH,
	Greek Synonyms of the New Testament]. Compare Mark 3:29- :. Greek "ask" implies the humble petition of
	an inferior; so that our Lord never uses it, but always uses (Greek)
	"request." Martha, from ignorance, once uses "ask"
	in His case (John 11:22).
	"Asking" for a brother sinning not unto death, is a humble
	petition in consonance with God's will. To "request" for a
	sin unto death [intercede, as it were, authoritatively for it,
	as though we were more merciful than God] would savor of presumption;
	prescribing to God in a matter which lies out of the bounds of our
	brotherly yearning (because one sinning unto death would thereby be
	demonstrated not to be, nor ever to have been, truly a brother, John 11:22- :), how He shall inflict and withhold His righteous judgments.
	Jesus Himself intercedes, not for the world which hardens itself in
	unbelief, but for those given to Him out of the world.