7. three—Two or three
	witnesses were required by law to constitute adequate testimony. The
	only Greek manuscripts in any form which support the
	words, "in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and
	these three are one; and there are three that bear witness in earth,"
	are the Montfortianus of Dublin, copied evidently from the
	modern Latin Vulgate; the Ravianus, copied from the
	Complutensian Polyglot; a manuscript at Naples, with the words
	added in the Margin by a recent hand; Ottobonianus,
	298, of the fifteenth century, the Greek of which is a mere
	translation of the accompanying Latin. All the old versions
	omit the words. The oldest manuscripts of the Vulgate omit
	them: the earliest Vulgate manuscript which has them being
	Wizanburgensis, 99, of the eighth century. A scholium quoted
	in Matthæi, shows that the words did not arise from fraud;
	for in the words, in all Greek manuscripts "there are
	three that bear record," as the Scholiast notices, the
	word "three" is masculine, because the three things
	(the Spirit, the water, and the blood) are SYMBOLS
	OF THE TRINITY. To
	this CYPRIAN, 196, also
	refers, "Of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, it is
	written, 'And these three are one' (a unity)." There must
	be some mystical truth implied in using "three"
	(Greek) in the masculine, though the antecedents,
	"Spirit, water, and blood," are neuter. That THE
	TRINITY was the truth
	meant is a natural inference: the triad specified pointing to a still
	Higher Trinity; as is plain also from  :-, "the witness of GOD,"
	referring to the Trinity alluded to in the Spirit, water, and
	blood. It was therefore first written as a marginal comment to
	complete the sense of the text, and then, as early at least as
	the eighth century, was introduced into the text of the Latin
	Vulgate. The testimony, however, could only be borne on earth
	to men, not in heaven. The marginal comment, therefore, that
	inserted "in heaven," was inappropriate. It is on earth
	that the context evidently requires the witness of the three, the
	Spirit, the water, and the blood, to be borne: mystically
	setting forth the divine triune witnesses, the Father, the
	Spirit, and the Son. LUECKE
	notices as internal evidence against the words, John never uses "the
	Father" and "the Word" as correlates, but, like other
	New Testament writers, associates "the Son" with "the
	Father," and always refers "the Word" to "God"
	as its correlate, not "the Father." Vigilius, at the end of
	the fifth century, is the first who quotes the disputed words as in
	the text; but no Greek manuscript earlier than the fifteenth
	is extant with them. The term "Trinity" occurs first
	in the third century in TERTULLIAN
	[Against Praxeas, 3].