This chapter Ephesians 2:0 is closely connected in sense with the preceding, and should not have been separated from it. The great object is to illustrate the subject which was commenced in the previous chapter Ephesians 2:19 - the greatness of the power of God, evinced in the salvation of his people. The “great” manifestation of his power had been in raising up the Lord Jesus from the dead. That had been connected with and followed by their resurrection from the death of sin; and the one had involved the exercise of a power similar to the other. In the illustration of this main idea, the apostle observes, Ephesians 2:1 that God had quickened those who had been dead in trespasses and sins, and proceeds Ephesians 2:2-3 to show the condition in which they were before their conversion. He then observes Ephesians 2:4-7, that God of his infinite mercy, when they were dead in sin, had quickened them together with Christ, and had raised them up to sit with him in heavenly places.He then states that this was not by human power, but was the work of divine power, and that they were the workmanship of God, Ephesians 2:8-10. The remainder of the chapter Ephesians 2:11-22 is occupied with a statement of the privileges resulting from the mercy of God in calling them into his kingdom. The apostle endeavors to impress their minds strongly with a sense of the mercy and love and power of God in thus calling them to himself. He reminds them of their former condition when Gentiles, as being without God, and that they were now brought near by the blood of Christ Ephesians 2:11-13; he states that this had been done by one great Mediator, who came to break down the wall of partition between the Jews and Gentiles, and who had now made both one Ephesians 2:14-18; and he compares them now to a temple raised for God, and to constitute the place of his dwelling on the earth; Ephesians 2:19-22. By all these considerations he endeavors to impress their minds with a sense of obligation, and to lead them to devote themselves to that God who had raised them from the dead, and had breathed into them the breath of immortal life.