Verse Philemon 1:2. APPHIA. απφια. Under the word απφα Suidas says: Αδελφης και αδελφου ὑπακορισμα· Appha is the affectionate address of a brother or sister; or the diminutive of a brother and sister, used to express kindness and affection. Hence the apostle, referring to the meaning of the word, says: Και Απφιᾳ τῃ αδελφῃ αγαπητῃ· And to Apphia the beloved sister. Though αδελοη sister, be not in our common text, it is found in AD*EFG, several others, the Itala, Vulgate, Slavonic, c. and is undoubtedly genuine.ARCHIPPUS, αρχιπηος. The ruler or master of the horse; from αρχων, a chief, and ιππος, a horse. HEROES of old were, both among the Greeks and Trojans, celebrated for their skill in managing and taming the horse, and employing him in war; this frequently occurs in Homer. The import of the name of Archippus might suggest this idea to the apostle's mind, and lead him to say: Archippus our FELLOW SOLDIER.Suidas mentions a person of this name, who was once victor at the games, in the ninety-first Olympiad.There was one of the pupils of Pythagoras of this name; and I introduce him here for the sake of a quotation from St. Jerome, (Apol. adv. Ruffin.,) relative to the doctrines taught by him and his fellow disciple, Lysis: Φευκτεον πανταπασι και εκκοπτεον ασθενειαν μεν του σωματος, απαιδευσιαν δε της ψυχης, ακολασιαν δε της γαστρος, στασιν δε της πολεως, την δε διαφωνιαν απο της οικιας, και κοινῃ απο παντων το ακρατες· "By all means and methods these evils are to be shunned and cut off: effeminacy from the body; IGNORANCE from the soul; delicacies from the belly; sedition from the city; discord from the house; and, in general, intemperance from all things." Vid. FAB. Thes. Erud. Schol.ONESIMUS, ονησιμος. Useful or profitable; from ονημι, to help. The import of this name led the apostle to play upon the word thus: I beseech thee for any son Onesimus - which in time past was to thee UNPROFITABLE, but now PROFITABLE to thee and me.To the Church in thy house — The congregation of Christians frequently assembling in Philemon's house; for at this time the Christians had neither temples, churches, nor chapels. Romans 16:5, and the reference there.It is very probable that Apphia was the wife of Philemon, and Archippus, their son, the pastor of the Church at Philemon's house.