Verse Matthew 23:37. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem —1. It is evident that our blessed Lord seriously and earnestly wished the salvation of the Jews.2. That he did every thing that could be done, consistently with his own perfections, and the liberty of his creatures, to effect this.3. That his tears over the city, Luke 19:41, sufficiently evince his sincerity.4. That these persons nevertheless perished. And5. That the reason was, they would not be gathered together under his protection: therefore wrath, i.e. punishment, came upon them to the uttermost.From this it is evident that there have been persons whom Christ wished to save, and bled to save, who notwithstanding perished, because they would not come unto him, John 5:40. The metaphor which our Lord uses here is a very beautiful one. When the hen sees a beast of prey coming, she makes a noise to assemble her chickens, that she may cover them with her wings from the danger. The Roman eagle is about to fall upon the Jewish state - nothing can prevent this but their conversion to God through Christ-Jesus cries throughout the land, publishing the Gospel of reconciliation - they would not assemble, and the Roman eagle came and destroyed them. The hen's affection to her brood is so very strong as to become proverbial. The following beautiful Greek epigram, taken from the Anthologia, affords a very fine illustration of this text.  Χειμεριαις νιφαδεσσι παλυνομενα τιθας ορνις Τεκνοις ευναιας αμφεχεε πτερυγας Μεσφα μεν ουρανιον κρυος ωλεσεν η γαρ εμεινεν Αιθερος ουρανιων αντιπαλος νεφεων. Προκνη και Μεδεια, κατ' αΐδος αιδεσθητε, Μητερες, ορνιθων εργα διδασκομεναι Anthol. lib. i. Tit. 87: edit. Bosch. p. 344.  Beneath her fostering wing the HEN defends Her darling offspring, while the snow descends; Throughout the winter's day unmoved defies The chilling fleeces and inclement skies; Till, vanquish'd by the cold and piercing blast, True to her charge, she perishes at last! O Fame! to hell this fowl's affection bear; Tell it to Progne and Medea there: - To mothers such as those the tale unfold, And let them blush to hear the story told! - T. G.  This epigram contains a happy illustration, not only of our Lord's simile, but also of his own conduct. How long had these thankless and unholy people been the objects of his tenderest cares! For more than 2000 years, they engrossed the most peculiar regards of the most beneficent Providence; and during the three years of our Lord's public ministry, his preaching and miracles had but one object and aim, the instruction and salvation of this thoughtless and disobedient people. For their sakes, he who was rich became poor, that they through his poverty might be rich: -  for their sakes, he made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross! HE died, that THEY might not perish, but have everlasting life. Thus, to save their life, he freely abandoned his own.