25. Who was delivered for—"on
	account of." 
	our offences—that is,
	in order to expiate them by His blood. 
	and raised again for—"on
	account of," that is, in order to. 
	our justification—As
	His resurrection was the divine assurance that He had "put away
	sin by the sacrifice of Himself," and the crowning of His whole
	work, our justification is fitly connected with that glorious act. 
	Note, (1) The doctrine of
	justification by works, as it generates self-exaltation, is contrary
	to the first principles of all true religion ( :-; and see on  :-,
	Note 1). (2) The way of a sinner's justification has been the
	same in all time, and the testimony of the Old Testament on this
	subject is one with that of the New ( :-, c., and see on  :-,
	Note 1). (3) Faith and works, in the matter of justification,
	are opposite and irreconcilable, even as grace and debt (Romans 4:4
Romans 4:5; and see on Romans 4:5- :). If God "justifies the ungodly," works cannot be,
	in any sense or to any degree, the ground of justification. For the
	same reason, the first requisite, in order to justification, must be
	(under the conviction that we are "ungodly") to despair of
	it by works; and the next, to "believe in Him that justifieth
	the ungodly"—that hath a justifying righteousness to bestow,
	and is ready to bestow it upon those who deserve none, and to embrace
	it accordingly. (4) The sacraments of the Church were never intended,
	and are not adapted, to confer grace, or the blessings of
	salvation, upon men. Their proper use is to set a divine seal
	upon a state already existing, and so, they presuppose,
	and do not create it (Romans 4:5- :). As circumcision merely "sealed" Abraham's
	already existing acceptance with God, so with the sacraments of the
	New Testament. (5) As Abraham is "the heir of the world,"
	all nations being blessed in him, through his Seed Christ Jesus, and
	justified solely according to the pattern of his faith, so the
	transmission of the true religion and all the salvation which the
	world will ever experience shall yet be traced back with wonder,
	gratitude, and joy, to that morning dawn when "the God of glory
	appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before
	he dwelt in Charran," Acts 7:2
	(Romans 4:13). (6) Nothing gives
	more glory to God than simple faith in His word, especially when all
	things seem to render the fulfilment of it hopeless (Romans 4:13- :). (7) All the Scripture examples of faith were recorded
	on purpose to beget and encourage the like faith in every succeeding
	age (Romans 4:23; Romans 4:24;
	and compare Romans 15:4). (8)
	Justification, in this argument, cannot be taken—as
	Romanists and other errorists insist—to mean a change upon men's
	character; for besides that this is to confound it with
	Sanctification, which has its appropriate place in this
	Epistle, the whole argument of the present chapter—and nearly all
	its more important clauses, expressions, and words—would in that
	case be unsuitable, and fitted only to mislead. Beyond all doubt it
	means exclusively a change upon men's state or relation to
	God; or, in scientific language, it is an objective, not a
	subjective change—a change from guilt and condemnation to
	acquittal and acceptance. And the best evidence that this is the key
	to the whole argument is, that it opens all the wards of the
	many-chambered lock with which the apostle has enriched us in this
	Epistle.