 Help  (βοηθειτε). Present active imperative of βοηθεω, to run (θεω) at a cry (βοη), as if an outrage had been committed like murder or assault.All men everywhere  (παντα πανταχη). Alliterative. Πανταχη is a variation in MSS., often πανταχου, and here only in the N.T. The charges against Paul remind one of those against Stephen (Acts 6:13) in which Paul had participated according to his confession (Acts 22:20). Like the charges against Stephen and Jesus before him truth and falsehood are mixed. Paul had said that being a Jew would not save a man. He had taught the law of Moses was not binding on Gentiles. He did hold, like Jesus and Stephen, that the temple was not the only place to worship God. But Paul gloried himself in being a Jew, considered the Mosaic law righteous for Jews, and was honouring the temple at this very moment.And moreover also he brought Greeks also into the temple  (ετ τε κα Hελληνας εισηγαγεν εις το ιερον). Note the three particles (ετ τε κα),and  (τε)still more  (ετ)also  oreven  (κα). Worse than his teaching (διδασκων) is his dreadful deed: he actually brought (εισηγαγεν, second aorist active indicative of εισαγω). This he had a right to do if they only went into the court of the Gentiles. But these Jews mean to imply that Paul had brought Greeks beyond this court into the court of Israel. An inscription was found by Clermont-Ganneau in Greek built into the walls of a mosque on the Via Dolorosa that was on the wall dividing the court of Israel from the court of the Gentiles. Death was the penalty to any Gentile who crossed over into the Court of Israel (The Athenaeum, July, 1871).Hath defiled this holy place  (κεκοινωκεν τον αγιον τοπον τουτον). Present perfect active of κοινοω, to make common (see on Acts 10:14). Note vivid change of tense, the defilement lasts (state of completion). All this is the substance of the call of these shrewd conspirators from Ephesus, Jews (not Jewish Christians, not even Judaizers) who hated him for his work there and who probably "spoke evil of the Way before the multitude" there so that Paul had to separate the disciples from the synagogue and go to the School of Tyrannus (Acts 19:9). These enemies of Paul had now raised the cry of "fire" and vanish from the scene completely (Acts 24:19). This charge was absolutely false as we shall see, made out of inferences of hate and suspicion. 