6. Without the usual expressions
	of thanksgiving for their faith, c., he vehemently plunges into his
	subject, zealous for "the glory" of God ( :-), which was being disparaged by the Galatians falling away
	from the pure Gospel of the "grace" of God. 
	I marvel—implying that
	he had hoped better things from them, whence his sorrowful surprise
	at their turning out so different from his expectations. 
	so soon—after my last
	visit when I hoped and thought you were untainted by the Judaizing
	teachers. If this Epistle was written from Corinth, the interval
	would be a little more than three years, which would be "soon"
	to have fallen away, if they were apparently sound at the time of his
	visit. Galatians 4:18; Galatians 4:20
	may imply that he saw no symptom of unsoundness then, such as
	he hears of in them now. But English Version is
	probably not correct there. See see on Galatians 4:20- :; Galatians 4:20; also see
	Galatians 4:20- : If from Ephesus, the
	interval would be not more than one year. BIRKS
	holds the Epistle to have been written from Corinth after his FIRST
	visit to Galatia; for this agrees best with the "so soon"
	here: with Galatians 4:18, "It is
	good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only
	when I am present with you." If they had persevered in the faith
	during three years of his first absence, and only turned aside after
	his second visit, they could not be charged justly with adhering to
	the truth only when he was present: for his first absence was longer
	than both his visits, and they would have obeyed longer in his
	"absence" than in his "presence."
	But if their decline had begun immediately after he left them, and
	before his return to them, the reproof will be just. But see on Galatians 4:18- :. 
	removed—Translate, "are
	being removed," that is, ye are suffering yourselves so soon
	(whether from the time of my last visit, or from the time of the
	first temptation held out to you) [PARÆUS]
	to be removed by Jewish seducers. Thus he softens the censure
	by implying that the Galatians were tempted by seducers from without,
	with whom the chief guilt lay: and the present, "ye are being
	removed," implies that their seduction was only in process of
	being effected, not that it was actually effected. WAHL,
	ALFORD, and others take
	the Greek as middle voice. "ye are removing" or
	"passing over." "Shifting your ground" [CONYBEARE
	and HOWSON]. But thus the
	point of Paul's oblique reference to their misleaders is lost; and in
	Hebrews 7:12 the Greek is
	used passively, justifying its being taken so here. On the
	impulsiveness and fickleness of the Gauls (another form of Kel-t-s,
	the progenitors of the Erse, Gauls, Cymri, and Belgians), whence the
	Galatians sprang, see Hebrews 7:12- :
	and CÆSAR [Commentaries
	on the Gallic War, 3.19]. 
	from him that called you—God
	the Father (Galatians 1:15; Galatians 5:8;
	Romans 8:30; 1 Corinthians 1:9;
	1 Thessalonians 2:12; 1 Thessalonians 5:24).
	into—rather, as Greek,
	"IN the grace of
	Christ," as the element in which, and the instrument
	by which, God calls us to salvation. Compare Note, see on
	1 Thessalonians 5:24- :; 1 Thessalonians 5:24- :, "the gift by (Greek, 'in') grace (Greek,
	'the grace') of (the) one man." "The grace of
	Christ," is Christ's gratuitously purchased and bestowed
	justification, reconciliation, and eternal life. 
	another—rather, as
	Greek, "a second and different gospel," that
	is, into a so-called gospel, different altogether from the
	only true Gospel.