10. The magnitude of this
	"salvation" is proved by the earnestness with which
	"prophets" and even "angels" searched into it.
	Even from the beginning of the world this salvation has been
	testified to by the Holy Spirit. 
	prophets—Though there
	is no Greek article, yet English Version is right, "the
	prophets" generally (including all the Old Testament inspired
	authors), as "the angels" similarly refer to them in
	general. 
	inquired—perseveringly:
	so the Greek. Much more is manifested to us than by diligent
	inquiry and search the prophets attained. Still it is not said, they
	searched after it, but concerning (so the Greek
	for "of") it. They were already certain of the redemption
	being about to come. They did not like us fully see, but they
	desired to see the one and the same Christ whom we fully see
	in spirit. "As Simeon was anxiously desiring previously, and
	tranquil in peace only when he had seen Christ, so all the Old
	Testament saints saw Christ only hidden, and as it were absent—absent
	not in power and grace, but inasmuch as He was not yet manifested in
	the flesh" [CALVIN].
	The prophets, as private individuals, had to reflect on the
	hidden and far-reaching sense of their own prophecies; because their
	words, as prophets, in their public function, were not so much
	their own as the Spirit's, speaking by and in them: thus Caiaphas. A
	striking testimony to verbal inspiration; the words which the
	inspired authors wrote are God's words expressing the mind of the
	Spirit, which the writers themselves searched into, to fathom the
	deep and precious meaning, even as the believing readers did.
	"Searched" implies that they had determinate marks to go by
	in their search. 
	the grace that should come
	unto you—namely, the grace of the New Testament: an earnest of
	"the grace" of perfected "salvation . . . to be
	brought at the (second) revelation of Christ." Old Testament
	believers also possessed the grace of God; they were children of God,
	but it was as children in their nonage, so as to be like servants;
	whereas we enjoy the full privileges of adult sons.