1. Peter—Greek form of
	Cephas, man of rock.
an apostle of Jesus
	Christ—"He who preaches otherwise than as a messenger of
	Christ, is not to be heard; if he preach as such, then it is all one
	as if thou didst hear Christ speaking in thy presence" [LUTHER].
	to the strangers
	scattered—literally, "sojourners of the dispersion";
	only in John 7:35; James 1:1,
	in New Testament, and the Septuagint, James 1:1- :, "the outcasts of Israel"; the designation
	peculiarly given to the Jews in their dispersed state
	throughout the world ever since the Babylonian captivity. These he,
	as the apostle of the circumcision, primarily addresses, but not in
	the limited temporal sense only; he regards their temporal condition
	as a shadow of their spiritual calling to be strangers and
	pilgrims on earth, looking for the heavenly Jerusalem as their home.
	So the Gentile Christians, as the spiritual Israel, are
	included secondarily, as having the same high calling. He (1 Peter 1:14;
	1 Peter 2:10; 1 Peter 4:3)
	plainly refers to Christian Gentiles (compare 1 Peter 1:17;
	1 Peter 2:11). Christians, if they
	rightly consider their calling, must never settle themselves here,
	but feel themselves travellers. As the Jews in their
	dispersion diffused through the nations the knowledge of the
	one God, preparatory to Christ's first advent, so Christians, by
	their dispersion among the unconverted, diffuse the knowledge of
	Christ, preparatory to His second advent. "The children of God
	scattered abroad" constitute one whole in Christ, who "gathers
	them together in one," now partially and in Spirit, hereafter
	perfectly and visibly. "Elect," in the Greek order,
	comes before "strangers"; elect, in relation to
	heaven, strangers, in relation to the earth. The election
	here is that of individuals to eternal life by the sovereign grace of
	God, as the sequel shows. "While each is certified of his own
	election by the Spirit, he receives no assurance concerning others,
	nor are we to be too inquisitive [John 21:21;
	John 21:22]; Peter numbers them
	among the elect, as they carried the appearance of having been
	regenerated" [CALVIN].
	He calls the whole Church by the designation strictly belonging only
	to the better portion of them [CALVIN].
	The election to hearing, and that to eternal life, are
	distinct. Realization of our election is a strong motive to holiness.
	The minister invites all, yet he does not hide the truth that in none
	but the elect will the preaching effect eternal blessing. As the
	chief fruit of exhortations, and even of threatenings, redounds to
	"the elect"; therefore, at the outset, Peter addresses
	them. STEIGER
	translates, to "the elect pilgrims who form the dispersion in
	Pontus.", c. The order of the provinces is that in which
	they would be viewed by one writing from the east from Babylon
	(1 Peter 5:13) from northeast
	southwards to Galatia, southeast to Cappadocia, then Asia, and back
	to Bithynia, west of Pontus. Contrast the order, 1 Peter 5:13- :. He now was ministering to those same peoples as he preached
	to on Pentecost: "Parthians, Medes, Elamites, dwellers in
	Mesopotamia and Judea," that is, the Jews now subject to the
	Parthians, whose capital was Babylon, where he labored in
	person; "dwellers in Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia, Phrygia,
	Bithynia," the Asiatic dispersion derived from Babylon, whom he
	ministers to by letter.