2. foreknowledge—foreordaining
	love (1 Peter 1:20), inseparable
	from God's foreknowledge, the origin from which, and
	pattern according to which, election takes place. Acts 2:23;
	Romans 11:2, prove "foreknowledge"
	to be foreordination. God's foreknowledge is not the
	perception of any ground of action out of Himself; still in it
	liberty is comprehended, and all absolute constraint debarred [ANSELM
	in STEIGER]. For so the
	Son of God was "foreknown" (so the Greek for
	"foreordained," 1 Peter 1:20)
	to be the sacrificial Lamb, not against, or without His will, but His
	will rested in the will of the Father; this includes self-conscious
	action; nay, even cheerful acquiescense. The Hebrew and Greek
	"know" include approval and acknowledging as
	one's own. The Hebrew marks the oneness of loving and
	choosing, by having one word for both, bachar (Greek,
	"hairetizo," Septuagint). Peter descends from
	the eternal "election" of God through the new birth,
	to the believer's "sanctification," that from this he might
	again raise them through the consideration of their new birth
	to a "living hope" of the heavenly "inheritance"
	[HEIDEGGER]. The divine
	three are introduced in their respective functions in redemption. 
	through—Greek,
	"in"; the element in which we are elected. The "election"
	of God realized and manifested itself "IN"
	their sanctification. Believers are "sanctified through the
	offering of Christ once for all" (1 Peter 1:20- :). "Thou must believe and know that thou art holy; not,
	however, through thine own piety, but through the blood of Christ"
	[LUTHER]. This is the true
	sanctification of the Spirit, to obey the Gospel, to trust in Christ
	[BULLINGER]. 
	sanctification—the
	Spirit's setting apart of the saint as consecrated to God. The
	execution of God's choice (1 Peter 1:20- :). God the Father gives us salvation by gratuitous election;
	the Son earns it by His blood-shedding; the Holy Spirit applies the
	merit of the Son to the soul by the Gospel word [CALVIN].
	Compare Numbers 6:24-26, the
	Old Testament triple blessing. 
	unto obedience—the
	result or end aimed at by God as respects us, the obedience
	which consists in faith, and that which flows from faith; "obeying
	the truth through the Spirit" (Numbers 6:24-4.6.26- :). Romans 1:5, "obedience
	to the faith," and obedience the fruit of faith. 
	sprinkling, c.—not in
	justification through the atonement once for all, which is expressed
	in the previous clauses, but (as the order proves) the daily being
	sprinkled by Christ's blood, and so cleansed from all sin, which
	is the privilege of one already justified and "walking in the
	light." 
	Grace—the source of
	"peace." 
	be multiplied—still
	further than already. Daniel 4:1,
	"Ye have now peace and grace, but still not in perfection
	therefore, ye must go on increasing until the old Adam be dead"
	[LUTHER].