23. Christian brotherhood flows
	from our new birth of an imperishable seed, the abiding word of God.
	This is the consideration urged here to lead us to exercise brotherly
	love. As natural relationship gives rise to natural affection, so
	spiritual relationship gives rise to spiritual, and therefore abiding
	love, even as the seed from which it springs is abiding, not
	transitory as earthly things. 
	of . . . of . . . by—"The
	word of God" is not the material of the spiritual new birth, but
	its mean or medium. By means of the word the man receives the
	incorruptible seed of the Holy Spirit, and so becomes one
	"born again":  :-, "born of water and the Spirit": as there
	is but one Greek article to the two nouns, the close
	connection of the sign and the grace, or new birth signified is
	implied. The word is the remote and anterior instrument;
	baptism, the proximate and sacramental instrument. The word is
	the instrument in relation to the individual; baptism, in relation to
	the Church as a society (James 1:18).
	We are born again of the Spirit, yet not without the use of
	means, but by the word of God. The word is not the beggeting
	principle itself, but only that by which it works: the vehicle of the
	mysterious germinating power [ALFORD].
	which liveth and abideth for
	ever—It is because the Spirit of God accompanies it that the
	word carries in it the germ of life. They who are so born again live
	and abide for ever, in contrast to those who sow to the flesh.
	"The Gospel bears incorruptible fruits, not dead works, because
	it is itself incorruptible" [BENGEL].
	The word is an eternal divine power. For though the voice or speech
	vanishes, there still remains the kernel, the truth comprehended in
	the voice. This sinks into the heart and is living; yea, it is God
	Himself. So God to Moses, Exodus 4:12,
	"I will be with thy mouth" [LUTHER].
	The life is in God, yet it is communicated to us through the
	word. "The Gospel shall never cease, though its
	ministry shall" [CALOVIUS].
	The abiding resurrection glory is always connected with our
	regeneration by the Spirit. Regeneration beginning with
	renewing man's soul at the resurrection, passes on to the
	body, then to the whole world of nature.