2. Do ye not know—as a truth
	universally recognized by Christians. Notwithstanding all your
	glorying in your "knowledge," ye are acting contrary to it
	(1 Corinthians 1:4; 1 Corinthians 1:5;
	1 Corinthians 8:1). The oldest manuscripts
	have "Or" before "know ye not"; that is, "What!
	(expressing surprise) know ye not," c. 
	saints . . . judge—that
	is, "rule," including judgment: as assessors of
	Christ. Matthew 19:28, "judging,"
	that is, "ruling over." (Compare Psalms 49:14
Daniel 7:22; Daniel 7:27;
	Revelation 2:26; Revelation 3:21;
	Revelation 20:4). There is a distinction
	drawn by able expositors between the saints who judge or rule,
	and the world which is ruled by them: as there is between the elected
	(Matthew 20:23) twelve apostles who
	sit on thrones judging, and the twelve tribes of Israel that are
	judged by them. To reign, and to be saved, are not
	necessarily synonymous. As Jehovah employed angels to carry the law
	into effect when He descended on Sinai to establish His throne in
	Israel, so at His coming the saints shall administer the kingdom for,
	and under, Him. The nations of the earth, and Israel the foremost, in
	the flesh, shall, in this view, be the subjects of the rule of
	the Lord and His saints in glorified bodies. The mistake of the
	Chiliasts was that they took the merely carnal view, restricting the
	kingdom to the terrestrial part. This part shall have place with the
	accession of spiritual and temporal blessings such as Christ's
	presence must produce. Besides this earthly glory, there shall be the
	heavenly glory of the saints reigning in transfigured bodies, and
	holding such blessed intercourse with mortal men, as angels had with
	men of old, and as Christ, Moses, and Elias, in glory had with Peter,
	James, and John, in the flesh at the transfiguration (2 Timothy 2:12;
	2 Peter 1:16-18). But here the
	"world" seems to be the unbelieving world that is to be
	"condemned" (1 Corinthians 11:22),
	rather than the whole world, including the subject nations which are
	to be brought under Christ's sway; however, it may include both
	those to be condemned, with the bad angels, and those about to be
	brought into obedience to the sway of Christ with His saints. Compare
	Matthew 25:32; Matthew 25:40,
	"all nations," "these my brethren" on the thrones
	with Him. The event will decide the truth of this view. 
	judged by you—or,
	before you (compare Matthew 25:40- :). 
	smallest matters—The
	weightiest of earthly questions at issue are infinitely small
	compared with those to be decided on the judgment-day.