− 9.And I truly. If Paul had not spoken more things than those which Luke hath hitherto recited, his speech had not hanged well together. − (614) Whence we prove that which was said before, that after that he had spoken of the covenant of God, he intreated of the grace and office of Christ, as the matter required. And he repeateth the history of his conversion for this cause, not only that he may remove from himself all suspicion of lightness, but that he may testify that God had called him, and that he was even enforced by a commandment coming from heaven. For, seeing that he was, contrary to his expectation, suddenly made a sheep of a wolf, such a violent change is of no small importance to purchase credit to his doctrine. − Therefore, he amplifieth that his heat and vehement desire which he had to punish − (615) the members of Christ, and also that stubbornness whereunto he was wholly given over. If he had been nousled [brought] up in the faith of Christ from his youth, or if he had been taught by some man, he should have embraced it willingly and without resistance, he himself should have been sure of his calling, but it should not have been so well known to others. But now, seeing that being inflamed with obstinate and immoderate fury, being moved with no occasion, neither persuaded by mortal man, he changeth his mind, it appeareth that he was tamed and brought under by the hand of God. − Therefore, this contrariety is of great weight, − (616) in that he saith that he was so puffed up with pride, that he thought he should get the victory of Christ, whereby he teacheth that he was nothing less than made − (617) a disciple of Christ through his own industry. The name of Jesus of Nazareth is taken in this place for the whole profession of the gospel, which Paul sought to extinguish, by making war ignorantly against God, as we may see. − (618) − (614) − “ Abrupta esset,” would have been abrupt. (615) − “ Nocendi,” to persecute (616) − “ Magnum ergo pondus habet ista antithesis,” there is a great force, therefore, in the antithesis. (617) − “ Nihil minus... quam factum,” that he was by no means made. (618) − “ Hoc modo,” in this way. 