39-44. Jesus said, Take ye away the
	stone—spoken to the attendants of Martha and Mary; for it was a
	work of no little labor [GROTIUS].
	According to the Talmudists, it was forbidden to open a grave after
	the stone was placed upon it. Besides other dangers, they were
	apprehensive of legal impurity by contact with the dead. Hence they
	avoided coming nearer a grave than four cubits [MAIMONIDES
	in LAMPE]. But He who
	touched the leper, and the bier of the widow of Nain's son, rises
	here also above these Judaic memorials of evils, every one of which
	He had come to roll away. Observe here what our Lord did Himself,
	and what He made others do. As Elijah himself repaired the altar
	on Carmel, arranged the wood, cut the victim, and placed the pieces
	on the fuel, but made the by-standers fill the surrounding trench
	with water, that no suspicion might arise of fire having been
	secretly applied to the pile ( :-); so our Lord would let the most skeptical see that,
	without laying a hand on the stone that covered His friend, He could
	recall him to life. But what could be done by human hand He orders to
	be done, reserving only to Himself what transcended the ability of
	all creatures. 
	Martha, the sister of . . .
	the dead—and as such the proper guardian of the precious
	remains; the relationship being here mentioned to account for
	her venturing gently to remonstrate against their exposure, in a
	state of decomposition, to eyes that had loved him so tenderly in
	life. 
	Lord, by this time he
	stinketh, for he hath been dead four days—(See on  :-). It is wrong to suppose from this (as LAMPE
	and others do) that, like the by-standers, she had not thought of his
	restoration to life. But the glimmerings of hope which she cherished
	from the first (John 11:22),
	and which had been brightened by what Jesus said to her (John 11:22- :), had suffered a momentary eclipse on the proposal to
	expose the now sightless corpse. To such fluctuations all real
	faith is subject in dark hours. (See, for example, the case of
	Job).