2. But—Greek, "And."
	the court . . . without—all
	outside the Holy Place ( :-). 
	leave out—of thy
	measurement, literally, "cast out"; reckon as unhallowed. 
	it—emphatic. It
	is not to be measured; whereas the Holy Place is. 
	given—by God's
	appointment. 
	unto the Gentiles—In
	the wider sense, there are meant here "the times of the
	Gentiles," wherein Jerusalem is "trodden down of the
	Gentiles," as the parallel,  :-, proves; for the same word is used here [Greek,
	"patein"], "tread under foot." Compare
	also Psalms 79:1; Isaiah 63:18.
	forty . . . two months—
	(Revelation 13:5). The same period as
	Daniel's "time, times, and half" (Revelation 13:5- :); and Revelation 11:3; Revelation 12:6,
	the woman a fugitive in the wilderness "a thousand two hundred
	and threescore days." In the wider sense, we may either adopt
	the year-day theory of 1260 years (on which, and the papal rule of
	1260 years, see on Revelation 12:6- :; Revelation 12:6- :; Revelation 12:6- :), or rather,
	regard the 2300 days (Daniel 8:14),
	1335 days (Daniel 12:11; Daniel 12:12).
	1290 days, and 1260 days, as symbolical of the long period of the
	Gentile times, whether dating from the subversion of the Jewish
	theocracy at the Babylonian captivity (the kingdom having been
	never since restored to Israel), or from the last destruction of
	Jerusalem under Titus, and extending to the restoration of the
	theocracy at the coming of Him "whose right it is"; the
	different epochs marked by the 2300, 1335, 1290, and 1260 days, will
	not be fully cleared up till the grand consummation; but, meanwhile,
	our duty and privilege urge us to investigate them. Some one of the
	epochs assigned by many may be right but as yet it is uncertain. The
	times of the Gentile monarchies during Israel's seven times
	punishment, will probably, in the narrower sense (Daniel 12:12- :), be succeeded by the much more restricted times of the
	personal Antichrist's tyranny in the Holy Land. The long years of
	papal misrule may be followed by the short time of the man of sin who
	shall concentrate in himself all the apostasy, persecution, and evil
	of the various forerunning Antichrists, Antiochus, Mohammed, Popery,
	just before Christ's advent. His time shall be THE
	RECAPITULATION and open consummation of the "mystery of
	iniquity" so long leavening the world. Witnessing churches may
	be followed by witnessing individuals, the former occupying the
	longer, the latter, the shorter period. The three and a half
	(1260 days being three and a half years of three hundred sixty days
	each, during which the two witnesses prophesy in sackcloth) is the
	sacred number seven halved, implying the Antichristian
	world-power's time is broken at best; it answers to the three and
	a half years' period in which Christ witnessed for the truth, and
	the Jews, His own people, disowned Him, and the God-opposed world
	power crucified Him (compare Note, see on Daniel 12:12- :). The three and a half, in a word, marks the time in which
	the earthly rules over the heavenly kingdom. It was the duration of
	Antiochus' treading down of the temple and persecution of faithful
	Israelites. The resurrection of the witnesses after three and a half
	days, answers to Christ's resurrection after three days. The world
	power's times never reach the sacred fulness of seven times three
	hundred sixty, that is, 2520, though they approach to it in 2300 (Daniel 12:12- :). The forty-two months answer to Israel's forty-two
	sojournings (Numbers 33:1-50)
	in the wilderness, as contrasted with the sabbatic rest in Canaan:
	reminding the Church that here, in the world wilderness, she cannot
	look for her sabbatic rest. Also, three and a half years was the
	period of the heaven being shut up, and of consequent famine, in
	Elias' time. Thus, three and a half represented to the Church the
	idea of toil, pilgrimage, and persecution.