13. "In that same hour";
	literally, "the hour." 
	great earthquake—answering
	to the "great earthquake" under the sixth seal, just at the
	approach of the Lord (Revelation 6:12).
	Christ was delivered unto His enemies on the fifth day of the week,
	and on the sixth was crucified, and on the sabbath rested; so
	it is under the sixth seal and sixth trumpet that the last suffering
	of the Church, begun under the fifth seal and trumpet, is to be
	consummated, before she enters on her seventh day of eternal sabbath.
	Six is the number of the world power's greatest triumph, but
	at the same time verges on seven, the divine number, when its
	utter destruction takes place. Compare "666" in Revelation 6:12- :, "the number of the beast." 
	tenth part of the city
	fell—that is, of "the great city" (Revelation 16:19;
	Zechariah 14:2). Ten is the number of
	the world kingdoms (Zechariah 14:2- :), and the beast's horns (Zechariah 14:2- :), and the dragon's (Zechariah 14:2- :). Thus, in the Church-historical view, it is hereby implied
	that one of the ten apostate world kingdoms fall. But in the narrower
	view a tenth of Jerusalem under Antichrist falls. The nine-tenths
	remain and become when purified the center of Christ's earthly
	kingdom. 
	of men—Greek,
	"names of men." The men are as accurately enumerated as if
	their names were given. 
	seven thousand—ELLIOTT
	interprets seven chiliads or provinces, that is, the seven
	Dutch United Provinces lost to the papacy; and "names of men,"
	titles of dignity, duchies, lordships, c. Rather, seven thousand
	combine the two mystical perfect and comprehensive numbers seven
	and thousand, implying the full and complete
	destruction of the impenitent. 
	the remnant—consisting
	of the Israelite inhabitants not slain. Their conversion forms a
	blessed contrast to Revelation 16:9 and
	above, Revelation 9:20; Revelation 9:21.
	These repenting (Zechariah 12:10-14;
	Zechariah 13:1), become in the flesh
	the loyal subjects of Christ reigning over the earth with His
	transfigured saints. 
	gave glory to the God of
	heaven—which while apostates, and worshipping the beast's
	image, they had not done. 
	God of heaven—The
	apostates of the last days, in pretended scientific enlightenment,
	recognize no heavenly power, but only the natural forces in
	the earth which come under their observation. His receiving up into
	heaven the two witnesses who had power during their
	time on earth to shut heaven from raining (Zechariah 13:1- :), constrained His and their enemies who witnessed it, to
	acknowledge the God of heaven, to be God of the earth
	(Revelation 11:4). As in Revelation 11:4- : He declared Himself to be God of the earth by His two
	witnesses, so now He proves Himself to be God of heaven also.