3. I will give power
—There is no "power" in the Greek, so that
	"give" must mean "give commission," or
	some such word. 
	my two witnesses—Greek,
	"the two witnesses of me." The article implies that
	the two were well known at least to John. 
	prophesy—preach under
	the inspiration of the Spirit, denouncing judgments against the
	apostate. They are described by symbol as "the two olive trees"
	and "the two candlesticks," or lamp-stands,
	"standing before the God of the earth." The reference is to
	Zechariah 4:3; Zechariah 4:12,
	where two individuals are meant, Joshua and Zerubbabel, who
	ministered to the Jewish Church, just as the two olive trees emptied
	the oil out of themselves into the bowl of the candlestick. So in the
	final apostasy God will raise up two inspired witnesses to minister
	encouragement to the afflicted, though sealed, remnant. As two
	candlesticks are mentioned in Zechariah 4:12- :, but only one in Zechariah 4:12- :, I think the twofold Church, Jewish and Gentile, may be meant
	by the two candlesticks represented by the two witnesses: just as in
	Revelation 7:1-8 there are
	described first the sealed of Israel, then those of all nations. But
	see on Revelation 11:1. The actions of
	the two witnesses are just those of Moses when witnessing for God
	against Pharaoh (the type of Antichrist, the last and greatest foe of
	Israel), turning the waters into blood, and smiting
	with plagues; and of Elijah (the witness for God in an almost
	universal apostasy of Israel, a remnant of seven thousand, however,
	being left, as the 144,000 sealed, Revelation 11:1- :) causing fire by his word to devour the enemy,
	and shutting heaven, so that it rained not for three years and six
	months, the very time (1260 days) during which the two witnesses
	prophesy. Moreover, the words "witness" and "prophesy"
	are usually applied to individuals, not to abstractions
	(compare Psalms 52:8). DE
	BURGH thinks Elijah and
	Moses will again appear, as Malachi 4:5;
	Malachi 4:6 seems to imply (compare
	Matthew 17:11; Acts 3:21).
	Moses and Elijah appeared with Christ at the Transfiguration, which
	foreshadowed His coming millennial kingdom. As to Moses, compare
	Deuteronomy 34:5; Deuteronomy 34:6;
	Judges 1:9. Elias' genius and mode of
	procedure bears the same relation to the "second" coming of
	Christ, that John the Baptist's did to the first coming [BENGEL].
	Many of the early Church thought the two witnesses to be Enoch and
	Elijah. This would avoid the difficulty of the dying a second
	time, for these have never yet died; but, perhaps, shall be the
	witnesses slain. Still, the turning the water to blood, and the
	plagues (Revelation 11:6), apply
	best to "Moses (compare Revelation 11:6- :, the song of Moses"). The transfiguration glory
	of Moses and Elias was not their permanent resurrection-state, which
	shall not be till Christ shall come to glorify His saints, for He has
	precedence before all in rising. An objection to this interpretation
	is that those blessed departed servants of God would have to submit
	to death (Revelation 11:7; Revelation 11:8),
	and this in Moses' case a second time, which Revelation 11:8- : denies. See on Revelation 11:8- :,
	on the two witnesses as answering to "the two olive trees."
	The two olive trees are channels of the oil feeding the Church, and
	symbols of peace. The Holy Spirit is the oil in them. Christ's
	witnesses, in remarkable times of the Church's history, have
	generally appeared in pairs: as Moses and Aaron, the inspired civil
	and religious authorities; Caleb and Joshua; Ezekiel the priest and
	Daniel the prophet; Zerubbabel and Joshua. 
	in sackcloth—the
	garment of prophets, especially when calling people to mortification
	of their sins, and to repentance. Their very exterior aspect accorded
	with their teachings: so Elijah, and John who came in His spirit and
	power. The sackcloth of the witnesses is a catch word linking
	this episode under the sixth trumpet, with the sun black as
	sackcloth (in righteous retribution on the apostates who rejected
	God's witnesses) under the sixth seal (Revelation 11:8- :).