1. and the angel stood—omitted
	in A, Vulgate, and Coptic. Supported by B and Syriac.
	If it be omitted, the "reed" will, in construction, agree
	with "saying." So WORDSWORTH
	takes it. The reed, the canon of Scripture, the measuring reed
	of the Church, our rule of faith, speaks. So in  :- the altar is personified as speaking (compare
	Note, see on Revelation 11:1).
	The Spirit speaks in the canon of Scripture (the word canon is
	derived from Hebrew, "kaneh," "a reed,"
	the word here used; and John it was who completed the canon). So
	VICTORINUS, AQUINAS,
	and VITRINGA. "Like a
	rod," namely, straight: like a rod of iron (Revelation 11:1- :), unbending, destroying all error, and that "cannot be
	broken." Revelation 2:27; Hebrews 1:8,
	Greek, "a rod of straightness," English Version,
	"a scepter of righteousness"; this is added to guard
	against it being thought that the reed was one "shaken by
	the wind" In the abrupt style of the Apocalypse, "saying"
	is possibly indefinite, put for "one said." Still
	WORDSWORTH'S view agrees
	best with Greek. So the ancient commentator, ANDREAS
	OF CÆSAREA, in the
	end of the fifth century (compare Notes, see on Hebrews 1:8- :). 
	the temple—Greek,
	"naon" (as distinguished from the Greek,
	"hieron," or temple in general), the Holy Place,
	"the sanctuary." 
	the altar—of incense;
	for it alone was in "the sanctuary." (Greek,
	"naos"). The measurement of the Holy place seems to
	me to stand parallel to the sealing of the elect of Israel under the
	sixth seal. God's elect are symbolized by the sanctuary at Jerusalem
	(1 Corinthians 3:16; 1 Corinthians 3:17,
	where the same Greek word, "naos," occurs for
	"temple," as here). Literal Israel in Jerusalem, and with
	the temple restored (Ezekiel 40:3;
	Ezekiel 40:5, where also the temple
	is measured with the measuring reed, the forty-first, forty-second,
	forty-third, and forty-fourth chapters), shall stand at the head of
	the elect Church. The measuring implies at once the exactness of the
	proportions of the temple to be restored, and the definite
	completeness (not one being wanting) of the numbers of the Israelite
	and of the Gentile elections. The literal temple at Jerusalem shall
	be the typical forerunner of the heavenly Jerusalem, in which there
	shall be all temple, and no portion exclusively set apart as
	temple. John's accurately drawing the distinction in
	subsequent chapters between God's servants and those who bear the
	mark of the beast, is the way whereby he fulfils the direction here
	given him to measure the temple. The fact that the temple
	is distinguished from them that worship therein, favors the
	view that the spiritual temple, the Jewish and Christian Church, is
	not exclusively meant, but that the literal temple must also be
	meant. It shall be rebuilt on the return of the Jews to their land.
	Antichrist shall there put forward his blasphemous claims. The sealed
	elect of Israel, the head of the elect Church, alone shall refuse his
	claims. These shall constitute the true sanctuary which is here
	measured, that is, accurately marked and kept by God, whereas the
	rest shall yield to his pretensions. WORDSWORTH
	objects that, in the twenty-five passages of the Acts, wherein the
	Jewish temple is mentioned, it is called hieron, not naos,
	and so in the apostolic Epistles; but this is simply because no
	occasion for mentioning the literal Holy Place (Greek,
	"naos") occurs in Acts and the Epistles; indeed, in
	Acts 7:48, though not directly,
	there does occur the term, naos, indirectly referring to the
	Jerusalem temple Holy Place. In addressing Gentile Christians,
	to whom the literal Jerusalem temple was not familiar, it was
	to be expected the term, naos, should not be found in the
	literal, but in the spiritual sense. In Acts 7:48- : naos is used in a local sense; compare also
	Revelation 14:15; Revelation 14:17;
	Revelation 15:5; Revelation 15:8.