10. Aristarchus—a Macedonian
	of Thessalonica (Acts 27:2), who
	was dragged into the theater at Ephesus, during the tumult with
	Gaius, they being "Paul's companions in travel." He
	accompanied Paul to Asia (Acts 20:4),
	and subsequently (Acts 27:2) to
	Rome. He was now at Rome with Paul (compare Philemon 1:23;
	Philemon 1:24). As he is here spoken
	of as Paul's "fellow prisoner," but in Philemon 1:24- : as Paul's "fellow laborer"; and vice versa, Epaphras
	in Philemon 1:23, as his "fellow
	prisoner," but here (Colossians 1:7)
	"fellow servant," MEYER
	in ALFORD, conjectures
	that Paul's friends voluntarily shared his imprisonment by turns,
	Aristarchus being his fellow prisoner when he wrote to the
	Colossians, Epaphras when he wrote to Philemon. The Greek for
	"fellow prisoner" is literally, fellow captive, an
	image from prisoners taken in warfare, Christians being "fellow
	soldiers" (Philippians 2:25;
	Philemon 1:2), whose warfare is "the
	good fight of faith." 
	Mark—John Mark (Acts 12:12;
	Acts 12:25); the Evangelist
	according to tradition. 
	sister's son—rather,
	"cousin," or "kinsman to Barnabas"; the latter
	being the better known is introduced to designate Mark. The
	relationship naturally accounts for Barnabas' selection of Mark as
	his companion when otherwise qualified; and also for Mark's mother's
	house at Jerusalem being the place of resort of Christians there (Acts 12:25- :). The family belonged to Cyprus (Acts 12:25- :); this accounts for Barnabas' choice of Cyprus as the first
	station on their journey (Acts 13:4),
	and for Mark's accompanying them readily so far, it being the country
	of his family; and for Paul's rejecting him at the second journey for
	not having gone further than Perga, in Pamphylia, but having gone
	thence home to his mother at Jerusalem (Acts 13:4- :) on the first journey (Acts 13:4- :). 
	touching whom—namely,
	Mark. 
	ye received
	commandments—possibly before the writing of this
	Epistle; or the "commandments" were verbal by
	Tychicus, and accompanying this letter, since the past
	tense was used by the ancients (where we use the present) in relation
	to the time which it would be when the letter was read by the
	Colossians. Thus (Philemon 1:19), "I
	have written," for "I write." The substance of them
	was, "If he come unto you, receive him." Paul's rejection
	of him on his second missionary journey, because he had turned back
	at Perga on the first journey (Acts 13:13;
	Acts 15:37-39), had caused
	an alienation between himself and Barnabas. Christian love soon
	healed the breach; for here he implies his restored confidence in
	Mark, makes honorable allusion to Barnabas, and desires that those at
	Colosse who had regarded Mark in consequence of that past error with
	suspicion, should now "receive" him with kindness. Colosse
	is only about one hundred ten miles from Perga, and less than twenty
	from the confines of Pisidia, through which province Paul and
	Barnabas preached on their return during the same journey. Hence,
	though Paul had not personally visited the Colossian Church, they
	knew of the past unfaithfulness of Mark; and needed this
	recommendation of him, after the temporary cloud on him, so as to
	receive him, now that he was about to visit them as an evangelist.
	Again, in Paul's last imprisonment, he, for the last time, speaks of
	Mark (2 Timothy 4:11).