Colossians 3:16.  Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly.  (The most ancient authorities vary here; but ‘Christ’ is well sustained.) ‘The word of Christ’ is the word which Christ has spoken, or caused to be proclaimed. For us the record of this ‘word’ is in the New Testament ‘In you,’ not, ‘among you;’ but the personal indwelling involves the application to the body of believers, especially since social duties are so closely joined with this precept ‘Richly;’ ‘not with a scanty foothold, out with a large and liberal occupancy’ (Eadie).
	 In all wisdom.  This may be joined with what precedes, as in the E. V., or with what follows. The latter preserves the correspondence in the form of the clauses, and makes this phrase emphatic (comp. chap. Colossians 1:28, where the same words are grouped together).
	 Teaching and admonishing one another.  Comp. Ephesians 5:19. The two words have been variously distinguished as referring to instruction about faith and repentance, doctrine and practice, for intellect and heart.
	 In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs.  See Ephesians 5:19. The words refer (though not exclusively) to the Old Testament psalms, to hymns of praise to Christ, and to other poetic productions, the result of the indwelling of the Holy Ghost. Others say the three classes of religious poetry are, Scriptural, congregational, private. ‘One another’ does not imply responsive singing, though that was common. Singing took a large place in the early Christian worship; but the Apostle here refers to all   the intercourse of Christians, in social assemblies, in the family, and not in the public service alone.
	 Singing with grace.  Or, more literally, ‘in grace,’ Christ’s grace. It should not be weakened into ‘gracefully’ or, ‘thankfully.’ The main question is, whether this explains ‘teaching and admonishing,’ or is another manifestation of the indwelling of the word of Christ. The former view teaches that the public and social singing should be hearty and religious. But the latter view is preferable: in addition to the public and social singing for mutual edification, there should be private praise to God. The one should express itself ‘in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs:’ the other may be without a sound  in your hearts,  but not the less singing. The evidence in favor of the reading,  to  God,  is decisive.
	