33. Now the God of peace be with you
	all. Amen—The peace here sought is to be taken in its widest
	sense: the peace of reconciliation to God, first, "through the
	blood of the everlasting covenant" (Hebrews 13:20;
	1 Thessalonians 5:23; 2 Thessalonians 3:16;
	Philippians 4:9); then the peace which
	that reconciliation diffuses among all the partakers of it (1 Corinthians 14:33;
	2 Corinthians 13:11; and see on 2 Corinthians 13:11- :); more widely still, that peace which the children of God,
	in beautiful imitation of their Father in Heaven, are called and
	privileged to diffuse far and wide through this sin-distracted and
	divided world (Romans 12:18; Matthew 5:9;
	Hebrews 12:14; James 3:18).
	Note, (1) Did "the
	chiefest of the apostles" apologize for writing to a Christian
	church which he had never seen, and a church that he was persuaded
	was above the need of it, save to "stir up their pure minds by
	way of remembrance" (2 Peter 1:13;
	2 Peter 3:1); and did he put even
	this upon the sole plea of apostolic responsibility (2 Peter 3:1- :)? What a contrast is thus presented to hierarchical
	pride, and in particular to the affected humility of the bishop of
	this very Rome! How close the bond which the one spirit draws between
	ministers and people—how wide the separation produced by the other!
	(2) There is in the Christian Church no real priesthood, and none but
	figurative sacrifices. Had it been otherwise, it is inconceivable
	that Romans 15:16 should have been
	expressed as it is. Paul's only priesthood and sacrificial offerings
	lay, first, in ministering to them as "the apostle of the
	Gentiles," not the sacrament with the "real presence"
	of Christ in it, or the sacrifice of the mass, but "the Gospel
	of God," and then, when gathered under the wing of Christ,
	presenting them to God as a grateful offering, "being sanctified
	[not by sacrificial gifts, but] by the Holy Ghost." (See Romans 15:16- :). (3) Though the debt we owe to those by whom we have
	been brought to Christ can never be discharged, we should feel it a
	privilege when we render them any lower benefit in return (Romans 15:26;
	Romans 15:27). (4) Formidable
	designs against the truth and the servants of Christ should, above
	all other ways of counteracting them, be met by combined prayer to
	Him who rules all hearts and controls all events; and the darker the
	cloud, the more resolutely should all to whom Christ's cause is dear
	"strive together in their prayers to God" for the removal
	of it (Romans 15:30; Romans 15:31).
	(5) Christian fellowship is so precious that the most eminent
	servants of Christ, amid the toils and trials of their work, find it
	refreshing and invigorating; and it is no good sign of any
	ecclesiastic, that he deems it beneath him to seek and enjoy it even
	amongst the humblest saints in the Church of Christ (Romans 15:24;
	Romans 15:32).