22. (Hebrews 4:16;
	Hebrews 7:19.) 
	with a true heart—without
	hypocrisy; "in truth, and with a perfect heart"; a heart
	thoroughly imbued with "the truth" (Hebrews 7:19- :). 
	full assurance— (Hebrews 7:19- :); with no doubt as to our acceptance when coming to God by
	the blood of Christ. As "faith" occurs here, so "hope,"
	and "love," Hebrews 10:23;
	Hebrews 10:24. 
	sprinkled from—that is,
	sprinkled so as to be cleansed from. 
	evil conscience—a
	consciousness of guilt unatoned for, and uncleansed away (Hebrews 10:2;
	Hebrews 9:9). Both the hearts
	and the bodies are cleansed. The legal purifications were with
	blood of animal victims and with water, and could only cleanse the
	flesh (Hebrews 9:13; Hebrews 9:21).
	Christ's blood purifies the heart and conscience. The Aaronic
	priest, in entering the holy place, washed with water (Hebrews 9:21- :) in the brazen laver. Believers, as priests to God, are once
	for all washed in BODY (as distinguished from "hearts") at
	baptism. As we have an immaterial, and a material nature, the
	cleansing of both is expressed by "hearts" and "body,"
	the inner and the outer man; so the whole man, material and
	immaterial. The baptism of the body, however, is not the mere putting
	away of material filth, nor an act operating by intrinsic efficacy,
	but the sacramental seal, applied to the outer man, of a spiritual
	washing (1 Peter 3:21). "Body"
	(not merely "flesh," the carnal part, as 1 Peter 3:21- :) includes the whole material man, which needs
	cleansing, as being redeemed, as well as the soul. The body, once
	polluted with sin, is washed, so as to be fitted like Christ's holy
	body, and by His body, to be spiritually a pure and living offering.
	On the "pure water," the symbol of consecration and
	sanctification, compare John 19:34;
	1 Corinthians 6:11; 1 John 5:6;
	Ezekiel 36:25. The perfects "having
	. . . hearts sprinkled . . . body (the Greek is
	singular) washed," imply a continuing state produced by a
	once-for-all accomplished act, namely, our justification by faith
	through Christ's blood, and consecration to God, sealed sacramentally
	by the baptism of our body.