38. just—The oldest
	manuscripts and Vulgate read, "my just man."
	God is the speaker: "He who is just in My sight." BENGEL
	translates, "The just shall live by my faith":
	answering to the Hebrew,  :-; literally, "the just shall live by the faith of
	Him," namely, Christ, the final subject of "the
	vision," who "will not lie," that is, disappoint. Here
	not merely the first beginning, as in  :-, but the continuance, of the spiritual life of the
	justified man is referred to, as opposed to declension and apostasy.
	As the justified man receives his first spiritual life by faith, so
	it is by faith that he shall continue to live
	(Luke 4:4). The faith meant
	here is that fully developed living trust in the unseen (Luke 4:4- :) Saviour, which can keep men steadfast amidst persecutions
	and temptations (Luke 4:4- :). 
	but—Greek,
	"and." 
	if any man
	draw back—So the Greek admits: though it might also be
	translated, as ALFORD
	approves, "if he (the just man) draw back." Even so,
	it would not disprove the final perseverance of saints. For "the
	just man" in this latter clause would mean one seemingly, and in
	part really, though not savingly, "just" or justified:
	as in Ezekiel 18:24; Ezekiel 18:26.
	In the Hebrew, this latter half of the verse stands first, and
	is, "Behold, his soul which is lifted up, is not upright in
	him." Habakkuk states the cause of drawing back: a
	soul lifted up, and in self-inflated unbelief setting itself up
	against God. Paul, by the Spirit, states the effect, it draws
	back. Also, what in Habakkuk is, "His soul is not upright in
	him," is in Paul, "My soul shall have no pleasure in him."
	Habakkuk states the cause, Paul the effect: He who is not
	right in his own soul, does not stand right with God; God has no
	pleasure in him. BENGEL
	translates Habakkuk, "His soul is not upright in respect to
	him," namely, Christ, the subject of "the vision,"
	that is, Christ has no pleasure in him (compare Ezekiel 18:26- :). Every flower in spring is not a fruit in autumn.