16. For—Greek,
	"Because." This gives the proof that He is not included in
	the things created, but is the "first-begotten" before
	"every creature" ( :-), begotten as "the Son of God's love" ( :-), antecedently to all other emanations: "for" all
	these other emanations came from Him, and whatever was created, was
	created by Him.
by him—rather as Greek,
	"in Him": as the conditional element, pre-existent
	and all-including: the creation of all things BY
	Him is expressed afterwards, and is a different fact from the
	present one, though implied in it [ALFORD].
	God revealed Himself in the Son, the Word of the Father, before
	all created existence ( :-). That Divine Word carries IN
	Himself the archetypes of all existences, so that "IN
	Him all things that are in heaven and earth have been
	created." The "in Him" indicates that the Word is the
	ideal ground of all existence; the "by Him," below,
	that He is the instrument of actually realizing the divine
	idea [NEANDER]. His
	essential nature as the Word of the Father is not a mere appendage of
	His incarnation, but is the ground of it. The original relation of
	the Eternal Word to men "made in His image" ( :-), is the source of the new relation to them by redemption,
	formed in His incarnation, whereby He restores them to His lost
	image. "In Him" implies something prior to "by"
	and "for Him" presently after: the three prepositions mark
	in succession the beginning, the progress, and the end [BENGEL].
	all things—Greek,
	"the universe of things." That the new creation
	is not meant in this verse (as Socinians interpret), is plain; for
	angels, who are included in the catalogue, were not new
	created by Christ; and he does not speak of the new creation till
	Colossians 1:18. The creation "of
	the things that are in the heavens" (so Greek)
	includes the creation of the heavens themselves: the former
	are rather named, since the inhabitants are more noble than their
	dwellings. Heaven and earth and all that is m them (1 Chronicles 29:11;
	Nehemiah 9:6; Revelation 10:6).
	invisible—the world of
	spirits. 
	thrones, or
	dominions—lordships: the thrones are the greater of the
	two. 
	principalities, or
	powers—rather, "rules, or authorities":
	the former are stronger than the latter (compare Note, see on
	Revelation 10:6- :). The latter pair refer to
	offices in respect to God's creatures: "thrones and
	dominions" express exalted relation to God, they being
	the chariots on which He rides displaying His glory (Revelation 10:6- :). The existence of various orders of angels is established
	by this passage. 
	all things—Greek,
	"the whole universe of things." 
	were—rather, to
	distinguish the Greek aorist, which precedes from the perfect
	tense here, "have been created." In the former case
	the creation was viewed as a past act at a point of time, or
	as done once for all; here it is viewed, not merely as one historic
	act of creation in the past, but as the permanent result now and
	eternally continuing.
by him—as the
	instrumental Agent (John 1:3). 
	for him—as the grand
	End of creation; containing in Himself the reason why creation
	is at all, and why it is as it is [ALFORD].
	He is the final cause as well as the efficient cause.
	LACHMANN'S punctuation of
	Colossians 1:15-18 is best,
	whereby "the first-born of every creature" (Colossians 1:15-51.1.18- :) answers to "the first-born from the dead" (Colossians 1:15-51.1.18- :), the whole forming one sentence with the words ("All
	things were created by Him and for Him, and He is before all things,
	and by Him all things consist, and He is the Head of the body, the
	Church") intervening as a parenthesis. Thus Paul puts first, the
	origination by Him of the natural creation; secondly, of the
	new creation. The parenthesis falls into four clauses, two and
	two: the former two support the first assertion, "the first-born
	of every creature"; the latter two prepare us for "the
	first-born from the dead"'; the former two correspond to the
	latter two in their form—"All things by Him . . . and He is,"
	and "By Him all things . . . and He is."