24. Who—The oldest manuscripts
	omit "who"; then translate, "Now I rejoice." Some
	very old manuscripts, and the best of the Latin versions, and
	Vulgate, read as English Version. To enhance the glory
	of Christ as paramount to all, he mentions his own sufferings for the
	Church of Christ. "Now" stands in contrast to "I was
	made," in the past time ( :-). 
	for you—"on your
	behalf," that ye may be confirmed in resting solely on Christ
	(to the exclusion of angel-worship) by the glorification of Christ in
	my sufferings (Ephesians 3:1). 
	fill up that which is
	behind—literally, "the deficiencies"—all that are
	lacking of the afflictions of Christ (compare Note, see on Ephesians 3:1- :). Christ is "afflicted in all His people's afflictions"
	(Isaiah 63:9). "The Church is
	His body in which He is, dwells, lives, and therefore also suffers"
	[VITRINGA]. Christ was
	destined to endure certain afflictions in this figurative body, as
	well as in His literal; these were "that which is behind of the
	afflictions of Christ," which Paul "filled up."
	His own meritorious sufferings in expiation for sin were once for all
	completely filled up on the Cross. But His Church (His second Self)
	has her whole measure of afflictions fixed. The more Paul, a member,
	endured, the less remain for the rest of the Church to endure; the
	communion of saints thus giving them an interest in his sufferings.
	It is in reference to the Church's afflictions, which are "Christ's
	afflictions, that Paul here saith, "I fill up the deficiencies,"
	or "what remain behind of the afflictions of Christ." She
	is afflicted to promote her growth in holiness, and her completeness
	in Christ. Not one suffering is lost (Isaiah 63:9- :). All her members have thus a mutual interest in one
	another's sufferings (1 Corinthians 12:26).
	But Rome's inference hence, is utterly false that the Church has a
	stock treasury of the merits and satisfactions of Christ and His
	apostles, out of which she may dispense indulgences; the context has
	no reference to sufferings in expiation of sin and productive
	of merit. Believers should regard their sufferings less in
	relation to themselves as individuals, and more as parts of a grand
	whole, carrying out God's perfect plan.