20. The Greek order is,
	"And through Him (Christ) to reconcile again completely (see on
	 :-) all things (Greek,
	'the whole universe of things') unto Himself (unto God the Father,
	2 Corinthians 5:19), having made peace
	(God the Father having made peace) through the blood of His
	(Christ's) cross," that is, shed by Christ on the cross:
	the price and pledge of our reconciliation with God. The Scripture
	phrase, "God reconciles man to Himself," implies that He
	takes away by the blood of Jesus the barrier which God's justice
	interposes against man's being in union with God (compare Note,
	see on 2 Corinthians 5:19- :; 2 Corinthians 5:19- :). So the Septuagint, 2 Corinthians 5:19- :, "Wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his
	master," that is, reconcile his master unto him by
	appeasing his wrath. So Matthew 5:23;
	Matthew 5:24. 
	by him—"through
	Him" (the instrumental agent in the new creation, as in the
	original creation): emphatically repeated, to bring the person of
	Christ, as the Head of both creations alike, into prominence. 
	things in earth . . . in
	heaven—Good angels, in one sense, do not need reconciliation to
	God; fallen angels are excluded from it (Matthew 5:24- :). But probably redemption has effects on the world of spirits
	unknown to us. Of course, His reconciling us, and His
	reconciling them, must be by a different process, as He took
	not on Him the nature of angels, so as to offer a propitiation
	for them. But the effect of redemption on them, as He is their
	Head as well as ours, is that they are thereby brought
	nearer God, and so gain an increase of blessedness [ALFORD],
	and larger views of the love and wisdom of God (Matthew 5:24- :). All creation subsists in Christ, all creation is therefore
	affected by His propitiation: sinful creation is strictly
	"reconciled" from its enmity; sinless creation,
	comparatively distant from His unapproachable purity (Job 4:18;
	Job 15:15; Job 25:5),
	is lifted into nearer participation of Him, and in this wider sense
	is reconciled. Doubtless, too, man's fall, following on Satan's fall,
	is a segment of a larger circle of evil, so that the remedy of the
	former affects the standing of angels, from among whom Satan and his
	host fell. Angels thereby having seen the magnitude of sin, and the
	infinite cost of redemption, and the exclusion of the fallen angels
	from it, and the inability of any creature to stand morally in his
	own strength, are now put beyond the reach of falling. Thus
	BACON'S definition of
	Christ's Headship holds good: "The Head of redemption to
	man; the Head of preservation to angels." Some conjecture
	that Satan, when unfallen, ruled this earth and the pre-Adamic animal
	kingdom: hence his malice against man who succeeded to the lordship
	of this earth and its animals, and hence, too, his assumption of the
	form of a serpent, the subtlest of the animal tribes. Job 25:5- : states expressly "peace in heaven" as the result
	of finished redemption, as "peace on earth" was the result
	of its beginning at Jesus' birth (Job 25:5- :). BENGEL explains
	the reconciliation to be that of not only God, but also angels,
	estranged from men because of man's enmity against God. Job 25:5- : accords with this: This is true, but only part of the truth:
	so ALFORD'S view also is
	but part of the truth. An actual reconciliation or restoration
	of peace in heaven, as well as on earth, is expressed by Paul. As
	long as that blood of reconciliation was not actually shed, which is
	opposed (Zechariah 3:8; Zechariah 3:9)
	to the accusations of Satan, but was only in promise, Satan could
	plead his right against men before God day and night (Job 1:6;
	Revelation 12:10); hence he was in
	heaven till the ban on man was broken (compare Revelation 12:10- :). So here; the world of earth and heaven owe to Christ
	alone the restoration of harmony after the conflict and the
	subjugation of all things under one Head (compare Revelation 12:10- :). Sin introduced discord not only on earth, but also in
	heaven, by the fall of demons; it brought into the abodes of holy
	angels, though not positive, yet privative loss, a retardation of
	their highest and most perfect development, harmonious gradation, and
	perfect consummation. Angels were no more able than men by themselves
	to overcome the peace disturbers, and cast out the devils; it is only
	"by," or "through HIM,"
	and "the blood of HIS
	cross," that peace was restored even in heaven; it is
	only after Christ has obtained the victory fully and legally, that
	Michael (Revelation 12:7-10)
	and his angels can cast out of heaven Satan and his demons (compare
	Colossians 2:15). Thus the point of
	Paul's argument against angel-worship is, that angels themselves,
	like men, wholly depend on Christ, the sole and true object of
	worship [AUBERLEN].