15. They who have experienced in
	themselves "redemption" ( :-), know Christ in the glorious character here described, as
	above the highest angels to whom the false teachers ( :-) taught worship was to be paid. Paul describes Him: (1) in
	relation to God and creation ( :-); (2) in relation to the Church ( :-). As the former regards Him as the Creator (Colossians 1:15;
	Colossians 1:16) and the Sustainer (Colossians 1:16- :) of the natural world; so the latter, as the source and stay
	of the new moral creation. 
	image—exact likeness
	and perfect Representative. Adam was made "in the image of God"
	(Genesis 1:27). But Christ, the
	second Adam, perfectly reflected visibly "the invisible God"
	(1 Timothy 1:17), whose glories the
	first Adam only in part represented. "Image" (eicon)
	involves "likeness" (homoiosis); but "likeness"
	does not involve "image." "Image" always supposes
	a prototype, which it not merely resembles, but from which it is
	drawn: the exact counterpart, as the reflection of the sun in the
	water: the child the living image of the parent. "Likeness"
	implies mere resemblance, not the exact counterpart and
	derivation as "image" expresses; hence it is nowhere
	applied to the Son, while "image" is here, compare 1 Timothy 1:17- : [TRENCH].
	(John 1:18; John 14:9;
	2 Corinthians 4:4; 1 Timothy 3:16;
	Hebrews 1:3). Even before His
	incarnation He was the image of the invisible God, as the Word (Hebrews 1:3- :) by whom God created the worlds, and by whom God appeared
	to the patriarchs. Thus His essential character as always
	"the image of God," (1) before the incarnation, (2) in the
	days of His flesh, and (3) now in His glorified state, is, I think,
	contemplated here by the verb "is." 
	first-born of every creature—
	(Hebrews 1:6), "the
	first-begotten": "begotten of His Father before all worlds"
	[Nicene Creed]. Priority and superlative dignity is implied
	(Psalms 89:27). English Version
	might seem to favor Arianism, as if Christ were a creature.
	Translate, "Begotten (literally, 'born') before every
	creature," as the context shows, which gives the reason why He
	is so designated. "For," c. (Colossians 1:16
Colossians 1:17) [TRENCH].
	This expression is understood by ORIGEN
	(so far is the Greek from favoring Socinian or Arian views) as
	declaring the Godhead of Christ, and is used by Him as a
	phrase to mark that Godhead, in contrast with His manhood
	[Book 2, sec. Against Celsus]. The Greek does not
	strictly admit ALFORD'S
	translation, "the first-born of all creation."