3. Hurt not—by letting loose
	the destructive winds. 
	till we have sealed the
	servants of our God—parallel to  :-, "His angels . . . shall gather together His elect
	from the four winds." God's love is such, that He cannot do
	anything in the way of judgment, till His people are secured from
	hurt (Genesis 19:22). Israel, at the
	eve of the Lord's coming, shall be found re-embodied as a nation; for
	its tribes are distinctly specified (Joseph, however, being
	substituted for Dan; whether because Antichrist is to come from Dan,
	or because Dan is to be Antichrist's especial tool [ARETAS,
	tenth century], compare Genesis 49:17;
	Jeremiah 8:16; Amos 8:14;
	just as there was a Judas among the Twelve). Out of these tribes a
	believing remnant will be preserved from the judgments which
	shall destroy all the Antichristian confederacy (Amos 8:14- :), and shall be transfigured with the elect Church of
	all nations, namely, 144,000 (or whatever number is meant by this
	symbolical number), who shall faithfully resist the seductions of
	Antichrist, while the rest of the nation, restored to Palestine in
	unbelief, are his dupes, and at last his victims. Previously to the
	Lord's judgments on Antichrist and his hosts, these latter shall
	destroy two-thirds of the nation, one-third escaping,
	and, by the Spirit's operation through affliction, turning to the
	Lord, which remnant shall form the nucleus on earth of the Israelite
	nation that is from this time to stand at the head of the millennial
	nations of the world. Israel's spiritual resurrection shall be "as
	life from the dead" to all the nations. As now a regeneration
	goes on here and there of individuals, so there shall then be a
	regeneration of nations universally, and this in connection with
	Christ's coming. Matthew 24:34;
	"this generation (the Jewish nation) shall not pass till all
	these things be fulfilled," which implies that Israel can no
	more pass away before Christ's advent, than Christ's own words
	can pass away (the same Greek), Matthew 24:34- :. So exactly Zechariah 13:8;
	Zechariah 13:9; Zechariah 14:2-4;
	Zechariah 14:9-21; compare
	Zechariah 12:2-14; Zechariah 13:1;
	Zechariah 13:2. So also Ezekiel 8:17;
	Ezekiel 8:18; Ezekiel 9:1-7,
	especially Ezekiel 9:4. Compare also
	Ezekiel 10:2; Revelation 8:5,
	where the final judgments actually fall on the earth, with the same
	accompaniment, the fire of the altar cast into the earth,
	including the fire scattered over the city. So again, Revelation 8:5- :, the same 144,000 appear on Zion with the Father's name in
	their forehead, at the close of the section, the twelfth through
	fourteenth chapters, concerning the Church and her foes. Not that the
	saints are exempt from trial: Revelation 8:5- : proves the contrary; but their trials are distinct from the
	destroying judgments that fall on the world; from these they
	are exempted, as Israel was from the plagues of Egypt, especially
	from the last, the Israelite doors having the protecting seal of the
	blood-mark. 
	foreheads—the most
	conspicuous and noblest part of man's body; on which the helmet, "the
	hope of salvation," is worn.