John 15:2.  Every branch in me which beareth not fruit, he taketh it away; and all that which beareth fruit, he cleanseth it, that it may bear more fruit.  Two parts of the husband man’s operations with his vine are here alluded to, the first that of taking away unfruitful branches. Any branch of the vine that is found, and as soon as it is found, to be not fruit-bearing is cut off. It is probable that the allusion is primarily to Judas (comp. chap. John 17:12), but thereafter to all of whom the traitor is the representative, who, taking their places for a time in the number of the disciples, prove by the result that they have no right to be there (comp. 1 John 2:19). They are branches of the vine; but, as only outward and carnal not inward and spiritual, they are taken away, their further fate being not yet mentioned. The second part of the husbandman’s work   follows, that of pruning, for which the word cleansing, with its deeper meaning, is appropriately used. The object of the Father is the inward, spiritual, cleansing of His children, in contrast with the outward purifications of Israel (chaps. John 2:6, John 3:25); and the cleansing spoken of (which follows, not precedes, their fruit-bearing) is future and continuous. The means are afflictions, not of any kind but for the sake of Jesus, here especially the afflictions to which the disciples shall be exposed in doing their Master’s work, as He Himself ‘learned obedience by the things which He suffered.’ The attaining of this perfection is, however, a gradual process, and hence the words ‘that it may bear more fruit.’ It is possible that the ‘fruit’ to be borne may include all Christian graces, although it would seem as if the general growth of the Christian life were rather set forth in the growth and strengthening of the ‘branch.’ The considerations already adduced, and the whole strain of the discourse, lead us rather to understand by the ‘fruit’ now spoken of fruit borne in carrying on the work of Jesus in the world (comp. on John 15:16).
	