Verse Matthew 10:25. It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master] Can any man who pretends to be a scholar or disciple of Jesus Christ, expect to be treated well by the world? Will not the world love its own, and them only? Why, then, so much impatience under sufferings, such an excessive sense of injuries, such delicacy? Can you expect any thing from the world better than you receive? If you want the honour that comes from it, abandon Jesus Christ, and it will again receive you into its bosom. But you will, no doubt, count the cost before you do this. Take the converse, abandon the love of the world, c., and God will receive you.Beelzebub — This name is variously written in the MSS. Beelzebaul, Beelzeboun, Beelzebud, but there is a vast majority in favour of the reading Beelzebul, which should, by all means, be inserted in the text instead of Beelzebub. See the reasons below, and see the margin.It is supposed that this idol was the same with בעל זבוב Baalzebub the god fly, worshipped at Ekron, 2Kg 1:2, &c., who had his name changed afterwards by the Jews to בעל זבול Baal zebul, the dung god, a title expressive of the utmost contempt. It seems probable that the worship of this vile idol continued even to the time of our Lord and the title, being applied by the Jews to our blessed Lord, affords the strongest proof of the inveteracy of their malice.Dr. Lightfoot has some useful observations on this subject, which I shall take the liberty to subjoin."For the searching out the sense of this horrid blasphemy, these things are worthy observing,"I. Among the Jews it was held, in a manner, for a matter of religion, to reproach idols, and to give them odious names. R. Akibah saith, Idolatry pollutes, as it is said, Thou shalt cast away the (idol) as something that is abominable, and thou shalt say to it, Get thee hence: (Isaiah 30:22.) R. Lazar saith, Thou shalt say to it, Get thee hence: that which they call the face of God, let them call the face of a dog. That which they call עין כוס ein cos, the FOUNTAIN OF A CUP, let them call עין קוץ ein kuts, the FOUNTAIN OF TOIL (or of flails.) That which they call גדיה gediyah, FORTUNE, let them call גלייא geliya, a STINK, c. That town which sometimes was called Bethel, was afterwards called Bethaven. See also the tract Schabbath."II. Among the ignominious names bestowed upon idols, the general and common one was זבול Zebul, DUNG, or a DUNGHILL. 'Even to them that have stretched out their hands בזבול bezebul in a dunghill, (that is, in an idol temple, or in idolatry,) there is hope. Thou canst not bring them (into the Church) because they have stretched forth their hands bezebul, in a dunghill. But yet you cannot reject them, because they have repented.' And a little after, He that sees them dunging, בזבלין (that is, sacrificing,) to an idol, let him say, Cursed be he that sacrifices to a strange god. Let them, therefore, who dare, form this word in Matthew into Beelzebub. I am so far from doubting that the Pharisees pronounced the word BEELZEBUL, and that Matthew so wrote it, that I doubt not but the sense fails if it be writ otherwise."III. Very many names of evil spirits, or devils, occur in the Talmud, which it is needless here to mention. Among all the devils, they esteemed that devil the worst, the foulest, as it were, the prince of the rest, who ruled over the idols, and by whom oracles and miracles were given forth among the Heathens and idolaters. And they were of this opinion for this reason, because they held idolatry, above all other things, chiefly wicked and abominable, and to be the prince and head of evil. This demon they called בעל זבול Baal-zebul, not so much by a proper name, as by one more general and common as much as to say, the lord of idolatry: the worst devil, and the worst thing: and they called him the prince of devils, because idolatry is the prince (or chief) of wickedness."