1 Peter 5:5.  In like manner, ye younger, submit yourselves to the elders.  The exhortation clearly is to the cherishing of a spirit of deference on the part of one class to another. But the question is, Are the two classes introduced here in respect of  age  simply, or in respect of  office?  Seeing that in the opening verse the term ‘elders’ is used in the official sense, it is natural to suppose it to have the same sense here. It is not less natural to suppose the correlative term ‘younger’ to have a similar official sense. And this is supported by the circumstance that in connection with the narrative of Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 5:5; Acts 5:10) we read of the ‘young men’ as if they were a distinct class, charged with certain manual services to the Church, who accordingly rise up at once and perform unsummoned the duty which had to be done then. In this case, the exhortation would bear upon the relations of the junior and subordinate office-bearers (not necessarily identical with the deacons), or the recognised servants of the Church, to the presbyters or elders. It is alleged on the other hand, however, that there is no historical notice of the institution of any such lower order of church officers, and that the passage in Acts 5:0 does not necessarily imply the existence of a distinct class known officially as the ‘young men’ or the ‘younger men.’ Hence the phrase ‘ye younger’ is taken by some (Wiesinger, Alford, etc.) to mean the general membership of the Church, its members as distinguished from its office-bearers. Others (Huther, etc.) understand the official sense to be dropped here, and both the ‘elders’ and the ‘younger’ to be designations of age only. Others (de Wette, etc.) suppose the ‘elders’ to mean the office-bearers proper, and the ‘younger’ to denote neither a junior order nor the entire non-official membership, but only those members who were young in years and consequently under stronger temptation to snow themselves insubordinate to their ecclesiastical rulers. The term ‘elder’ in the Hebrew Church was first a title of age and then a title of office. As those who were elders by age were in ordinary circumstances chosen as elders by office, the word combined both ideas, and with these it probably passed into the Christian Church. And even before there was any direct creation or recognition of distinct offices, the young men would naturally be looked to for the discharge of such duties in the Christian Church as they had probably been accustomed to in the Synagogue, and this would have a quasi-official position.
	 yea, all one to another. The ‘be subject,’ which the A. V. inserts after ‘yea, all of you,’ must be omitted on the authority of the best documents. This leaves it open to connect the clause either with what precedes or with what follows. In the latter case (which is adopted by the text of the R. V., and by Alford, etc.) the idea is ‘Yea, all of you, in reference one to another, gird yourselves,’ etc. In the former case (which is the more grammatical construction) the clause extends to the whole body of Christian people, without distinction of office or age, the same exhortation to mutual deference and submission which has already been addressed to a particular class. Gird yourselves with humility. The ‘and’ of the A. V. does not belong to the text. As to the grace of  humility  see on chap. 1 Peter 3:8. The verb translated ‘be clothed with’ by the A. V. occurs nowhere else in the N. T. The precise idea which it conveys has, therefore, been variously understood. Some give it the sense of ‘adorn yourselves’ (Calvin, etc.), and so the Genevan Version renders it ‘deck yourselves inwardly with.’ Others think that it is formed from a noun meaning the  frock  or  apron  of a slave, and would render it ‘the yourselves up with humility as with the slave’s cape.’ To put on such a cape was to prepare for discharging the duties of a servant. The word would thus be chosen in order to indicate ‘the menial service which they were to render one to another; in the same way as our Lord showed it in His own example and person when He girded Himself with a towel and washed the disciples’ feet’ (Humphrey,  Comm. on the Rev. Vers.,  p. 446). The Vulgate and the Rhemish Versions, again, translate it ‘insinuate humility.’ The word seems to be derived, however, rather from a simpler noun denoting a  band.  It thus means to  fasten,  not merely to  put on,  but to  gird tightly on;  the grace of humility being not the girdle that fastens other things, but the thing which is girt firmly about one. It is therefore a stronger form of Paul’s ‘Put on . . humbleness of mind’ (Colossians 3:12). Bengel paraphrases it admirably thus: ‘Indue and wrap yourselves about with it, so that it may be impossible for the covering of humility to be torn from you by any force.’ Tyndale’s rendering is, ‘Knit yourselves together in lowliness of mind.’
	 because God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. The ‘resisteth’ indicates a strong and deliberate opposition. Its idea is that of  setting oneself in array against one.  The importance of the duty of humility is enforced by a sentence taken (with the substitution of  God  for  the Lord)  from the Greek text of Proverbs 3:34. This sentence is introduced in a similar connection in James 4:6. It states a principle on which God acts. It is the principle which is recognised in the Magnificat (Luke 1:5-53), and of which a figure has been seen by many in the action of rain or dew on hill and vale. Leighton,  e.g.,  says ‘His sweet dews and showers of grace slide off the mountains of pride, and fall on the low valleys of humble hearts, and make them pleasant and fertile.’ But in this he is anticipated by Augustine, who speaks of grace descending into humble souls as ‘the water flows together toward the lowliness of the valley, and flows down from the swelling hill.’ Compare also J. D. Burns’ rendering of the same principle: ‘The dew that never wets the flinty mountain  Falls in the valleys free;  Bright verdure fringes the small desert-fountain,  But barren sand the sea.’
	