1 Peter 5:2.  Tend the flock of God. The ‘feed’ of the A. V. is too limited a rendering. In the memorable scene by the sea of Galilee (John 21:15-17), which is probably in Peter’s mind here, Christ gave three commissions to the restored Apostle. Of these the first and third dealt with the duty  of feeding  in the strict sense of the word (the verb used in John 5:15 and John 5:17 being one which conveys that idea only); but the second (in John 5:16) referred to a wider range of ministry than that, and was expressed by a different verb. It is this latter term that is taken up by Peter here. The idea is that of  acting all the shepherd’s part,  including protection, rule, guidance, etc., as well as the providing of pasture. The charge reminds us also of Paul’s counsel to the Ephesian elders (Acts 20:28). In the oldest of the classical writers the relations of ruler to people are familiarly described as the relations of shepherd to flock. The same figure occurs frequently both in the Old Testament and in the New. In the former it is used of Jehovah, of Messiah, and of the political heads of the theocratic people (Psalms 78:71; Jeremiah 3:15; Jeremiah 12:10; Jeremiah 25:34; Ezekiel 34:2). In the latter it is used of Christ, and of those in office in the Church. The designation ‘the flock of God’ expresses both the unity of the Church and the fact that it is God’s possession, not that of the elders. which is in you. It has been felt singular that the flock should be described as  among  or (as the word literally means)  in  the elders. Hence it has been proposed to render the phrase rather ‘as much as in you is’ (so the margin of the A. V., also Calvin, etc.). Others explain the form of the expression as due to the wish to bring out the peculiar intimacy of union between the elders and the members, as the same preposition is used in the analogous charge in Acts 20:28 ‘take heed ... to all the flock over (literally  in)  the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers.’ The ordinary local sense, however, is quite in point, whether it be taken as=  which is in your districts;  or as  =which is within your reach  (Luther, etc.), or a  s=which is under your care  (Hofmann, Huther, etc.). The idea is that this church of God, which is the flock, is to be tended by these particular elders, so far as it exists where they themselves are settled and have it thus put under their charge.
	 taking the oversight thereof. It is doubtful whether this clause belongs to the text. The R. V. retains it in the form ‘exercising the oversight.’ It is omitted, however, by the two oldest manuscripts, and by the most recent editors. If it is retained, it states one direction which the  tending  is to take, namely, that of  overseeing  the flock. The verb is the one with which the word  bishop (i.e overseer)  is connected. We find it only once again in the N. T., viz. in Hebrews 12:15, where it is rendered ‘looking diligently.’ If it is omitted here, the  tending  is defined directly by the three adverbial and participial clauses which follow. Each of these, too, consists of two parts, the thing to be avoided being in each case first set solemnly over against the thing positively enjoined. Greater force is thus given to the statement of the spirit in which the t  ending  is to be discharged.
	 not constrainedly; or, as the R. V. gives it,  not of constraint.  The adverb occurs nowhere else in the N. T. It is of the rarest possible occurrence in Classical Greek.
	 but willingly: a term found only once again in the N. T., viz. in Hebrews 10:26, where it is rendered ‘wilfully.’ The R. V. adds here the words ‘according unto God,’ on the genuineness of which the divided state of the documentary evidence makes it difficult to pronounce a decided opinion. This first definition describes the elder’s duty as one which is not to be taken up like an unwelcome burden imposed on one, or a task from which one cannot retreat. In such circumstances there will be, as Calvin suggests, a dull and frigid discharge of the work. We have a similar antithesis in 1 Corinthians 9:17, and Philemon 1:14.
	 nor yet for filthy lucre. The negative is more than the simple ‘not’ of the A. V. It has the force of a climax ‘nor yet.’ The adverb ‘for filthy lucre,’ which denotes the corrupt motive here, has also a very strong sense. It means  in sordid greed of gain.  This is its only occurrence in the N. T. Its idea is otherwise expressed in 1 Timothy 3:8; Titus 1:7; Titus 1:11. The support which those are entitled to receive who preach the Gospel, or otherwise devote themselves to the service of Christ’s Church (Luke 10:7; 2 Corinthians 9:14), becomes base gain, if it is made the motive of the service.
	 but of a ready mind.  This again is an adverb found nowhere else in the N. T. The adjective describes Paul as  ready  to preach the Gospel (Romans 1:15), and is used by Christ when He says to Peter himself and his drowsy comrades in the garden, ‘the spirit indeed is  willing’  (Matthew 26:41), or, ‘the spirit truly is ready’ (Mark 14:38). Here the word expresses the prompt alacrity which marks the service which is undertaken for love of the work ‘a mind forward of itself, not measuring its efforts by the prospect of external advantage, but quickened and impelled by its own inward and Divine principles’ (Lillie).
	