15. But if I tarry long—before
	coming to thee. 
	that—that is, I write
	(1 Timothy 3:14) "that thou
	mayest know," c. 
	behave thyself—in
	directing the Church at Ephesus (1 Timothy 3:14- :). 
	the house of God—the
	Church (Hebrews 3:2 Hebrews 3:5;
	Hebrews 3:6; Hebrews 10:21;
	1 Peter 4:17; 1 Corinthians 3:16,
	"the temple of God"; 1 Corinthians 3:16- :). 
	which is—that is,
	inasmuch as it is. 
	the church—"the
	congregation." The fact that the sphere of thy functions is "the
	congregation of the living God" (who is the ever living Master
	of the house, 2 Timothy 2:19; 2 Timothy 2:20;
	2 Timothy 2:21), is the strongest
	motive to faithfulness in this behavior as president of a
	department of the house." The living God forms a striking
	contrast to the lifeless idol, Diana of Ephesus (2 Timothy 2:21- :). He is the fountain of "truth," and the foundation
	of our "trust" (2 Timothy 2:21- :). Labor directed to a particular Church is service to the
	one great house of God, of which each particular Church is a part,
	and each Christian a lively stone (2 Timothy 2:21- :). 
	the pillar and ground of the
	truth—evidently predicated of the Church, not of "the
	mystery of godliness" (an interpretation not started till the
	sixteenth century; so BENGEL);
	for after two weighty predicates, "pillar and ground," and
	these substantives, the third, a much weaker one, and that an
	adjective, "confessedly," or "without controversy
	great," would not come. "Pillar" is so used
	metaphorically of the three apostles on whom principally the Jewish
	Christian Church depended (Galatians 2:9;
	compare Revelation 3:12). The Church is
	"the pillar of the truth," as the continued existence
	(historically) of the truth rests on it; for it supports and
	preserves the word of truth. He who is of the truth belongs by the
	very fact to the Church. Christ is the alone ground of the truth in
	the highest sense (1 Corinthians 3:11).
	The apostles are foundations in a secondary sense (Ephesians 2:20;
	Revelation 21:14). The Church rests on
	the truth as it is in Christ; not the truth on the Church. But the
	truth as it is in itself is to be distinguished from the truth
	as it is acknowledged in the world. In the former sense it
	needs no pillar, but supports itself; in the latter sense, it
	needs the Church as its pillar, that is, its supporter and preserver
	[BAUMGARTEN]. The
	importance of Timothy's commission is set forth by reminding him of
	the excellence of "the house" in which he serves; and this
	in opposition to the coming heresies which Paul presciently forewarns
	him of immediately after (1 Timothy 4:1).
	The Church is to be the stay of the truth and its conserver for the
	world, and God's instrument for securing its continuance on earth, in
	opposition to those heresies (Matthew 16:18;
	Matthew 28:20). The apostle does not
	recognize a Church which has not the truth, or has it only in part.
	Rome falsely claims the promise for herself. But it is not historical
	descent that constitutes a Church, but this only, to those heresies
	(Matthew 16:18; Matthew 28:20).
	The apostle does not recognize a Church which has not the
	intermediate; the "ground," or "basement"
	(similar to "foundation," Matthew 28:20- :), the final support of the building [ALFORD].
	It is no objection that, having called the Church before "the
	house of God," he now calls it the "pillar"; for the
	literal word "Church" immediately precedes the new
	metaphors: so the Church, or congregation of believers, which
	before was regarded as the habitation of God, is now, from a
	different point of view, regarded as the pillar upholding the
	truth.