2. The existence of Church
	organization and presbyters at Ephesus is presupposed (1 Timothy 5:17;
	1 Timothy 5:19). The institution of
	Church widows (1 Timothy 5:3-25)
	accords with this. The directions here to Timothy, the president or
	apostolic delegate, are as to filling up vacancies among the
	bishops and deacons, or adding to their number. New churches
	in the neighborhood also would require presbyters and deacons.
	Episcopacy was adopted in apostolic times as the most expedient form
	of government, being most nearly in accordance with Jewish
	institutions, and so offering the less obstruction through Jewish
	prejudices to the progress of Christianity. The synagogue was
	governed by presbyters, "elders" (Acts 4:8;
	Acts 24:1), called also bishops
	or overseers. Three among them presided as "rulers of the
	synagogue," answering to "bishops" in the modern sense
	[LIGHTFOOT, Hebrew and
	Talmudic Exercitations], and one among them took the lead.
	AMBROSE (in The Duties
	of the Clergy [2.13], as also BINGHAM
	[Ecclesiastical Antiquities, 2.11]) says, "They who are
	now called bishops were originally called apostles. But those who
	ruled the Church after the death of the apostles had not the
	testimony of miracles, and were in many respects inferior. Therefore
	they thought it not decent to assume to themselves the name of
	apostles; but dividing the names, they left to presbyters the name of
	the presbytery, and they themselves were called bishops."
	"Presbyter" refers to the rank; "bishop,"
	to the office or function. Timothy (though not having the
	name) exercised the power at Ephesus then, which bishops in the
	modern sense more recently exercised. 
	blameless—"unexceptionable";
	giving no just handle for blame. 
	husband of one wife—confuting
	the celibacy of Rome's priesthood. Though the Jews practiced
	polygamy, yet as he is writing as to a Gentile Church, and as
	polygamy was never allowed among even laymen in the Church, the
	ancient interpretation that the prohibition here is against polygamy
	in a candidate bishop is not correct. It must, therefore, mean that,
	though laymen might lawfully marry again, candidates for the
	episcopate or presbytery were better to have been married only once.
	As in 1 Timothy 5:9, "wife of one
	man," implies a woman married but once; so "husband of one
	wife" here must mean the same. The feeling which prevailed among
	the Gentiles, as well as the Jews (compare as to Anna, Luke 2:36;
	Luke 2:37), against a second
	marriage would, on the ground of expediency and conciliation in
	matters indifferent and not involving compromise of principle,
	account for Paul's prohibition here in the case of one in so
	prominent a sphere as a bishop or a deacon. Hence the stress that is
	laid in the context on the repute in which the candidate for
	orders is held among those over whom he is to preside (Luke 2:37- :). The Council of Laodicea and the apostolic canons
	discountenanced second marriages, especially in the case of
	candidates for ordination. Of course second marriage being lawful,
	the undesirableness of it holds good only under special
	circumstances. It is implied here also, that he who has a wife and
	virtuous family, is to be preferred to a bachelor; for he who is
	himself bound to discharge the domestic duties mentioned here, is
	likely to be more attractive to those who have similar ties, for he
	teaches them not only by precept, but also by example (1 Timothy 3:4;
	1 Timothy 3:5). The Jews teach, a
	priest should be neither unmarried nor childless, lest he be
	unmerciful [BENGEL]. So in
	the synagogue, "no one shall offer up prayer in public, unless
	he be married" [in Colbo, ch. 65; VITRINGA,
	Synagogue and Temple]. 
	vigilant—literally,
	"sober"; ever on the watch, as sober men alone can be;
	keenly alive, so as to foresee what ought to be done (1 Timothy 3:5- :). 
	sober—sober-minded. 
	of good behaviour—Greek,
	"orderly." "Sober" refers to the inward
	mind; "orderly," to the outward behavior,
	tone, look, gait, dress. The new man bears somewhat of a sacred
	festival character, incompatible with all confusion, disorder,
	excess, violence, laxity, assumption, harshness, and meanness (1 Timothy 3:5- :) [BENGEL]. 
	apt to teach— (1 Timothy 3:5- :).