11. Greek, emphatical.
	"Himself" by His supreme power. "It is HE
	that gave," c. 
	gave some,
	apostles—Translate, "some to be apostles, and some to be
	prophets," &c. The men who filled the office, no less than
	the office itself, were a divine gift [EADIE].
	Ministers did not give themselves. Compare with the list here, 1 Corinthians 12:10
1 Corinthians 12:28. As the apostles,
	prophets, and evangelists were special and extraordinary ministers,
	so "pastors and teachers" are the ordinary stated ministers
	of a particular flock, including, probably, the bishops, presbyters,
	and deacons. Evangelists were itinerant preachers like our
	missionaries, as Philip the deacon (1 Corinthians 12:28- :); as contrasted with stationary "pastors and teachers"
	(2 Timothy 4:5). The evangelist
	founded the Church; the teacher built it up in the faith
	already received. The "pastor" had the outward rule
	and guidance of the Church: the bishop. As to revelation, the
	"evangelist" testified infallibly of the past; the
	"prophet," infallibly of the future. The prophet derived
	all from the Spirit; the evangelist, in the special case of the Four,
	recorded matter of fact, cognizable to the senses, under the Spirit's
	guidance. No one form of Church polity as permanently unalterable
	is laid down in the New Testament though the apostolical order of
	bishops, or presbyters, and deacons, superintended by higher
	overseers (called bishops after the apostolic times), has the highest
	sanction of primitive usage. In the case of the Jews, a fixed model
	of hierarchy and ceremonial unalterably bound the people, most
	minutely detailed in the law. In the New Testament, the absence of
	minute directions for Church government and ceremonies, shows that a
	fixed model was not designed; the general rule is obligatory
	as to ceremonies, "Let all things be done decently and in order"
	(compare Article XXXIV, Church of England); and that a succession of
	ministers be provided, not self-called, but "called to the work
	by men who have public authority given unto them in the congregation,
	to call and send ministers into the Lord's vineyard" [Article
	XXIII]. That the "pastors" here were the bishops and
	presbyters of the Church, is evident from Acts 20:28;
	1 Peter 5:1; 1 Peter 5:2,
	where the bishops' and presbyters' office is said to be
	"to feed" the flock. The term, "shepherd" or
	"pastor," is used of guiding and governing and not
	merely instructing, whence it is applied to kings,
	rather than prophets or priests (Ezekiel 34:23;
	Jeremiah 23:4). Compare the names of
	princes compounded of "pharnas," Hebrew,
	"pastor," Holophernes, Tis-saphernes (compare Jeremiah 23:4- :).