 20. ] Even in the case of the adult, this teaching must,  in greater part , follow his baptism; though as we have seen (on Mat 28:19 ), in  his exceptional case,  some of it must  go before . For this teaching is nothing less than the building up of the whole man into the obedience of Christ. In these words, inasmuch as the then living disciples  could not teach all nations , does the Lord  found the office of Preachers in his Church, with all that belongs to it, the duties of the  minister , the  school-teacher , the  scripture reader . This ‘  teaching ’ is not merely the κήρυγμα of the gospel not mere proclamation of the good news but the whole catechetical office of the Church upon and in the baptized.
	 καὶ ἰδοὺ  … ] These words imply and set forth the  Ascension , the manner of which is not related by our Evangelist.
	 ἐγώ  , I, in the fullest sense: not the  Divine Presence , as  distinguished from the Humanity of Christ. His Humanity is with us likewise. The vine lives in the branches. Stier remarks (vii. 277) the contrast between this ‘  I am with you ,’ and the view of Nicodemus ( Joh 3:2 ) ‘no man can do these miracles except  God be with him .’
	 μεθ  ʼ   ὑμ  . ] mainly,  by the promise of the Father ( Luk 24:49 )  which he has poured out on His Church . But the presence of the Spirit is the effect of the presence of Christ and the presence of Christ is part of the ἐδόθη above the effect of the well-pleasing of the Father. So that the mystery of His name Ἐμμανουήλ (with which, as Stier remarks, this Gospel begins and ends) is fulfilled God is  with us . And  πάσας τὰς ἡμέρας  all the (  appointed )  days for they are numbered by the Father, though by none but Him.
	 ἕως τῆς συντ  .   τ  .   αἰ  . ] that time of which they had heard in so many parables, and about which they had asked, ch. Mat 24:3 the completion of the  state of time . After that, He will be no more properly speaking  with us , but we  with Him ( Joh 17:24 ) where He is.
	To understand μεθ ʼ ὑμῶν only of the Apostles and their (?) successors, is to destroy the whole force of these most weighty words. Descending even into literal exactness, we may see that διδάσκοντες αὐτοὺς τηρεῖν πάντα ὅσα ἐνετειλάμην ὑμῖν , makes αὐτούς into ὑμεῖς , as soon as they are μεμαθητευμένοι . The command is to the UNIVERSAL CHURCH to be performed, in the nature of things, by her  ministers and  teachers , the manner of appointing which is not here prescribed, but to be learnt in the unfoldings of Providence recorded in the Acts of the Apostles, who by His special ordinance were the founders and first builders of that Church but whose office,  on that very account, precluded the idea of succession or renewal .
	That Matthew does not record the fact or manner of  the Ascension , is not to be used as a ground for any presumptions regarding the authenticity of the records of it which we possess. The narrative here is  suddenly brought to a termination ; that in John ends with an express declaration of its incompleteness. What reasons there may have been for the omission, either subjective, in the mind of the author of the Gospel, or objective, in the fragmentary character of the apostolic reports which are here put together, it is wholly out of our power, in this age of the world, to determine. As before remarked, the  fact itself is here and elsewhere in this Gospel (see ch. Matthew 22:44 ; Matthew 24:30 ; Matthew 25:14 ; Matthew 25:31 ; Mat 26:64 ) clearly  implied .