 19. ] οὖν (in rec [196] .) is probably a gloss, but an excellent one. It is the glorification of the Son by the Father through the Spirit, which is the foundation of the Church of Christ in all the world. And when we baptize into the Name (i.e. into the fulness of the consequence of the objective covenant, and the subjective confession) of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, it is  this which forms the ground and cause of our power to do so that this flesh of man, of which God hath made πάντα τὰ ἔθνη , is  glorified in the Person of our Redeemer , through whom we all have access by one Spirit to the Father.
	 [196] The  Textus Receptus or received text of the Greek Testament. Used in this Edition when elz and Steph agree
	 πορ  .   μαθ  . ] Demonstrably, this was not understood as spoken to the Apostles  only , but to all the brethren. Thus we read,  πάντες διεσπάρησαν … πλὴν τῶν ἀποστόλων ( Act 8:2 ):  οἱ μὲν οὖν  διασπαρέντες διῆλθον εὐαγγελιζόμενοι τὸν λόγον (ibid. Mat 28:4 ).
	There is peculiar meaning in  μαθητεύσατε  . All  power is given me go therefore and … subdue? Not so: the purpose of the Lord is to bring men to the  knowledge of the truth to work on and in their hearts, and lift them up to be partakers of the divine Nature. And therefore it is not ‘subdue,’ but  make disciples of (see below).  πάντα τὰ ἔθνη again is closely connected with πᾶσα ἐξουσία ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς .
	 πάντα τὰ ἔθνη ]  all nations, including the Jews. It is absurd to imagine that in these words of the Lord there is implied a  rejection of the Jews , in direct variance with his commands elsewhere, and also with the world-wide signification of ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς above. Besides, the (temporary) rejection of the Jews consists in this, that they are  numbered among πάντα τὰ ἔθνη , and not a peculiar people any longer: and are become, in the providence of God, the subjects of that preaching, of which by original title they ought to have been the promulgators. We find the first preachers of the gospel, so far from excepting the Jews, uniformly bearing their testimony to them  first . With regard to the difficulty which has been raised on these words, that if they had been thus spoken by the Lord, the Apostles would never have had any doubt about the admission of the Gentiles into the Church, I would answer, with Ebrard, Stier, De Wette, Meyer, and others, ‘that the Apostles  never had any doubt whatever about  admitting Gentiles, only whether they should not be  circumcised first.’ In this command, the prohibition of ch. Mat 10:5 is for ever removed.
	 βαπτίζοντες ] Both these present participles are the conditioning components of the imperative aor. preceding. The μαθητεύειν consists of two parts the  initiatory , admissory  rite , and the  subsequent teaching . It is much to be regretted that the rendering of μαθ . ‘  teach ,’ has in our Bibles clouded the meaning of these important words. It will be observed that in our Lord’s words, as in the Church, the process of ordinary discipleship is  from baptism to instruction i.e. is,  admission in infancy to the covenant , and  growing up into τηρεῖς πάντα κ . τ . λ . the  exception being, what circumstances rendered so frequent in the early Church,  instruction before baptism , in the case of  adults . On this we may also remark, that baptism as known to the Jews included, just as it does in the Acts (ch. Acts 16:15 ; Act 16:33 )  whole households  wives and children .
	As regards the command itself, no unprejudiced reader can doubt that it regards the  outward rite of BAPTISM, so well known in this Gospel as having been practised by John, and received by the Lord Himself. And thus it was immediately, and has been ever since, understood by the Church. As regards all attempts to explain away this sense, we may say even setting aside the testimony furnished by the Acts of the Apostles, that it is in the highest degree improbable that our Lord should have given, at a time when He was summing up the duties of his Church in such weighty words, a command couched in figurative or ambiguous language one which He must have known would be interpreted by his disciples, now long accustomed to the rite and its name, otherwise than He intended it.
	 εἰς τὸ ὄν  .… ] Reference is apparently made to the Baptism of the Lord Himself, where the whole Three Persons of the Godhead were in manifestation.
	Not τὰ ὀνόματα but  τὸ ὄνομα setting forth the Unity of the Godhead.
	It is unfortunate again here that our English Bibles do not give us the force of this εἰς . It should have been into, (as in Galatians 3:27 a [197] .,) both here and in 1 Corinthians 10:2 , and wherever the expression with εἰς is used. It imports, not only a  subjective recognition hereafter by the child of the truth implied in τὸ ὄνομα κ . τ . λ ., but an  objective admission into the covenant of Redemption  a putting on of Christ . Baptism is the  contract of espousal ( Eph 5:26 ) between Christ and his Church. Our word ‘  in ’ being retained both here and in our formula of Baptism, it should always be remembered that  the Sacramental declaration is contained in this word ; that it answers (as Stier has well observed, vii. 268) to the τοῦτό ἐστιν in the other Sacrament. On the difference between the  baptism of John , and  Christian baptism , see notes on ch. Matthew 3:11 : Acts 18:25 ; Acts 19:1-5 .
	 [197] alii = some cursive mss.