 20, 21 .] CONCLUDING EXHORTATION TO TIMOTHEUS.  O Timotheus (this personal address comes with great weight and solemnity: ‘appellat familiariter ut filium, cum gravitate et amore,’ Beng.),  keep the deposit (entrusted to thee: reff. 2 Tim. ( μὴ μειώσῃς · οὐκ ἔστι σά · τὰ ἀλλότρια ἐνεπιστεύθης · μηδὲν ἐλαττώσῃς , Chrys. I cannot forbear transcribing from Mack and Wiesinger the very beautiful comment of Vincentius Lirinensis in his Commonitorium (A.D. 434), § 22 f. p. 667 f.: “O Timothee, inquit, depositum custodi, devitans profanas vocum novitates (reading καινοφωνίας see var. readd.). ‘O!’ exclamatio ista et præscientiæ est pariter et caritatis. Prævidebat enim futuros, quos etiam prædolebat, errores. Quid est ‘depositum custodi?’ Custodi, inquit, propter fures, propter inimicos, ne dormientibus hominibus superseminent zizania super illud tritici bonum semen quod seminaverat filius hominis in agro suo. ‘Depositum,’ inquit, ‘custodi.’ Quid est ‘depositum?’ id est quod tibi creditum est, non quod a te inventum: quod accepisti, non quod excogitasti: rem non ingenii sed doctrinæ, non usurpationis privatæ sed publicæ traditionis: rem ad te perductam, non a te prolatam, in qua non auctor debes esse sed custos, non institutor sed sectator, non ducens sed sequens. ‘Depositum,’ inquit, ‘custodi:’ catholicæ fidei talentum inviolatum illibatumque conserva. Quod tibi creditum est, hoc penes te maneat, hoc a te tradatur. Aurum accepisti, aurum redde. Nolo mihi pro aliis alia subjicias, nolo pro auro aut impudenter plumbum, aut fraudulenter æramenta supponas: nolo auri speciem, sed naturam plane … Sed forsitan dicit aliquis: nullusne ergo in ecclesia Christi profectus habebitur religionis? Habeatur plane, et maximus … sed ita tamen, ut vere profectus sit ille fidei, non permutatio. Siquidem ad profectionem pertinet, ut in semetipsa unaquæque res amplificetur, ad permutationem vero, ut aliquid ex alio in aliud transvertatur. Crescat igitur oportet et multum vehementerque proficiat tam singulorum quam omnium, tam unius hominis quam totius ecclesiæ ætatum et seculorum gradibus, intelligentia, scientia, sapientia: sed in suo duntaxat genere, in eodem scilicet dogmate, eodem sensu, eademque sententia. Imitetur animarum religio rationem corporum, quæ licet annorum processu numeros suos evolvant et explicent, eadem tamen quæ erant permanent …”), viz., the sound doctrine which thou art to teach in thy ministry in the Lord, cf. Colossians 4:17 . This is the most probable explanation. Some regard it as the ἐντολή above, 1 Timothy 6:14 ; some as meaning the grace given to him for his office, or for his own spiritual life: but ch. 1 Timothy 1:18 , compared with 2 Timothy 2:2 , seems to fix the meaning as above. Herodotus has a very similar use of the word, ix. 45, ἄνδρες Ἀθηναῖοι , παραθήκην ὑμῖν τὰδε τὰ ἔπεα τίθεμαι . And with this the following agrees: for it is against  false doctrine that the Apostle cautions him),  turning away from (cf. ἀποτρέπου , 2Ti 3:5 )  the profane babblings (empty discourses: so also 2Ti 2:16 )  and oppositions (apparently, dialectic antitheses and niceties of the false teachers. The interpretations have been very various: Chrys. says, ὁρᾷς τῶς πὰλιν κελεύει μηδὲ ὁμόσε χωρεῖν πρὸς τοὺς τοιούτους ; ἐκτρεπόμενός , φησιν , τὰς ἀντιθέσεις . ἄρα εἰσὶν ἀντιθέσεις , πρὸς ἃς οὐδὲ ἀποκρίνεσθαι χρή ; understanding by ἀντιθ ., sayings of theirs opposed to this teaching. But this can hardly be. Grot., ‘nam ipsi inter se pugnabant:’ but this is as unlikely. Pelag., Luth., al., understand ‘disputations:’ Mosheim, the dualistic oppositions in the heretical systems: Mack, the contradictions which the heretics try to establish between the various doctrines of orthodoxy: Baur, the oppositions between the Gospel and the law maintained by Marcion. On this latter hypothesis, see Prolegomena. There would be no objection philologically to understanding ‘propositions opposed to thee;’ and τοὺς ἀντιδιατιθεμένους , cf. 2 Timothy 2:25 , would seem to bear out such meaning: but seeing that it is coupled with κενοφωνίας , it is much more probably something entirely subjective to the ψευδώνυμος γνῶσις )  of that which is falsely-named ( ὅταν γὰρ πίστις μὴ ᾖ , γνῶσις οὐκ ἔστι . Chrys.)  knowledge (the true γνῶσις , being one of the greatest gifts of the Spirit to the Church, was soon counterfeited by various systems of hybrid theology, calling themselves by this honoured name. In the Apostle’s time, the misnomer was already current: but we are not therefore justified in assuming that it had received so definite an application, as afterwards it did to the various forms of Gnostic heresy. All that we can hence gather is, that the true spiritual γνῶσις of the Christian was already being counterfeited by persons bearing the characteristics noticed in this Epistle. Whether these were the Gnostics themselves, or their precursors, we have examined in the Prolegomena to the Pastoral Epistles),