 17 .]  To those who are rich in this present world (no τοῖς before ἐν τῷ νῦν αἰ ., because πλούσιοι - ἐν - τῷ - νῦν - αἰῶνι is the designation of the persons spoken of. Had there been a distinction such as Chrys. brings out, εἰσὶ γὰρ καὶ ἄλλοι πλούσιοι ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι ( τῷ δὲ διορισμῷ ἁναγκαίως ἐχρήσατο · εἰσὶ γὰρ πλούσιοι καὶ τοῦ μέλλοντος αἰῶνος , οἱ τὸν μόνιμον πλοῦτον καὶ διαρκῆ κεκτημένοι . Thdrt.), the τοῖς would have been more naturally prefixed. Such a distinction would besides have been improbable, as drawing a line between the two characters, which it is the object of the exhortation to keep united in the same persons. See the distinction in Luk 12:21 )  give in charge not to be high-minded ( ταῦτα παραινεῖ , εἰδὼς ὅτι οὐδὲν οὕτω τίκτει τῦφον , καὶ ἀπόνοιαν , καὶ ἀλαζονείαν , ὡς χρήματα , Chrys.),  nor to place their hope (i.e. to have hoped, and continue to be hoping: see on ch. 1Ti 4:10 )  on the uncertainty (reff.)  of riches (not = τῷ πλούτῳ τῷ ἀδήλῳ , but far more forcible, hyperbolically representing the hope as reposed on the very quality in riches which least justified it. On the sense, Thdrt. says, ἄδηλον γὰρ τοῦ πλούτου τὸ κτῆμα · νῦν μὲν γὰρ παρὰ τούτῳ φοιτᾷ , νῦν δὲ πρὸς ἐκεῖνον μεταβαίνει · καὶ πολλοὺς ἔχων κυρίους , οὐδενός ἐστι κτῆμα . An uncertain author, in the Anthology, having complained of the fickleness of Fortune, says, μισῶ τὰ πάντα τῆς ἀδηλίας χάριν ),  but  in (see var. readd.: no distinction of meaning need be sought between ἐπί and ἐν : see Winer, edn. 6, § 50. 2)  God (‘transfertur Ejus officium ad divitias, si spes in iis locatur,’ Calv.),  who affordeth us all things richly ( πλοῦτος of a nobler and higher kind is included in His bounty: that βούλεσθαι πλουτεῖν which is a bane and snare in its worldly sense, will be far better attained in the course of his abundant mercies to them who hope in Him. And even those who would be wealthy without Him are in fact only made rich by His bountiful hand: ‘alias nemo foret πλούσιος ,’ Beng.)  for enjoyment (for the purpose of enjoying: cf. ch. 1 Timothy 4:3 , εἰς μετάλημψιν . The term  ἀπόλαυσις , the reaping enjoyment from, and so having done with (cf. ἀπέχω &c), forms a contrast to  ἠλπικέναι ἐπί , in which riches are not the subject of ἀπόλαυσις , but are looked on as a reliance for the future);  to do good (ref.: ‘to practise benevolence,’ as Conyb.),  to be rich in good works (honourable deeds: ἀγαθός is good towards another, καλός good in itself, noble, honourable),  to be free-givers, ready-contributors (Chrys. takes κοινωνικούς for affable, communicative, ὁμιλητικούς , φησι , προσηνεῖς : so also Thdrt.: τὸ μὲν ( εὐμεταδ .) ἐστι τῆς τῶν χρημάτων χορηγίας · τὸ δὲ τῆς τῶν ἠθῶν μετριότητος · κοινωνικοὺς γὰρ καλεῖν εἰώθαμεν τοὺς ἄτυφον ἦθος ἔχοντας . But it seems much better to take it of communicating their substance, as the verb in Galatians 6:6 , and κοινωνία in Hebrews 13:16 , where it is coupled with εὐποιΐα ), (  by this means ) (‘therefrom,’ implied in the ἀπό )  laying up for themselves as a treasure (hoarding up, not uncertain treasure for the life here, but a substantial pledge of that real and endless life which shall be hereafter. So that there is no difficulty whatever in the conjunction of ἀποθησαυρίζοντας θεμέλιον , and no need for the conjectures κειμήλιον (Le Clerc) or θέμα λίαν καλόν (! Lamb-Bos). For the expression, cf. ch. 1Ti 3:13 )  a good foundation (reff., and Luk 6:48 )  for the future (belongs to ἀποθησαυρίζοντας ),  that (in order that, as always: not the mere  result of the preceding: ‘as it were,’ says De W., ‘setting foot on this foundation,’ or firm ground)  they may lay hold of ( 1Ti 6:12 )  that which is really (reff.)  life (not merely the goods of this life, but the possession and substance of that other, which, as full of joy and everlasting, is the only true life).