 15, 16 .]  which in His own times (reff.: τουτέστι τοῖς προσήκουσι , τοῖς ὀφειλομένοις , Chrys. “Numerus pluralis observandus, brevitatem temporum non valde coarctans;” Bengel)  He shall manifest (make visible, cause to appear; “display,” Ellic.) (  who is )  the blessed ( ἡ αὐτομακαριότης , Chrys.)  and only Potentate (Baur, al., believe the polytheism or dualism of the Gnostics to be hinted at in μόνος : but this is very unlikely. The passage is not polemical: and cf. the same μόνος in Joh 17:3 ),  the King of kings and Lord of lords (this seems the place, on account of this same designation occurring in reff. Rev. applied to our Lord, to enquire whether these 1Ti 6:15-16 are said of the Father or of the Son. Chrys. holds very strongly the latter view: but surely the καιροῖς ἰδίοις , compared with καιρούς , οὓς ὁ πατὴρ ἔθετο ἐν τῇ ἰδίᾳ ἐξουσίᾳ , Acts 1:7 , determines for the former: so also does ὃν εἶδεν οὐδεὶς κ . τ . λ . 1 Timothy 6:16 , which Chrys. leaves untouched),  who only has immortality (Huther quotes (Ps-) Justin M., quæst. ad Orthod. 61, p. 464: μόνος ἔχων τὴν ἀθανασίαν λέγεται ὁ θεός , ὅτι οὐκ ἐκ θελήματος ἄλλου ταύτην ἔχει , καθάπερ οἱ λοιποὶ πάντες ἀθάνατοι , ἀλλ ʼ ἐκ τῆς οἰκείας οὐσίας . Bengel remarks: ‘Adjectivum  immortalis non exstat in N. T. sed ἄφθαρτος ,  incorruptibilis : neque ἀθάνατος aut ἀθανασία habent LXX. Utrumque habet Sapientiæ liber qui semper Græcus fuit’),  dwelling in light unapproachable ( ἄλλο τὸ φῶς αὐτὸς καὶ ἄλλο ὃ οἰκεῖ ; οὐκοῦν καὶ τόπῳ ἐμπεριείληπται ; ἄπαγε · οὐχ ἵνα τοῦτο νοήσωμεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα τὸ ἀκατάληπτον τῆς θείας φύσεως παραστήσῃ , φῶς οἰκεῖν αὐτὸν εἶπεν ἀπρόσιτον , οὕτω θεολογήσας ὡς ἦν αὐτῷ δυνατόν . Chrys.),  whom no one of men (ever) saw, nor can see (the Commentators quote Theophilus ad Autol., i. 5, p. 341: εἰ τῷ ἡλίῳ ἐλαχίστῳ ὄντι στοιχείῳ οὐ δύναται ἄνθρωπος ἀτενίσαι διὰ τὴν ὑπερβάλλουσαν θέρμην καὶ δύναμιν , πῶς οὐχὶ μᾶλλον τῇ τοῦ θεοῦ δόξῃ ἀνεκφράστῳ οὔσῃ ἄνθρωπος θνητὸς οὐ δύναται ἀντωπῆσαι ; These words, as compared with John 1:18 , seem to prove decisively that the whole description applies to the Father, not to the Son),  to whom be honour and power everlasting, Amen (see ch. 1 Timothy 1:17 , where a similar ascription occurs). Some of the Commentators (Mack, Schleierm.) think that 1Ti 6:15-16 are taken from an ecclesiastical hymn: and Mack has even arranged it metrically. See ch. 1 Timothy 3:16 , 2 Timothy 2:11 ff., notes.