 3 5 .]  Designation of those who oppose such wholesome teaching fervid indeed, and going further (see Prolegg.) than strict adherence to the limits of the context would require, but still suggested by, and returning to the context: cf. 1Ti 6:5 fin. and note.  If any man is a teacher of other ways (see on ch. 1 Timothy 1:3 ; sets up as an adviser of different conduct from that which I have above recommended),  and does not accede to (so a convert to the true faith was called προσήλυτος : and we have in Origen, ii. 255 (Wolf), προσιόντας τῷ λόγῳ in the sense of just converted, and in ib. 395, προσερχομένους τῷ θείῳ λόγῳ . So also Irenæus, in two places cited by Wolf: see also Philo in reff. There was therefore no need for Bentley’s conjecture, προσέχεται (see itacism in א [1] , var. read.) or προσέχει , or προσίσχεται , though the use of these is commoner: see ch. 1Ti 1:4 reff. Cf. also Ellic.’s note)  wholesome words (reff.), (  namely )  those of our Lord Jesus Christ (either, precepts given by Him respecting this duty of subjection, such as that Matthew 22:21 , which however seems rather far-fetched: or words agreeing with His teaching and expressing His will, which is more probable),  and to the doctrine which is according to (after the rules of)  piety, he is (the apodosis begins here, not as Mack, al., with the spurious ἀφίστασο , 1Ti 6:5 )  besotted with pride (see ch. 1 Timothy 3:6 , note),  knowing (being one who knows: not, ‘  although he knows’)  nothing (not οὐδέν , which would be used to express the bare fact of absolute ignorance or idiotcy),  but mad after (so Plato, Phædr. p. 228, ἀπαντήσας δὲ τῷ νοσοῦντι περὶ λόγων ἀκοήν , ἰδὼν μὲν ἰδὼν ἥσθη ὅτι ἕξοι τὸν συγκορυβαντιῶντα . Bengel and Wetst. quote from Plut. de laud. propr. p. 546 f, νοσεῖν περὶ δόξαν , de ira cohib. p. 460 d, ν . περὶ σφραγίδια πολυτελῆ ,  insanire amore gloriœ , vel  sigillorum pretiosorum . See more examples in Kypke. “ περί with a  genitive serves to mark an object as the central point, as it were, of he activity (e.g. 1 Corinthians 12:1 , the πνευμ . δῶρα formed as it were the centre of the ἄγνοια ): the further idea of any  action or  motion round it is supplied by περί with the accusative. Cf. Winer, edn. 6, § 47.  e : Donalds. Gr. § 482.” Ellicott)  questionings (reff.)  and disputes about words (see ref. The word is found only in ecclesiastical writers: see Wetst. Calv. explains it well, “contensiosas disputationes de verbis magis quam de rebus, vel, ut vulgo loquuntur, sine materia, aut subjecto”),  from which cometh envy, strife, evil speakings (the context of such passages as Colossians 3:8 , shews that it is not  blasphemy , properly so called ( ἐκ δὲ τῆς ἔριδος ἡ κατὰ τοῦ θεοῦ βλασφημία τολμᾶται , Thdrt.), but mutual slander and reproach which is here meant),  wicked suspicions (not  concerning God ( περὶ θεοῦ ἂ μὴ δεῖ ὑποπτεύομεν , Chrys.), but of one another: not “ ‘  opiniones malœ ,’ quales Diagoræ, non esse Deum,” as Grot.),  incessant quarrels ( δια - gives the sense of continuance; παρατριβή , primarily ‘  friction ,’ is found in later writers in the sense of irritating provocation, or hostile collision: so Polyb. ii. 36. 5, τὰ μὲν οὖν κατὰ Καρχηδονίους καὶ Ῥωμαίους ἀπὸ τούτων ἤδη τῶν καιρῶν ἐν ὑποψίαις ἦν πρὸς ἀλλήλους καὶ παρατριβαῖς : xxiii. 10. 4, διὰ τὴν πρὸς τὸν Φιλοποίμενα παρατριβήν : see also iv. 21. 5; xxi. 13. 5; xxiv. 3. 4. According to the other reading, παρά would give the sense of useless, vain, perverse, and διατριβή would be disputation, thus giving the sense ‘perverse disputing,’ as E. V. Chrys., Œc., Thdrt., explain our word ἀπὸ μεταφορᾶς τῶν ψωραλέων προβάτων (Œc.): and Chrys. says, καθάπερ τὰ ψωραλέα τῶν προβάτων παρατριβόμενα νόσου καὶ τὰ ὑγιαίνοντα ἐμπίπλησιν , οὕτω καὶ οὗτοι οἱ πονηροὶ ἄνδρες )  of men depraved in mind (reff.; and see Ellic. on the psychology and construction)  and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is gain (lit., ‘a gainful trade,’ as Conyb.: see reff.: and therefore do not teach contentment and acquiescence in God’s providence, as in 1 Timothy 6:6 ; but strive to make men discontented, and persuade them to use religion as a means of worldly bettering themselves).
	 [1] א The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .