 13 .]  I charge thee (ch. 1Ti 1:3 )  in the presence of God who endues all things with life (for the sense, see reff.: most probably a reference to αἰώνιος ζωή above: hardly, as De W., al., after Chrys., to the  resurrection , reminding him that death for Christ’s sake was not to be feared: for there is here no immediate allusion to  danger , but only to the duty of personal firmness in the faith in his own religious life),  and of Christ Jesus, who testified (‘  testari confessionem erat Domini,  confiteri confessionem erat Timo nei,’ Bengel. See Ellicott’s note)  before Pontius Pilate (De W., al. (and Ellicott: see below on ὁμολογ .) would render it, as in the Apostles’ creed, ‘  under Pontius Pilate :’ but the immediate reference here being to His  confession , it seems more natural to take the meaning, ‘coram:’ and so Chrys., who as a Greek, and familiar with the Creed, is a fair witness)  the good confession (viz. that whole testimony to the verity of his own Person and to the Truth, which we find in John 18:0 ., and which doubtless formed part of the oral apostolic teaching. Those who render ἐπί , ‘under,’ understand this  confession of our Lord’s  sufferings and death which at least is far-fetched.
	There is no necessity, with Huther, to require a strict parallel between the circumstances of the confession of our Lord and that of Timotheus, nor to infer in consequence of this verse that his confession must have been one before a heathen magistrate: it is the  fact of a confession having been made in both cases that is put in the foreground and that our Lord’s was made in the midst of danger and with death before him, is a powerful argument to firmness for his servant in his own confession. Another rendering of this verse is given by Mack, al.: it makes τὴν καλὴν ὁμολογίαν governed by παραγγέλλω , and understands by it the same confession as in 1 Timothy 6:12 ; ‘I enjoin on thee, in the presence … and of Christ Jesus who bore testimony before Pontius Pilate the good confession.’ But this is quite inadmissible. For it is opposed both to the sense of παραγγέλλω , and to the following context, in which ἡ ἐντολή , not ἡ καλὴ ὁμολογία , is the thing to be observed),  that thou keep (preserve: cf. ἄσπιλον below, and ch. 1Ti 5:22 )  the commandment (used not to designate any special command just given, but as a general compendium of the rule of the Gospel, after which our lives and thoughts must be regulated: cf. παραγγελία in the same sense, ch. 1Ti 1:5 )  without spot and without reproach (both epithets belong to τὴν ἐντολήν , not to σε , as most Commentators, some, as Est., maintaining that ἀνεπίληπτος can be used of persons only. But this De W. has shewn not to be the case: we have ἡ ἀνεπίληπτος τέχνη in Philo de opif. 22, vol. i. p. 15: ἀνεπιληπτότερον τὸ λεγόμενον in Plato, Phileb. p. 43 c. Besides, the ordinary construction with τηρεῖν is that the qualifying adjective should belong to its object: cf. ch. 1 Timothy 5:22 ; Jam 1:27 ; 2 Corinthians 11:9 . The commandment, entrusted to thee as a deposit (cf. 1Ti 6:20 ), must be kept by thee unstained and unreproached. Consult Ellic.’s note)  until the appearance (reff.)  of our Lord Jesus Christ ( τουτέστι , says Chrys., μέχρι τῆς σῆς τελευτῆς , μέχρι τῆς ἐξόδου . But surely both the usage of the word ἐπιφάνεια and the next verse should have kept him from this mistake. Far better Bengel: “fideles in praxi sua proponebant sibi diem Christi ut appropinquantem: nos solemus nobis horam mortis proponere.” We may fairly say that whatever impression is betrayed by the words that the coming of the Lord would be in Timotheus’s lifetime, is chastened and corrected by the καιροῖς ἰδίοις of the next verse.  That , the certainty of the coming in God’s own time, was a fixed truth respecting which the Apostle speaks with the authority of the Spirit: but the day and hour was hidden from him as from us: and from such passages as this we see that the apostolic age maintained that which ought to be the attitude of all ages, constant expectation of the Lord’s return)