 12 .]  Strive the good strife (see ref. and ch. 1 Timothy 1:18 ; 1 Corinthians 9:24 ff. Philippians 3:12 ff.)  of the faith (not ‘of faith,’ abstract and subjective: but that noble conflict which the faith, the profession of the soldier of Christ, entails on him),  lay hold upon (as the aim and object of the lifelong struggle; the prize to be gained: so that the second imperative is, as Winer well observes, edn. 6, § 43, not the mere result of the first, as in ‘divide et impera,’ but correlative with it and contemporaneous: ‘strive …, and while doing so, endeavour to attain’)  everlasting life, to which thou wast called (here apparently the image is dropped, and the realities of the Christian life spoken of. Some have supposed an allusion to the athletes being summoned by a herald: but it seems far-fetched and indeed inaccurate: for it was to the  contest , not to the  prize , that they were thus summoned),  and didst confess (we must not supply εἰς ἥν again before ὡμολόγησας , with Mack, al., ‘  in reference to which ,’ a most unnatural construction: but regard it, with De W., as simply coupled to ἐκλήθης )  the good confession (of faith in Christ:  the confession, which every servant of Christ must make, on taking upon himself His service, or professing it when called upon so to do. From the same expression in the next verse, it would seem, that the article rather represents the notoriousness of the confession, ‘bonam illam confessionem,’ than its definite general character. There is some uncertainty, to what occasion the Apostle here refers; whether to the baptism of Timotheus, so Chrys. (?), Œc., Thl. (alt.), Ambr., Grot., Beng., &c.: to his ordination as a minister, so Wolf, al.: to his appointment over the church at Ephesus, so Mack: to some confession made by him under persecution, so, justifying it by what follows, respecting our Lord, Huther, al. Of these the first appears to me most probable, as giving the most general sense to ἡ καλὴ ὁμολογία , and applying best to the immediate consideration of αἰώνιος ζωή , which is the common object of all Christians. The reference supposed by Thdrt. ( πάντας παρ ʼ αὐτοῦ δεξαμένους τὸ κήρυγμα μάρτυρας εἶχε τῆς καλῆς ὁμολογίας ), Calv., al., to Timotheus’s  preaching , is clearly inadmissible)  before many witnesses .