 10 .]  For the love of money is the (not ‘  a ,’ as Huther, Conyb., and Ellicott, after Middleton. A word like ῥίζα , a recognized part of a plant, does not require an article when placed as here in an emphatic position: we might have ἡ γὰρ ῥίζα , or ῥίζα γάρ : cf. 1 Corinthians 11:3 (which, notwithstanding what Ellic. has alleged against it, still appears to me to be strictly in point to shew that for which it is here adduced), παντὸς ἀνδρὸς ἡ κεφαλὴ ὁ χριστός ἐστιν , κεφαλὴ δὲ γυναικὸς ὁ ἀνήρ , κεφαλὴ δὲ τοῦ χριστοῦ ὁ θεός . Here in the first clause it is requisite to throw παντὸς ἀνδρός into emphasis: but had the arrangement been the same as that of the others, we should have read κεφαλή (not ἡ κεφ .) παντὸς ἀνδρὸς ὁ χριστός : but no one would therefore have thought of rendering ‘  a head’)  root of all evils (not, is the only root whence all evils spring: but is the root whence all (manner of evils may and as matter of fact do arise. So that De W.’s objections to the sentiment have no force: for neither does it follow (1) that the covetous man cannot possibly retain any virtuous disposition, nor (2) that there may not be other roots of evil besides covetousness: neither of these matters being in the Apostle’s view. So Diogenes Laert. vit. Diogen. (vi. 50), τὴν φιλαργυρίαν εἶπε μητρόπολιν πάντων σῶν κακῶν : and Philo de judice 3, vol. ii. p. 346, calls it ὁρμητήριον τῶν μεγίστων παρανομηματων . See other examples in Wetst.):  after which ( φιλαργυρία , see below)  some lusting (the method of expression, if strictly judged, is somewhat incorrect: for φιλαργυρία is of itself a desire or ὄρεξις , and men cannot be properly said ὀρέγεσθαι after it, but after its object ἀργύριον . Such inaccuracies are, however, often found in language, and we have examples of them in St. Paul elsewhere: e.g. ἐλπὶς βλεπομένη , Romans 8:24 , ἐλπίδα … ἣν καὶ αὐτοὶ οὗτοι προσδέχονται , Act 24:15 )  wandered away from the faith (ch. 1 Timothy 1:19 ; 1Ti 4:1 ),  and pierced themselves through (not all round’ or ‘all over,’ as Beza, Elsner, al.: the περί refers to the thing pierced  surrounding the instrument piercing : so περιπ . τὴν κεφαλὴν περὶ λόγχην , Plut. Galb. 27: see Palm and Rost, and Suicer, sub voce)  with many pains (the ὀδύναι being regarded as the weapons. ἄκανθαί εἰσιν αἱ ἐπιθυμίαι καὶ καθάπερ ἐν ἀκάνθαις , ὅθεν ἄν τις ἅψηται αὐτῶν , ᾕμαξε τὰς χεῖρας καὶ τραύματα ἐργάζεται · οὕτω καὶ ἀπὸ τῶν ἐπιθυμιῶν τὸ αὐτὸ πείσεται ὁ ταύταις ἐμπεσών , κ . τὴν ψυχὴν ἀλγηδόσι περιβαλεῖ . Chrys.).