Acts 27:41.  Falling into a place where two seas met. Assuming that the place of anchoring in the night was that which has been determined above, we have here one of the most remarkable helps for the identification of the exact place of St. Paul’s shipwreck. The word διθα ́ λασσος   denotes that which is intermediate between two broad surfaces of sea. This connecting link may be either land or water. The Greek word is equivalent to the Latin  bimaris  applied by Horace to Corinth, which is situated on an isthmus between two seas. But Strabo applies the term διθα ́ λασσος   to the Bosphorus, which is a strait between two seas. And such is its meaning here. As the ship parted from her anchors, when steered towards the shore, and impelled by the north-east wind rapidly moved towards the beach, those on board would observe on their right the small island of Salmonetta disengaging itself from the general coast, and showing a channel between itself and that coast. This was unexpected; and it impressed itself vividly on St. Luke’s mind, and he here records a fact vividly remembered.
	 They ran the ship aground. The Greek word here is one of those many technical naval terms which are used in this narrative with strict accuracy. In the Appendix to the article ‘Ship’ in the American edition of the  Dictionary of the Bible,  is a very important catalogue of catalogue of this kind.
	 The fore part stuck fast . . . but the hinder part was broken. Mr. Smith of Jordanhill, who was distinguished among scientific men for his successful study of the geology of coasts, enters very fully and carefully into the conditions of this part of the narrative, and shows that they are accurately met by the facts of the case. For this inquiry it must suffice to refer to his work on the  Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul.  Attention must be given also to what he says concerning the soundings of St. Paul’s Bay, which exactly correspond with what we read above (Acts 27:28). As to the holding ground (Acts 27:30), our  Sailing Directions  say of St. Paul’s Bay, that ‘while the cables hold there is no danger, as the anchors will never start.’
	