Acts 27:1.  When it was determined. It might seem that there had been some doubt whether the apostle after all was to be sent  into Italy.  Festus indeed had, in the first instance, decided on this course (Acts 25:12); but after a careful consultation with Agrippa (Acts 25:14-22), and after a full hearing of St. Paul in Agrippa’s presence (Acts 26:1-29), serious doubt was expressed (Acts 26:32) whether this was really a case for appeal to the emperor. The word ε ̓ κρι ́ θη  ,  however, may only mean that time for going to Italy was now fixed.
	 Certain other prisoners. Who they were, and under what circumstances they were going to Rome, we do not know. The same opportunity which was available for conveying any one group of prisoners would naturally be used for conveying others. See below on the next verse.
	 One named Julius, a centurion. Rather, ‘a centurion named Julius.’ The name being merely a praenomen, determines nothing. It may be remarked, however, that the Julian house, like the Cornelian (Acts 10:1), was an illustrious one in Italy. As to this Julius personally, we presently feel that we know a good deal of him through his character and his treatment of St. Paul. Like other centurions mentioned in the New Testament (Matthew 15:10; Mark 15:39; Acts 10:1), he commands our respect. We should especially compare the case of Cornelius in his connection with St. Peter.
	 Of Augustus’ band. More correctly, ‘of the Augustan cohort.’ Josephus tells us (  war, Acts 2:12  ; Acts 2:7, and Acts 2:12; Acts 2:5) that one cohort of the Roman garrison at Cæsarea in the time of Felix had this title, though most of the soldiers were recruited in Syria. Various cohorts, as well as legions, had honorary titles. We have an instance in Acts 10:1. We must not, however, identify the  Italic cohort  and the  Augustan cohort.  It is possible that the corps to which Julius belonged was a detachment of the Praetorian Guards. That he had an escort of soldiers with him is clear from Acts 27:31-32. Dr. Hackett gives a good illustration of the position of these detached Roman cohorts from Lord Macaulay, where he speaks of ‘a troop of dragoons, which did not form part of any regiment, as stationed near Berwick for the purpose of keeping the peace among the moss-troopers of the Border.’
	