Acts 27:40.  When they had taken up the anchors.  This was the first essential step. These anchors were, as we have seen (Acts 27:29), ‘cast out of the stern.’ When this was done, the ship was free for the full action of the wind, which was blowing towards the shore. The translation, however, is not quite accurate. They did not ‘take up’ the anchors, but cut the ropes which connected the ship with them. This is the meaning of περιελο ́ ντες ;   and it is evident from what follows, which, correctly rendered, is, ‘They committed them (i.e.   the anchors) to the sea,’ these anchors were of no further use, for it was known that the ship would be destroyed.
	 And loosed the rudder bands.  This phrase, for more reasons than one, demands careful attention. In the first place, the little word ἅμα is not noticed in the Authorised Version. What was done here was done simultaneously with the cutting away of the anchors. In the next place, the cutting away of the anchors was quite necessary for what was being done here. The true translation is ‘the bands of the rudders,’ the word ‘rudders’ being in the plural. See the Excursus at the end of this chapter. The rudders were now absolutely necessary in order to steer the ship precisely, so that she might take the ground at the right point. Moreover, the ropes which connected the snip with the anchors might possibly have been an impediment to the free action of the paddle-rudders. The anchors themselves could now be of no further use, the destruction of the ship being inevitable.
	 Raised up the mainsail to the wind. The sail which would have been the most useful for the purpose in hand would have been the foresail; and it is probable that this sail is meant. The Greek word ( α ̓ ρτε ́ μων )   which is employed here by St. Luke, is found in no other Greek author; but it is a familiar word in the more modern seafaring language of the Mediterranean. The Venetians gave this name to the largest sail, and this may have led to the use of the term ‘mainsail’ here; but in Venetian ships the foresail was the largest sail. See the Excursus. Dr. Humphry very appositely here refers to the familiar passage in  Juvenal  (xii. 68 ):
	‘Et quod superaverat unum,  Velo prora suo’ quoting the note of the Scholiast, ‘Id est arte-mone solo velificaverunt.’
	 Toward shore. Toward that particular beach ( το ̀ ν αι ̓ γιαλο ́ ν )   which had been observed.
	