Acts 27:3.  The next day we touched at Sidon. With a favourable wind this would be very easy. The distance was only sixty-seven miles; and six knots an hour would, as we shall see below, be under the natural speed of the ship under such circumstances. But a question arises here. Sidon lay due north of Cæsarea on the Phoenician coast, and the course to ‘the neighbourhood of Asia’ was west-north-west. We do not know all the circumstances of the case; but very good reasons can be given why the vessel should have touched at Sidon. She might have had passengers or merchandise to land or to take on board there. But other reasons can be given of a physical kind. We know from what follows that ‘the wind was contrary on leaving Sidon, and sufficiently strong also to force the vessel to take the northern side of Cyprus. Now, we learn from nautical authorities that north-westerly winds are prevalent in that part of the Levant. Moreover, a strong current sets to the north along the Phoenician coast, and is favourable to the progress of a ship in that direction. Hence it is very probable that the wind was blowing hard from the northwest from the first, and nothing was more natural than that the vessel should go into harbour at Sidon, even if no business required her presence there.
	 Julius courteously entreated (i.e.  treated)   Paul. Already we have a strong indication of the centurion’s friendly disposition, and of the influence gained by the apostle over him. It is highly probable that Julius had obtained in Cæsarea some knowledge of the character of St. Paul, and of the circumstances of his imprisonment, and even that he was there personally acquainted with him. See the special reference to military quarters in Acts 23:31-35, and compare Acts 24:23.
	 His friends. St. Paul’s name would be quite sufficient to secure the friendship of any Christians at Sidon. But it is almost certain that he had personal friends there. The Gospel had been actively diffused along this part of the coast, soon after the persecution which resulted in the death of Stephen (Acts 11:19). Barnabas had been sent along this coast from Jerusalem when news came of successful evangelization in Antioch (Acts 11:22), and he was directed to spread the Gospel as he went (see the note on that passage). And again, it was along the same route that Barnabas and Saul afterwards took the charitable relief from Antioch to Judæa. The Roman way by Tyre and Sidon was a well travelled road, with frequent communication among the towns which lay along the line. St. Paul himself had very recently been at Tyre (Acts 21:3), as well as at Ptolemais (Acts 21:7), and had held affectionate intercourse with the Christians at both places.
	 To refresh himself.  More literally,  to obtain friendly care.  Two particulars here naturally suggest themselves. First, we know that St. Paul had experience of delicate health; and this state of suffering must have been aggravated by his imprisonment of two years (Acts 24:27) at Cæsarea. Secondly, he had a long and circuitous voyage in prospect, at a bad season of the year; and some provision for his comfort was by no means a matter of light importance (see 2 Timothy 4:13; 2 Timothy 4:21).
	