 1 17. ] TRIUMPHAL ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM: CLEANSING OF THE TEMPLE. Mark 11:1-11 ; Mark 11:15 .Luke 19:29-44; Luke 19:29-44 .John 12:12-36; John 12:12-36 . This occurrence is related by all four Evangelists, with however some differences, doubtless easily accounted for, if we knew accurately the real detail of the circumstances in chronological order. In John ( Joh 12:1 ), our Lord came six days before the Passover to Bethany, where the anointing (of Mat 26:6-13 ) took place: and on the morrow, the triumphal entry into Jerusalem was made. According to Mark 11:11 , on the day of the triumphal entry He only entered the city, went to the temple, and  looked about on all things , and then, when now it was late in the evening, returned to Bethany, and  on the morrow the cleansing of the temple took place. The account in Luke, which is the fullest and most graphic of the four, agrees chronologically with that in the text. I would venture to suggest, that the supposition of the triumphal entry in Mark being related  a day too soon , will bring all into unison. If this be so, our Lord’s first entry into Jerusalem was  private : probably the journey was interrupted by a short stay at Bethany, so that He did not enter the city with the multitudes. That this was the fact, seems implied in Mark 11:11 . Then it was that, περιβλεψάμενος πάντα , He noticed the abuse in the temple, which next day He corrected. Then in the evening He went back with the twelve to Bethany, and the supper there, and anointing, took place. Meantime the Jews ( Joh 12:9 ) knew that He was at Bethany; and many went there that evening to see Him and Lazarus. (Query, had not Lazarus followed Him to Ephraim?) Then on the morrow multitudes came out to meet Him, and the triumphal entry took place, the weeping over the city ( Luk 19:41 ), and the cleansing of the temple. The cursing of the fig-tree occurred early that morning, as He was leaving Bethany with the twelve, and before the multitude met Him or the asses were sent for. (On Matthew’s narrative of this event see below on Matthew 21:18 .) According to this view, our narrative omits the supper at Bethany, and the anointing (in its right place), and passes to the events of the next day. On the day of the week when this entry happened, see note on John 12:1 .
	 Βηθφαγῆ = בֵּית פַּגֵא ,  the house of figs : a considerable suburb, nearer to Jerusalem than Bethany, and sometimes reckoned part of the city. No trace of it now remains: see ‘The Land and the Book,’ p. 697.