9. For—assigning the reason
	for desiring that the "reign" of himself and his fellow
	apostles with the Corinthians were come; namely, the present
	afflictions of the former. 
	I think—The Corinthians
	(1 Corinthians 3:18) "seemed"
	to (literally, as here, "thought") themselves "wise in
	this world." Paul, in contrast, "thinks" that God has
	sent forth him and his fellow ministers "last," that is,
	the lowest in this world. The apostles fared worse than even the
	prophets, who, though sometimes afflicted, were often honored
	(2 Kings 1:10; 2 Kings 5:9;
	2 Kings 8:9; 2 Kings 8:12).
	set forth—as a
	spectacle or gazing-stock. 
	us the apostles—Paul
	includes Apollos with the apostles, in the broader sense of the word;
	so Romans 16:7; 2 Corinthians 8:23
	(Greek for "messengers," apostles). 
	as it were appointed to
	death—as criminals condemned to die. 
	made a spectacle—literally,
	"a theatrical spectacle." So the Greek in 2 Corinthians 8:23- :, "made a gazing-stock by reproaches and
	afflictions." Criminals "condemned to die," in Paul's
	time, were exhibited as a gazing-stock to amuse the populace in the
	amphitheater. They were "set forth last" in the show, to
	fight with wild beasts. This explains the imagery of Paul here.
	(Compare TERTULLIAN [On
	Modesty, 14]). 
	the world—to the whole
	world, including "both angels and men"; "the whole
	family in heaven and earth" (2 Corinthians 8:23- :). As Jesus was "seen of angels" (2 Corinthians 8:23- :), so His followers are a spectacle to the holy angels who
	take a deep interest in all the progressive steps of redemption
	(Ephesians 3:10; 1 Peter 1:12).
	Paul tacitly implies that though "last" and lowest in the
	world's judgment, Christ's servants are deemed by angels a spectacle
	worthy of their most intense regard [CHRYSOSTOM].
	However, since "the world" is a comprehensive expression,
	and is applied in this Epistle to the evil especially (1 Corinthians 1:27;
	1 Corinthians 1:28), and since the
	spectators (in the image drawn from the amphitheater) gaze at the
	show with savage delight, rather than with sympathy for the
	sufferers, I think bad angels are included, besides good
	angels. ESTIUS makes the
	bad alone to be meant. But the generality of the term
	"angels," and its frequent use in a good sense, as well as
	Ephesians 3:10; 1 Peter 1:12,
	incline me to include good as well as bad angels,
	though, for the reasons stated above, the bad may be principally
	meant.