Matthew 10:2.  Apostles,  those sent out; the name was given when they were chosen (Luke 6:13), but was strictly applicable only after the occurrence here mentioned. On its fuller meaning see Acts 1:2 ff. Matthew mentions the Twelve in pairs, and it is probable that they were thus joined when sent out two by two (Mark 6:7).
	 The first, Simon, who is called Peter.  ‘First’ in all the lists; ‘first’ to confess the Messiahship of Christ, usually ‘first’ to speak both before and after the death of Christ. He was not the first to follow Christ; Andrew and John preceded him (John 1:37 ff.),   nor the first one called, since Philip was called long before him (John 1:43). In all bodies of men, one must be first although ‘first among equals.’ Peter was therefore  personally, not officially, ‘the first.’ As regards the  primacy of  Peter, all that can be admitted as historically proven, is a primacy of honor and influence, but without supremacy  of  jurisdiction. See chap. Matthew 16:18, and John 21:15-18. His character constituted him a leader, but he neither claimed nor possessed this position as one of office or rank. ‘Simon’ means ‘hearing,’ ‘answer’; on the name ‘Peter’ comp. chap. Matthew 16:18.
	 Andrew his brother.  The name is probably derived from, or related to, a Greek word, meaning ‘manly.’ He was the first (with John) to follow the Lord, and was called with his brother (chap. Matthew 4:18 ff.)
	 James the son of Zebedee.  The same name as ‘Jacob,’ and naturally common among the Jews. This one, usually called James the Elder, to distinguish him from the other James (Matthew 10:3), was the first of the Twelve to suffer martyrdom (Acts 12:2), as  John his brother  was the last survivor (on the name see chap. Matthew 3:1). The two brothers were called ‘Boanerges,’ according to Mark. John is generally considered the type of an affectionate character, as he was the bosom friend of the Lord. Tradition says he was the youngest of the Twelve. The name of their mother was Salome, as we learn from comparing Matthew 27:56 with Mark 15:40. In John 19:25 it is probable that the sister of the mother of Jesus refers to Salome; if so, these two brothers were cousins of our Lord.
	