5. Not by—Greek, "Out
	of"; "not as a result springing from works," c.
	of righteousness—Greek,
	"in righteousness," that is, wrought "in a
	state of righteousness": as "deeds . . . wrought in
	God." There was an utter absence in us of the element
	("righteousness") in which alone righteous works could be
	done, and so necessarily an absence of the works. "We neither
	did works of righteousness, nor were saved in consequence of them but
	His goodness did the whole" [THEOPHYLACT].
	we—emphatically opposed
	to "His." 
	mercy—the prompting
	cause of our salvation individually: "In pursuance of His
	mercy." His kindness and love to man were
	manifested in redemption once for all wrought by Him for mankind
	generally; His mercy is the prompting cause for our
	individual realization of it. Faith is presupposed as
	the instrument of our being "saved"; our being so, then, is
	spoken of as an accomplished fact. Faith is not mentioned, but
	only God's part. as Paul's object here is not to describe
	man's new state, but the saving agency of God in bringing
	about that state, independent of all merit on the man's part
	(see on Titus 3:4). 
	by—Greek,
	"through"; by means of. 
	the washing—rather,
	"the laver," that is, the baptismal font. 
	of regeneration—designed
	to be the visible instrument of regeneration. "The apostles are
	wont to draw an argument from the sacraments to prove the thing
	therein signified, because it ought to be a recognized principle
	among the godly, that God does not mark us with empty signs, but by
	His power inwardly makes good what He demonstrates by the outward
	sign. Wherefore baptism is congruously and truly called the laver
	of regeneration. We must connect the sign and thing signified, so
	as not to make the sign empty and ineffectual; and yet not, for the
	sake of honoring the sign, to detract from the Holy Spirit what is
	peculiarly His" [CALVIN],
	(1 Peter 3:21). Adult candidates
	for baptism are presupposed to have had repentance and faith (for
	Paul often assumes in faith and charity that those addressed are what
	they profess to be, though in fact some of them were not so, 1 Peter 3:21- :), in which case baptism would be the visible "laver or
	regeneration" to them, "faith being thereby confirmed,
	and grace increased, by virtue of prayer to God" [Article
	XXVII, Church of England]. Infants are charitably presumed to
	have received a grace in connection with their Christian descent, in
	answer to the believing prayers of their parents or guardians
	presenting them for baptism, which grace is visibly sealed and
	increased by baptism, "the laver of regeneration." They are
	presumed to be then regenerated, until years of developed
	consciousness prove whether they have been actually so or not.
	"Born of (from) water and (no 'of' in Greek) the Spirit."
	The Word is the remote and anterior instrument of the
	new birth; Baptism, the proximate instrument. The Word, the
	instrument to the individual; Baptism, in relation to the Society
	of Christians. The laver of cleansing stood outside the door of the
	tabernacle, wherein the priest had to wash before entering the Holy
	Place; so we must wash in the laver of regeneration before we can
	enter the Church, whose members are "a royal priesthood."
	"Baptism by the Spirit" (whereof water baptism is the
	designed accompanying seal) makes the difference between Christian
	baptism and that of John. As Paul presupposes the outward Church is
	the visible community of the redeemed, so he speaks of baptism on the
	supposition that it answers to its idea; that all that is inward
	belonging to its completeness accompanied the outward. Hence he here
	asserts of outward baptism whatever is involved in the believing
	appropriation of the divine facts which it symbolizes, whatever is
	realized when baptism fully corresponds to its original design. So 1 Peter 3:21- :; language holding good only of those in whom the inward
	living communion and outward baptism coalesce. "Saved us"
	applies fully to those truly regenerate alone; in a general sense it
	may include many who, though put within reach of salvation, shall not
	finally be saved. "Regeneration" occurs only once more in
	New Testament, Matthew 19:28, that
	is, the new birth of the heaven and earth at Christ's second
	coming to renew all material things, the human body included, when
	the creature, now travailing in labor-throes to the birth, shall be
	delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of
	the children of God. Regeneration, which now begins in the believer's
	soul, shall then be extended to his body, and thence to all creation.
	and renewing—not "the
	laver ('washing') of renewing," but "and BY
	the renewing," c., following "saved us." To make
	"renewing of the Holy Ghost" follow "the laver"
	would destroy the balance of the clauses of the sentence, and would
	make baptism the seal, not only of regeneration, but also of
	the subsequent process of progressive sanctification
	("renewing of the Holy Ghost"). Regeneration is a
	thing once for all done renewing is a process daily
	proceeding. As "the washing," or "laver," is
	connected with "regeneration," so the "renewing
	of the Holy Ghost" is connected with "shed on us
	abundantly" (Titus 3:6).