Strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age [τελειων δε εστιν η στερεα τροφη] . This rendering is clumsy. Rend. solid food is for full - grown men. For teleiwn full - grown, see on 1 Corinthians 2:6. Often by Paul, as here, in contrast with nhpioi immature Christians. See 1 Corinthians 2:6; 1 Corinthians 3:1; 1 Corinthians 13:11; Ephesians 4:4. Paul has the verb nhpiazein to be a child in 1 Corinthians 14:20. By reason of use [δια την εξιν] . For use rend. habitude. N. T. o. It is the condition produced by past exercise. Not the process as A. V., but the result. Their senses [τα αισθητηρια] . N. T. o. Organs of perception; perceptive faculties of the mind. In LXX see Jeremiah 4:19; Jeremiah 4:0 Macc. 2 22. Exercised [γεγυμνασμενα] . See on 2 Peter 2:14, and 1 Timothy 4:7. Good and evil. Not moral good and evil, but wholesome and corrupt doctrine. The implication is that the readers' condition is such as to prevent them from making this distinction. ===Hebrews 6:0 CHAPTER VI Some difficulty attaches to the first three verses, because the writer combines two thoughts : his own intention to proceed from elementary to more advanced teachings, and his readers' advance to that higher grade of spiritual receptiveness on which the effectiveness of his teaching must depend. The mistake in interpretation has been in insisting that the three verses treat only the one or the other thought. Observe that dio wherefore is connected with the rebuke in ch. 5 11, 12; and that that rebuke is directly connected with the announcement of the doctrine of the Melchisedec priesthood of Christ. The course of thought is as follows : Christ is a priest after the order of Melchisedec (ch. 5 10). There is much to be said on this subject, and it is hard to explain, because you have become dull, and need elementary teaching, whereas, by reason of your long Christian standing, you ought to be teachers yourselves (ch. 5 11, 12). For you all recognize the principle that baby - food is for babes, and solid food only for men, whose powers have been trained by habitual exercise (ch. 5 13, 14). Wherefore, in order that you may be aroused from your sluggishness and have your perceptions brought up to the matured condition which befits men in Christ, and in order that I may, at the same time, complete the development of my theme, I propose that we together move forward to completion : I to the full exposition of the subject of Christ 's high - priesthood, and you to that maturity of discernment which becomes you. This will require us both to leave the rudimentary stage of teaching concerning Christ.