He is now to show that Christ was under training for the priesthood, and describes the process of training. Who [ος] . Nominative to emaqen learned, ver. 8, to which all the participles are preparatory. In the days of his flesh [εν ταις ημεραις της σαρκος αυτου] . During his mortal life. When he had offered up prayers and supplications [δεησεις τε και ικετηριας προσενεγκας] . Dehseiv special, definite requests : iJkethriav, N. T. o, is properly an adjective, pertaining to or fit for suppliants, with rJabdouv staves or ejlaiav olive - branches understood. The olive - branch bound round with wool was held forth by a suppliant in token of his character as such. The phrase prosfrein N. T. o. 187 Unto him that was able to save him from death [προς τον δυναμενον σωζειν αυτον εκ θανατου] . Const. with prayers and supplications, not with offered. To save him from death may mean to deliver him from the fear of death, from the anguish of death, or from remaining a prey to death. In either case, the statement connects itself with the thought of Christ 's real humanity. He was under the pressure of a sore human need which required divine help, thus showing that he was like unto his brethren. He appealed to one who could answer his prayer. The purport of the prayer is not stated. It is at least suggested by Matthew 26:39. And was heard in that he feared [και εισακουσεις απο της ευλαβειας] . Rend. was heard on account of his godly fear. jEulabeia only here and ch. 12 28. The verb eujlabeisqai to act cautiously, beware, fear, only ch. 11 7. The image in the word is that of a cautious taking hold [λαμβανειν] and careful and respectful handling : hence piety of a devout and circumspect character, as that of Christ, who in his prayer took account of all things, not only his own desire, but his Father 's will. Eulabeia is ascribed to Christ as a human trait, see ch. Hebrews 12:28. He was heard, for his prayer was answered, whatever it may have been. God was able to save him from death altogether. He did not do this. He was able to sustain him under the anguish of death, and to give him strength to suffer the Father 's will : he was also able to deliver him from death by resurrection : both these he did. It is not impossible that both these may be combined in the statement he was heard. 188