When for the time ye ought to be teachers [οφειλοντες ειναι διδασκαλοι δια τον χρονον] . Rend. for when ye ought to be teachers by reason of the time. A. V. entirely obscures the true meaning, which is that, because of the time during which the readers have been under instruction, they ought to be able to instruct others. Again [παλιν] . Not with teach you, as A. V., but with ye have need. The position of the word is emphatic. Again ye have need of being taught the very rudiments of divine truth which ye were taught long ago. Which be [τινα] . A. V. takes the pronoun as interrogative [τινα] . Better indefinite as subject of didaskein teach. Rend. "ye have need that some one teach you." The first principles of the oracles [τα, στοιχεια της αρχης των λογιων] . Lit. the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles. The phrase stoiceia thv ajrchv N. T. o. It is = primary elements. For stoiceia see on Galatians 4:3. logion is a diminutive, meaning strictly a brief utterance, and used both in classical and biblical Greek of divine utterances. In Class. of prose oracles. Philo uses it of the O. T. prophecies, and his treatise on the Ten Commandments is entitledperi twn deka logiwn. In LXX often generally - "the word or words of the Lord," see Numbers 24:16; Deuteronomy 33:9; Psalms 11:6; Psalms 17:30, etc. It was used of the sayings of Jesus, see Polycarp, Ad Phil. 7. From the time of Philo, of any sacred writing, whether discourse or narrative. Papias and Irenaeus have ta kuriaka logia dominical oracles. 190 The meaning here is the O. T. sayings, especially those pointing to Christ. And are become [και γεγονατε] . As in ver. 11, implying degeneracy. The time was when you needed the strong meat of the word. Milk [γαλακτος] . Comp. 1 Corinthians 3:2. Answering to rudiments. Strong meat [στερεας τροφης] . Lit. solid meat. See on steadfast, 1 Peter 5:9. More advanced doctrinal teaching. The explanation of the Melchisedec priesthood to which the writer was about to pass involved the exhibition for the first time of the opposition of the N. T. economy of salvation to that of the old, and of the imperfection and abrogation of the O. T. priesthood. To apprehend this consequence of N. T. revelation required alert and matured minds. This is why he pauses to dwell on the sluggish mental and spiritual condition of his readers.