2. gave—Greek,
	"apportioned"; assigned as his portion. 
	tenth . . . of all—namely,
	the booty taken. The tithes given are closely associated with the
	priesthood: the mediating priest received them as a pledge of the
	giver's whole property being God's; and as he conveyed God's gifts to
	man (Hebrews 7:1, "blessed
	him"), so also man's gifts to God. Melchisedec is a sample of
	how God preserves, amidst general apostasy, an elect remnant. The
	meeting of Melchisedec and Abraham is the connecting link between to
	two dispensations, the patriarchal, represented by Melchisedec, who
	seems to have been specially consecrated by God as a
	KING-PRIEST, the highest
	form of that primitive system in which each father of a household was
	priest in it, and the Levitical, represented by Abraham, in which the
	priesthood was to be limited to one family of one tribe and one
	nation. The Levitical was parenthetical, and severed the kingdom and
	priesthood; the patriarchal was the true forerunner of Christ's,
	which, like Melchisedec's, unites the kingship and priesthood,
	and is not derived from other man, or transmitted to other man; but
	derived from God, and is transmitted in God to a never-ending
	perpetuity. Melchisedec's priesthood continueth in Christ for ever.
	For other points of superiority, see Hebrews 7:1- :. Melchisedec must have had some special consecration
	above the other patriarchs, as Abraham, who also exercised the
	priesthood; else Abraham would not have paid tithe to him as to a
	superior. His peculiar function seems to have been, by God's special
	call, KING-priest
	whereas no other "patriarch-priest" was also a
	God-consecrated king. 
	first being—Paul begins
	the mystical explanation of the historical fact (allegorical
	explanations being familiar to JEWS), by mentioning the significancy
	of the name. 
	righteousness—not
	merely righteous: so Christ. Hebrew "Malchi"
	means king: "Tzedek," righteousness.
King of Salem—not only
	his own name, but that of the city which he ruled, had a typical
	significance, namely, peace. Christ is the true Prince of
	peace. The peace which He brings is the fruit of
	righteousness.