40. But to sit on my right hand and
	on my left hand in not mine to give; but it shall be given to them
	for whom it is prepared—"of My Father" ( :-). The supplement which our translators have inserted is
	approved by some good interpreters, and the proper sense of the word
	rendered "but" is certainly in favor of it. But besides
	that it makes the statement too elliptical—leaving too many words
	to be supplied—it seems to make our Lord repudiate the right to
	assign to each of His people his place in the kingdom of glory; a
	thing which He nowhere else does, but rather the contrary. It is true
	that He says their place is "prepared for them by His Father."
	But that is true of their admission to heaven at all; and yet from
	His great white throne Jesus will Himself adjudicate the kingdom, and
	authoritatively invite into it those on His right hand, calling them
	the "blessed of His Father"; so little inconsistency is
	there between the eternal choice of them by His Father, and that
	public adjudication of them, not only to heaven in general, but each
	to his own position in it, which all Scripture assigns to Christ. The
	true rendering, then, of this clause, we take it, is this: "But
	to sit on My right hand and on My left hand is not Mine to give, save
	to them for whom it is prepared." When therefore He says, "It
	is not Mine to give," the meaning is, "I cannot give it as
	a favor to whomsoever I please, or on a principle of
	favoritism; it belongs exclusively to those for whom it is
	prepared," c. And if this be His meaning, it will be seen how
	far our Lord is from disclaiming the right to assign to each his
	proper place in His Kingdom that on the contrary, He expressly
	asserts it, merely announcing that the principle of distribution is
	quite different from what these petitioners supposed. Our Lord, it
	will be observed, does not deny the petition of James and
	John, or say they shall not occupy the place in His kingdom
	which they now improperly sought:—for aught we know, that may be
	their true place. All we are sure of is, that their asking it was
	displeasing to Him "to whom all judgment is committed," and
	so was not fitted to gain their object, but just the reverse. (See
	what is taught in  :-). One at least of these brethren, as ALFORD
	strikingly remarks, saw on the right and on the left hand of their
	Lord, as He hung upon the tree, the crucified thieves; and bitter
	indeed must have been the remembrance of this ambitious prayer at
	that moment.