20.For I fear He declares, in what way it tends to their edification, that his integrity should be vindicated, for, on the ground that he had come into contempt, many grew wanton, as it were, with loosened reins. Now respect for him would have been a means of leading them to repentance, for they would have listened to his admonitions. I fear, says he. This fear proceeded from love, for, unless he had been concerned as to their welfare, he would very readily have overlooked all this, from which he sought to obtain no personal advantage. For otherwise we are afraid to give occasion of offense, when we foresee that it will be hurtful to ourselves. And I shall be found by you. Here is a second ground of fear — lest he should be constrained to act with greater severity. Now it is a token not merely of love, but even of indulgence, to shun severity, and have recourse to milder measures. “As to my striving at present to maintain my authority, and endeavoring to bring you back to obedience, I do this, lest I should find occasion to punish your obstinacy more severely, if I come, and find among you nothing of amendment.” He teaches, accordingly, by his example, that mild remedies must always be resorted to by Pastors, for the correction of faults, before they have recourse to extreme severity; and, at the same time, that we must, by admonitions and reproofs, prevent the necessity of having recourse to the utmost rigor. Lest, by any means, there be contentions. He enumerates the vices, which chiefly prevailed among the Corinthians; almost all of which proceeded from the same source. For had not every one been devoted to self, they would never have contended with each other — they would never have envied one another — there would have been no slandering among them. (938) Thus the sum and substance of the first catalogue (939) is want of love, because (φιλαυτία) self-love, (940) and ambition prevailed. (938) “Ils n’eussent iamais mesdit l’vn de l’autre;” — “They would never have slandered one another.” (939) “Du premier denombrement de leur vices qu’il fait yci;” — “Of the first enumeration that he makes here of their vices.” (940) Calvin has here very probably in his eye 2 Timothy 3:2, in commenting on which, he calls his readers to remark, that the vice first noticed by the Apostle in that passage — self-love (φιλαυτία), may be considered to be the fountain, as it were, of all the other vices there enumerated by him — avarice, boasting, pride, etc. — See Calvin’s Harmony, vol. 2, p. 69, and vol. 3, p. 60; also Calvin’s Institutes, volume 1. 