1.It is not expedient for me to glory Now, when as it were in the middle of the course, he restrains himself from proceeding farther, and in this way he most appropriately reproves the impudence of his rivals and declares that it is with reluctance, that he engages in this sort of contest with them. For what a shame it was to scrape together from every quarter commendations, or rather to go a-begging for them, that they might be on a level with so distinguished a man! As to the latter, he admonishes them by his own example, that the more numerous and the more excellent the graces by which any one of us is distinguished, so much the less ought he to think of his own excellence. For such a thought is exceedingly dangerous, because, like one entering into a labyrinth, the person is immediately dazzled, so as to be too quick-sighted in discerning his gifts, (877) while in the mean time he is ignorant of himself. Paul is afraid, lest this should befall him. The graces conferred by God are, indeed, to be acknowledged, that we may be aroused, — first, to gratitude for them, and secondly, to the right improvement of them; but to take occasion from them to boast — that is what cannot be done without great danger. For I will come (878) to visions. “I shall not creep on the ground, but will be constrained to mount aloft. Hence I am afraid, lest the height of my gifts should hurry me on, so as to lead me to forget myself.” And certainly, if Paul had gloried ambitiously, he would have fallen headlong from a lofty eminence; for it is humility alone that can give stability to our greatness in the sight of God. Between visions and revelations there is this distinction — that a revelation is often made either in a dream, or by an oracle, without any thing being presented to the eye, while avision is scarcely ever afforded without a revelation, or in other words, without the Lord’s discovering what is meant by it. (879) (877) “Ses dons et graces;” — “His gifts and graces.” (878) “I will come Marg ‘For I will’ Our Translators have omitted (γὰρ), for, in the text, evidently supposing that it is a mere expletive. Doddridge renders it ‘nevertheless.’ But it seems to me that it contains an important sense, and that it should be rendered by then. ‘Since it is not fit that I should glory, then I will refer to visions, etc. I will turn away, then, from that subject, and come to another.’ Thus the word (γὰρ), for, is used in John 7:41, ‘Shall then (μὴ γὰρ) Christ come out of Galilee?’ Acts 8:31, ‘How can I then (τῶς γὰρ) except some man should guide me?’” — Barnes. Granville Penn renders the passage as follows: “Must I needs boast? It is not good indeed, yet I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.” This rendering he adopts, as corresponding with the reading of the Vat. and most ancient MS. Καυχᾶσθαι δεῖ οὐ συμφέρον μὲν ἐλεύσομαι δὲ εἰς ὀπτασίας καὶ ἀποκαλύψεις Κυρίου — Ed. (879) “C’est qu’il signfie en ce qui s’est presente a nous;” — “What he intends in what is presented to our view.” “Visions ” (ὀπτασίας) — symbolical representations of spiritual and celestial things, in which matters of the deepest importance are exhibited to the eve of the mind by a variety of emblems, the nature and properties of which serve to illustrate those spiritual things. — Revelations (ἀποκαλύψεις) — a manifestation of things not before known, and such as God alone can make known, because they are a part of his own inscrutable counsels.” — Dr A. Clarke. — Ed. 