12.The signs of an Apostle By the signs of an Apostle he means — the seals, that tend to confirm the evidence of his Apostleship, or, at least, for the proofs and evidences of it. “God has confirmed my Apostleship among you to such a degree, that it stands in no need of proof being adduced.” The first sign he makes mention of is patience — either because he had remained invincible, (925) by nobly withstanding all the assaults of Satan and his enemies, and on no occasion giving way; or because, regardless of his own distinction, he suffered all injuries patiently, endured in silence countless grievances, (926) and, by patience, overcame indignities. (927) For a virtue so heroic is, as it were, a heavenly seal, by which the Lord marks out his Apostles. He assigns the second place to miracles, for while he makes mention of signs and wonders and mighty deeds, he makes use of three terms, as he does elsewhere, (2 Thessalonians 2:9,) for expressing one and the same thing. Now he calls them signs, because they are not empty shows, but are appointed for the instruction of mankind — wonders, because they ought, by their novelty, to arouse men, and strike them with astonishment — and powers or mighty deeds, because they are more signal tokens of Divine power, (928) than what we behold in the ordinary course of nature. Farther, we know that this was the main design of miracles, when the gospel began to be preached — that its doctrine might have greater authority given to it. Hence, the more that any one was endowed with the power of working miracles, so much the more was his ministry confirmed, as has been stated in the fifteenth chapter of the Epistle to the Romans. (929) (925) “Il a tousiours demure inuincible, et ferme sans se reculer;” — “He has always remained invincible and firm, without shrinking back.” (926) “Il a laisse passer beaucoup de fascheries sans en faire semblant de rien ;” — “He has allowed many grievances to pass, without seeming to take any notice of them.” (927) “Beaucoup de lasches tours;” — “Many base tricks.” (928) “Ce sont exemples et tesmoignages plus excellent et euidens de la vertu Diuine;” — “Those are signal and manifest instances and evidences of Divine power.” (929) Calvin seems to refer here more particularly to the observations made by him, when commenting on Romans 15:18. “Hie nobilis est locus de miraculorum usu: nempe ut reverentiam obedientiamque Deo apud homines comparent. Sic apud Marcum (Mark 16:20,) legis, Dominum confirmasse doetrinam subsequentibus signis. Sic Lucas in Actis (Acts 14:3,) narrat, Dominum per miracula testimonium reddidisse sermoni gratiae suoe ; ” — “This is an admirable passage in reference to the use of miracles — that they may secure among men reverence and obedience towards God. Thus you read in Mark 16:20, that the Lord confirmed their doctrine by signs following. So also Luke, in Acts 14:3, relates that the Lord by miracles gave testimony to the word.of his grace. ” — Ed. 