16.But be it so. These words intimate, that Paul had been blamed by malevolent persons, as though he had in a clandestine way procured, through means of hired persons, what he had refused to receive with his own hands (934) — not that he had done any such thing, but they “measure others,” as they say, “by their own ell.” (935) For it is customary for the wicked impudently to impute to the servants of God, whatever they would themselves do, if they had it in their power. Hence, Paul is constrained, with the view of clearing himself of a charge impudently fabricated, (936) to defend the integrity of those whom he sent, for if they had committed any error, it would have been reckoned to his account. Now, who would be surprised at his being so cautious as to alms, when he had been harassed by such unfair judgments as to his conduct, after having made use of every precaution? (937) Let his case, however, be a warning to us, not to look upon it as a thing that is new and intolerable, if at any time we find occasion to answer similar calumnies; but, more especially, let this be an admonition to us to use strict caution, not to furnish any handle to revilers. For we see, that it is not enough to give evidence of being ourselves upright, if those, whose assistance we have made use of, are not, also, found to be so. Hence, our choice of them must not be made lightly, or as a matter of mere form, but with the utmost possible care. (934) “This passage is so far from being friendly to the exercise of guile, that it is a manifest disavowal of it. It is an irony. The Apostle does not describe what had actually been his conduct, but that of which he stood accused by the Corinthian teachers. They insinuated, that he was a sly, crafty man, going about preaching, persuading, and catching people with guile. Paul acknowledges, that he and his colleagues did, indeed, ‘persuade men,’ and could not do otherwise, for ‘the love of Christ constrained them.’ (2 Corinthians 5:11.) But he indignantly repels the insinuation of its being from mercenary motives. ‘We have wronged no man,’ says he, ‘we have corrupted no man; we have defrauded no man.’ (2 Corinthians 7:2.) Having denied the charge, he shows the absurdity of it. Mercenary men, who wish to draw people after them, have an end to answer: and ‘What end,’ says Paul, ‘could I have in view, in persuading you to embrace the gospel? Have I gained any thing by you? When I was with you, was I burdensome to you? No: nor, as things are, will I be burdensome. Yet being crafty, forsooth, I caught you with guile. ’” — Fuller’ s Works, volume 3. — Ed. (935) The reader will find the same proverb made use of by Calvin, when commenting on 1 Corinthians 7:36. (See vol. 1, p. 265.) He probably alludes, in both instances, to a sentiment of Horace: “Metiri se quenquam suo modulo ac pede verum est;” — “It is proper, that every one should measure himself by his own measure and foot.” (Hor. Epist. 1.7. 98.) — Ed. (936) “Pour refuter et repousser loin de soy le blasme qu’on auoit controuue impudemment;” — “With the view of repelling, and putting far away from himself the blame which they had inpudently contrived.” (937) “Veu qu’on semoit de luy des souspectons et iugemens si iniques, apres qu’il auoit si diligemment pourueu a toutes choses ?” — “Inasmuch as they propagated such unfair surmises and judgments respecting him, after he had so carefully used precaution as to every thing?” 