6.For if I should desire. Lest what he had said, as to his having no inclination to glory, should be turned into an occasion of calumny, and malevolent persons should reply — “You are not inclined for it, because it is not in your power, he anticipates such a reply. “I would have it quite in my power,” says he, “on good grounds; nor would I be justly accused of vanity, for I have ground to go upon, but I refrain from it.” He employs the term folly here in a different sense from what he had done previously, for even those that boast on good grounds act a silly and disgusting part, if there appears any thing of boasting or ambition. The folly, however, is more offensive and insufferable, if any one boasts groundlessly, or, in other words, pretends to be what he is not; for in that case there is impudence in addition to silliness. The Apostle here proceeded upon it as a set, tied matter, that his glorying was as humble as it was well founded. Erasmus has rendered it — “I spare you,” (897) but I prefer to understand it as meaning — “I refrain,” or, as I have rendered it, “I forbear.” Lest any one should think of me He adds the reason — because he is contented to occupy the station, which God has assigned him. “My appearance,” says he, “and speech do not give promise of any thing illustrious in me: I have no objection, therefore, to be lightly esteemed.” Here we perceive what great modesty there was in this man, inasmuch as he was not at all concerned on account of his meanness, which he discovered in his appearance and speech, while he was replenished with such a superiority of gifts. There would, however, be no inconsistency in explaining it in this way, that satisfied with the reality itself, he says nothing respecting himself, that he may thus reprove indirectly the false Apostles, who gloried in themselves as to many things, none of which were to be seen. What I mentioned first, however, is what I rather approve of. (897) The same rendering is given in Cranmer’s version, (1539,) “Neuerthelesse I spare you.” The Vulgate reads: “Parco autem;” — (“But I spare.”) This rendering is followed in Wiclif’s version, (1380,) Tyndale’s (1534,) and the Rheims version, (1582.) The Geneva version (1557) has: “but I refraine. ” — Joachim Camerarius remarks, that φείδομαι, is elliptical, as being used instead of φείδομαι τοῦ ἐρεῖν, or, τοῦ μεγαλαυχεῖν; — “I refrain from speaking, or from boasting.” — Ed. 