All things [παντα] . Regarded severally. The reference is to the infinite detail of creation, rather than to creation as a whole, which is expressed by ta panta, the all (Colossians 1:16). For this reason John avoids the word kosmov, the world, which denotes the world as a great system. Hence Bengel, quoted by Meyer, is wrong in referring to kosmw (the world) of ver. 10 as a parallel. Were made [εγενετο] . Literally, came into being, or became. Expressing the passage from nothingness into being, and the unfolding of a divine order. Compare. vv. 14, 17. Three words are used in the New Testament to express the act of creation : ktizein, to create (Revelation 4:11.; Revelation 10:6; Colossians 1:16); poiein, to make (Revelation 14:7; Mark 10:6), both of which refer to the Creator; and gignesqai, to become, which refers to that which is created. In Mark 10:6, both words occur. "From the beginning of the creation [κτισεως] God made" [εποιησεν] . So in Ephesians 2:10 : "We are His workmanship [ποιημα] , created [κτισθεντες] in Christ Jesus." Here the distinction is between the absolute being expressed by hn (see on ver. 1), and the coming into being of creation [εγενετο] . The same contrast occurs in vv. 6, 9. "A man sent from God came into being" [εγενετο] ; "the true Light was" [ην] . "The main conception of creation which is present in the writings of St. John is expressed by the first notice which he makes of it : All things came into being through the Word. This statement sets aside the notions of eternal matter and of inherent evil in matter. 'There was when' the world 'was not' (John 17:5, John 17:24); and, by implication, all things as made were good. The agency of the Word, 'who was God, ' again excludes both the idea of a Creator essentially inferior to God, and the idea of an abstract Monotheism in which there is no living relation between the creature and the Creator; for as all things come into being 'through' the Word, so they are supported 'in' Him (John 1:3; compare Colossians 1:16 sq.; Hebrews 1:3). And yet more, the use of the term ejgeneto, came into being, as distinguished from ejktisqh, were created, suggests the thought that creation is to be regarded (according to our apprehension) as a manifestation of a divine law of love. Thus creation (all things came into being through Him) answers to the Incarnation (the Word became flesh). All the unfolding and infolding of finite being to the last issue lies in the fulfillment of His will who is love" (Westcott, on 1 John 2:17). By Him [δι αυτου] . Literally, through him. The preposition dia is generally used to denote the working of God through some secondary agency, as dia tou profhtou, through the prophet (Matthew 1:22, on which see note). 11 It is the preposition by which the relation of Christ to creation is usually expressed (see 1 Corinthians 8:6; Colossians 1:16; Hebrews 1:2), though it is occasionally used of the Father (Hebrews 2:10; Romans 11:36, and Galatians 1:1, where it is used of both). Hence, as Godet remarks, it "does not lower the Word to the rank of a simple instrument," but merely implies a different relation to creation on the part of the Father and the Son. Without [χωρις] . Literally, apart from. Compare John 14:5. Was not anything made that was made [εγενετο ουδε εν ο γεγονεν] . Many authorities place the period after en, and join oJ genonen with what follows, rendering, "without Him was not anything made. That which hath been made was life in Him." 12 Made [εγενετο] , as before, came into being. Not anything [ουδε εν] . Literally, not even one thing. Compare on panta (all things) at the beginning of this verse. That was made [ο γεγονεν] . Rev., more correctly, that hath been made, observing the force of the perfect tense as distinguished from the aorist [εγενετο] . The latter tense points back to the work of creation considered as a definite act or series of acts in the beginning of time. The perfect tense indicates the continuance of things created; so that the full idea is, that which hath been made and exists. The combination of a positive and negative clause (compare ver. 20) is characteristic of John's style, as also of James'. See note on "wanting nothing," James 1:4.