 14 .]  Alexander the smith (Eustathius, on Hom. Od. γ . p. 139 (Wetst.), says, χαλκεὺς δὲ ὁ πρὸ βραχέων χρυσόχοος , κατὰ ὄνομα γενικὸν ἀπὸ πρώτου φανέντος μετάλλου . διὸ καὶ ὁ Ἥφαιστος χαλκεὺς ἐλέγετο , καὶ χαλκεύειν τὸ οἱανοῦν ἐλατὴν ὕλην σφύρᾳ παίειν . Similarly the Etymol. (ib.), ἀπὸ γὰρ τοῦ πρώτου φανέντος μετάλλου πάντας τοὺς δημιουργοὺς ἐκάλουν οὕτως οἱ παλαιοί . See ref. Gen., and 2 Chronicles 24:12 . Perhaps the same with the Alexander of 1 Timothy 1:20 , where see note. There is nothing here said, inconsistent with his being an Ephesian resident. It has been indeed supposed that he was at Rome, and that the following caution refers to Timotheus’s approaching visit: but the aor. ἐνεδείξατο seems to suit better the other hypothesis. It must ever remain uncertain, whether the Alexander whom we find put forward by the Jews in the Ephesian tumult, Acts 19:33-34 , is this same person: nothing in that narrative is against it. The title ὁ χαλκεύς may be intended to mark  another Alexander: but it may also be a mere cursory designation of the same person)  did to me much evil (such, as in E. V., is the nearest representation in our language of the phrase  κακὰ ἐνδείξασθαι . Cf. Genesis 50:15 , μή ποτε μνησικακήσῃ ἡμῖν Ἰωσὴφ καὶ ἀνταπόδομα ἀνταποδῷ ἡμῖν πάντα τὰ κακὰ ἃ ἐνεδειξάμεθα εἰς αὐτόν and 2 Timothy 4:17 , ἄφες αὐτοῖς … ὅτι πονηρά σοι ἐνεδείξαντο . In both these places ἐνδείξασθαι represents the Hebrew verb גָּמֹל , ‘affecit:’ similarly the Song of the Three Children, 2 Timothy 4:19 , ἐντραπείησαν πάντες οἱ ἐνδεικνύμενοι τοῖς δούλοις σου κακά : and 2Ma 13:9 , τοῖς δὲ φρονήμασιν ὁ βασιλεὺς βεβαρβαρωμένος ἤρχετο , τὰ χείριστα τῶν ἐπὶ τοῦ πατρὸς αὐτοῦ γεγονότων ἐνδειξόμενος τοῖς Ἰουδαίοις . This usage is easily explained. From the primary sense of the middle verb ‘  to manifest ,’ applied to a  subjective quality (reff. Tit., Heb., and εὔνοιαν , Aristoph. Plut. 785, γνώμην , Herod. viii. 141: al. in Lexx.), we have idiomatically the same sense applied to  objective facts in Hellenistic Greek: Palm and Rost give from Plutarch, ἐνδείξασθαι φιλανθρωπίας , a phrase intermediate between the two usages. Then in rendering ἐνδείξασθαί τινι κακά , it is for us to enquire, whether we shall be best expressing the mind of the original by changing the subjective ἐνδείξασθαι into an objective verb, or by changing the objective subst. κακά to a subjective quality ( κακίαν ): and the answer to this is clear. The κακά were facts which we must not disguise. The ἐνδείξασθαι , not the κακά , is used in an improper and secondary meaning; and therefore in rendering the phrase in a language which admits of no such idiom, it is the verb which must be made objective to suit the substantive, not vice versâ. Conyb.’s rendering, ‘  charged me with much evil ,’ as also his alternative, ‘  manifested many evil things (?)  against me ,’ would, it seems to me, require the active verb):  the Lord shall requite him according to his works (the optative of the rec. makes no real difficulty it is not personal revenge, but zeal for the cause of the Gospel which the wish would express, cf. 2Ti 4:16 below, where his own personal feelings were concerned):  whom do thou also beware of (see above, on Alexander);  for he exceedingly withstood our (better than ‘my,’ seeing that μοι occurs in the same sentence, and immediately follows. The plural may be used because the λόγοι were such as were common to all Christians arguments for, or declarations of, our common faith)  words .