 9 ff.]  Do thine endeavour (so also Tit 3:12 )  to come to me quickly (this desire that Timotheus should come to him, appears in ch. 2 Timothy 1:4 ; 2 Timothy 1:8 ; its reason is now specified):  for (I am almost alone)  Demas (mentioned Col 4:14 with Luke, as saluting the Colossians, and Philemon 1:24 , also with Luke (and others), as one of the Apostle’s συνεργοί )  deserted me, loving ( ἀγαπήσας (used perhaps in contrast to 2Ti 4:8 above) is contemporary with ἐγκατέλιπεν ‘  through love of :’ so Ellic. also, who has hardly represented me rightly, when he quotes me as holding the  temporal sense of the participle)  this present World ( τῆς ἀνέσεως ἐρασθείς , τοῦ ἀκινδύνου καὶ τοῦ ἀσφαλοῦς , μᾶλλον εἵλετο οἲκοι τρυφᾷν , ἢ μετ ʼ ἐμοῦ ταλαιπωρεῖσθαι καὶ συνδιαφέρειν μοι τοὺς παρόντας κινδύνους , Chrys.),  and went to Thessalonica (‘his birthplace,’says De W.: cf. οἴκοι , Chrys., above: but how ascertained? He may have gone there for the sake of traffic, which idea the ἀγαπήσας τὸν νῦν αἰῶνα would seem to support),  Crescens (not named elsewhere. He is said traditionally to have preached the Gospel in Galatia (Constt. apost. vii. 46, p. 1056), and, more recently (in Sophronius), to have founded the church at Vienne in  Gaul : this latter interpretation of Γαλατίαν ( τὰς Γαλλίας οὕτως ἐκάλεσεν , see var. readd.) Thdrt. also adopts. All this traditional fabric is probably raised by conjecture on this passage. Winer, Realw.)  to Galatia (see Prolegg. to Gal. § ii. 1),  Titus (Prolegg. to Titus, § i.)  to Dalmatia (part of the Roman province of Illyricum (Suet. Aug. 21. Tib. 9), on the coast of the Adriatic (Plin. iii. 22. Strabo, vii. p. 315), south of Liburnia (Plin. iii. 26), Winer, Realw. See the art. Dalmatia in Dr. Smith’s Dict. of Geography. Thdrt. says, referring to ἀγαπήσας τὸν νῦν αἰῶνα , οὗτοι (Crescens and Titus) τῆς κατηγορίας ἐκείνης ἐλεύθεροι · ὑπ αὐτοῦ γὰρ ἀπεστάλησαν τοῦ κηρύγματος ἕνεκα . But this hardly agrees with ἐπορεύθη , which must be understood with both names: see also the contrast in 2 Timothy 4:12 . They had certainly left the Apostle of their own accord: why, does not appear):  Luke (see Prolegg. to Luke’s Gospel, § i.)  is alone with me (De W.’s question, ‘where then was Aristarchus (2 Chronicles 4:10; 2 Chronicles 4:102 Chronicles 4:10 . Phm 1:24 )?’ is one which we have no means of answering: but we may venture this remark: a forger, such as De W. supposes the writer of this Epistle to be, would have taken good care to account for him).  Mark (Colossians 4:10 , note: Philemon 1:24 . John Mark, Act 15:38 )  take up (on thy way: so ἀναλαμβάνειν implies in the two first reff., and probably also here)  and bring with thee: for he is to me useful for the ministry (for help to me in my apostolic labours: not, as Conyb., ‘  his services are profitable to me ,’ adding in a note below, “ διακονίαν , not, ‘  the ministry,’ as E. V.:” no such conclusion can be drawn from the omission of the art. after a preposition, and least of all in these Epistles. Cf. θέμενος εἰς διακονίαν , ref. 1 Tim. Grot. suggests, ‘forte ob Latini sermonis consuetudinem’):  but (apparently a slight contrast is intended to those above, who ἐπορεύθησαν of their own accord)  Tychicus (see Eph 6:21 note)  I sent to Ephesus (on the various attempts to give an account of this journey, and its bearing on the question, whether Timotheus was at Ephesus at this time, see Prolegg. to this Epistle, § i. 5).