 18 .]  The Lord (Jesus)  shall deliver me from every evil work (see above: from every danger of faint-heartedness, and apostasy: so, even without adopting the above meaning of ἐκ στόματος λέοντος , Chrys., καὶ γὰρ καὶ τοῦτο τὸ δυνηθῆναι μέχρις αἵματος ἀντικαταστῆναι πρὸς τὴν ἁμαρτίαν , καὶ μὴ ἐνδοῦναι , ἑτέρου λέοντός ἐστι ῥύσασθαι , τοῦ διαβόλου . So also Grot., De W., al. The meaning adopted by Huther, Wiesinger, al., that the ἔργα πονηρά are  the works of his adversaries plotting against him, is totally beside the purpose: he had no such confidence ( 2Ti 4:6 ), nor would his conservation to Christ’s heavenly kingdom depend in the least upon such deliverance. Besides which, the correspondence of this declaration of confidence to the concluding petition of the Lord’s Prayer cannot surely be fortuitous, and then πονηροῦ , here joined to ἔργου as neuter, must be subjective, evil resulting from our  falling into temptation, not evil happening to us from without. It is hardly necessary to observe, that πονηροῦ here cannot be gen. masc., ‘of the evil one,’ as Pelagius and Mosheim, in De W.),  and shall preserve me safe (  σώσει in its not uncommon, pregnant sense of ‘bring safe:’ cf. σώζειν πόλινδε , Il. ε . 224; ἐς οἴκους , Soph. Philoct. 311; ἐς τὴν Ἑλλάδα , Xen. An. vi. 4. 8:6. 23, al. freq.)  unto his kingdom in heaven (though it may be conceded to De W. that this expression is not otherwise found in St. Paul, it is one to which his existing expressions easily lead on: e.g. Philippians 1:23 , compared with Php 3:20 ):  to whom be the glory unto the ages of ages, Amen (it is again objected, that in St. Paul we never find doxologies ascribing glory to  Christ , but always to God. This however is not strictly true: cf. Romans 9:6 . And even if it were, the whole train of thought here leading naturally on to the ascription of such doxology, why should it not occur for the first and only time? It would seem to be an axiom with some critics, that a writer can never use an expression once only. If the expression be entirely out of keeping with his usual thoughts and diction, this may be a sound inference: but this is certainly not the case in the present instance. Besides, the petition of the Lord’s Prayer having been transferred to our Lord as its fulfiller (cf. Joh 14:13-14 ), the doxology, which seems to have come into liturgical use almost as soon as the prayer itself (sea Mat 6:13 var. readd.), would naturally suggest a corresponding doxology here).