 2 .]  proclaim (notice the sudden and unconnected aorists. Ellic. well observes after Schoemann, Isæus, p. 235, that the use of the imper. aor. seems often due, both in the N. T. and in classical authors, to the “lubitus aut affectus loquentis”)  the word (of God. The construction after διαμ . is carried on in 1Ti 5:21 with ἵνα : in our ch. 2Ti 2:14 with infinitives: here with simple imperatives, which is more abrupt and forcible),  press on (  ἐπίστηθι is generally referred to the last clause ‘be diligent in preaching:’ μετ ʼ ἐπιμονῆς κ . ἐπιστασίας λάλησον , as Thl.: and Thdrt., οὐχ ἁπλῶς καὶ ὡς ἔτυχεν αὐτὸν κηρύττειν παρεγγυᾷ , ἀλλὰ πάντα καιρὸν ἐπιτήδειον πρὸς τοῦτο νομίζειν . De W. doubts this meaning being justified, and would rather keep the verb to its simpler meaning ‘accede (ad cœtus Christianos),’ as Bretsch. and so Huther. But there seems no need to confine the sense so narrowly. The quotations in De W. himself justify the meaning of ‘press on,’ ‘be urgent,’ generally: not perhaps in preaching only, but in the whole work of the ministry. Cf. Demosth. p. 1187. 6, ἐπειδὴ … ἐφειστήκει δ ʼ αὐτῷ Καλλίστρατος καὶ Ἰφικράτης … οὕτω δὲ διέθεσαν ὑμᾶς κατηγοροῦντες αὐτοῦ , ‘pressed upon him,’ ‘urgebant eum:’ id. p. 70. 16, διὰ ταῦτ ʼ ἐγρήγορεν ἐφέστηκεν , …)  in season, out of season ( μὴ καιρὸν ἔχε ὡρισμένον , ἀεὶ σοὶ καιρὸς ἔστω · μὴ ἐν εἰρήνῃ , μὴ ἐν ἀδείᾳ , μηδὲ ἐν ἐκκλησίᾳ καθήμενος μόνον · κἂν ἐν τοῖς κινδύνοις , κἂν ἐν δεσμωτηρίῳ ᾖς , κἂν ἅλυσιν περικείμενος , κἂν μέλλῃς ἐξιέναι ἐπὶ θάνατον , καὶ παρ ʼ αὐτὸν τὸν καιρὸν ἔλεγξον , μὴ ὑποσταλῇς ἐπιτιμῆσαι · τότε γὰρ καὶ ἡ ἐπιτίμησις ἔχει καιρόν , ὅταν ὁ ἔλεγχος προχωρήσῃ , ὅταν ἀποδειχθῇ τὸ ἔργον , Chrys. I cannot forbear also transcribing a very beautiful passage cited by Suicer i. 146 from the same father, Hom. xxx. vol. v. p. 221: ἂν δ ʼ ἄρα τοῖς αὐτοῖς ἐπιμένωσι καὶ μετὰ τὴν παραίνεσιν , οὐδὲ οὕτως ἡμεῖς ἀποστησόμεθα τῆς πρὸς αὐτοὺς συμβουλῆς . καὶ γὰρ καὶ κρῆναι , κἂν μηδεὶς ὑδρεύηται , ῥέουσι · καὶ οἱ ποταμοί , κἂν μηδεὶς πίνῃ , τρέχουσι . δεῖ τοίνυν καὶ τὸν λέγοντα , κἂν μηδεὶς προσέχῃ , τὰ παρ ʼ ἑαυτοῦ πάντα πληροῦν · καὶ γὰρ νόμος ἡμῖν , τοῖς τὴν τοῦ λόγου διακονίαν ἐγκεχειρισμένοις , παρὰ τοῦ φιλανθρώπου κεῖται θεοῦ , μηδέποτε τὰ παρ ʼ ἑαυτοῦ ἐλλιμπάνειν , μηδὲ σιγᾷν , κἂν ἀκούῃ τις , κἂν παρατρέχῃ . This latter passage gives the more correct reference, not so much to  his opportunities, as the former, but to  theirs (as Ellic. quotes from Aug. on Psalms 128:0 , vol. iv. p. 1689, “sonet verbum Dei volentibus opportune, nolentibus importune”). Bengel, from Pricæus, gives examples of similar expressions: “Nicetas Choniates, παιδαγωγῷ ἐμβριθεῖ ἐοικώς ,  εὐκαίρως ἀκαίρως ἐπέπληττεν . Julian: ἐπορεύετο ἐπὶ τὰς τῶν φίλων οἰκίας  ἄκλητος κεκλημένος . Virgilii: ‘  digna indigna pati,’ Terentii: ‘cum milite isto  præsens absens ut sies.’ ” So  fanda nefanda, plus minus, nolens volens , &c.),  convict, rebuke (reff.),  exhort, in (not ‘  with ;’ it is not the  accompaniment of the actions, but the element, the temper in which they are to be performed)  all (possible)  long-suffering and teaching (not subjective, ‘  perseverance in teaching ,’ as Conyb.; but ‘  teaching ’ itself: it (objective) is to be the element in which these acts take place, as well as μακροθυμία (subjective). The junction is harsh, but not therefore to be avoided. Of course, hendiadys (= ἐν πάσῃ μακροθυμίᾳ διδαχῆς , Grot., Rosenm.) is out of the question. On διδαχή and διδασκαλία , see Ellicott’s note).