 13 .]  The cloak ( φελόνης is said to be a corrupted form of φαινόλης , lat.  pænula , a thick outer cloak: but as early as Chrys., there has been a doubt whether this is the meaning here. He says, φελόνην ἐνταῦθα τὸ ἱμάτιον λέγει , τινὲς δέ φασι τὸ γλωσσόκομον (bag or case, Joh 13:29 ) ἔνθα τὰ βιβλία ἔκειτο : and so Syr. and all.: but it is against this idea, as indeed Bengel remarks, that the books should be  afterwards mentioned . It would be unnatural, in case a bag of books had been left behind, to ask a friend to bring the bag,  also the books , and  especially the parchments : ‘the bag of books and parchments which I left’ would be its most obvious designation. A long discussion of the meanings of φελόνης , and of the question whether it is rightly supposed to be a corruption from φαινόλης , may be found in Wolf ad loc.: see also Ellic. The Jews also had the word פליון for a cloak)  which I left (behind me: οἱ δι ʼ ἀσθένειαν ἀπολειφθέντες , Xen. Mem. iv. 1. 32: for what reason, is not clear: but in St. Paul’s life of perils, it may well be conceived that he may have been obliged to leave such things behind, against his intention)  in Troas (respecting his having been at Troas lately, see Prolegg. to Past. Epp. § ii. 16, 30, 31)  with (‘chez’)  Karpus when thou art coming (setting out to come)  bring, and the books (i.e. papyrus rolls: on these, and on μεμβράνας , see Dict. of Antiquities, art. Liber. τί δὲ αὐτῷ βιβλίων ἔδει μέλλοντι ἀποδημεῖν πρὸς τὸν θεόν ; καὶ μάλιστα ἔδει , ὥστε αὐτὰ τοῖς πιστοῖς παραθέσθαι , καὶ ἀντὶ τῆς αὐτοῦ διδασκαλίας ἔχειν αὐτά . Chrys. This may have been so: but there is nothing inconsistent with his near prospect of death, in a desire to have his cloak and books during the approaching winter),  especially the parchments (which as more costly, probably contained the more valuable writings: perhaps the sacred books themselves. On a possible allusion to these books, &c., which the Apostle had with him in his imprisonment at Cæsarea, see note, Act 26:24 ).