 8 .]  henceforth (perhaps this adverb expresses  λοιπόν better than any other. It appears to be used in later Greek, from Polybius downwards, in this sense of ‘proinde,’ ‘itaque:’ cf. Polyb. ii. 68. 9; iv. 32. 5; x. 45. 2)  there is laid up (reff.)  for me the (not ‘  a ,’ as E. V.)  crown (reff., and cf. Php 3:14 )  of righteousness (i.e. the bestowal of which is conditional on the substantiation and recognition of righteousness q. d. ‘a crown among the righteous:’ τὸν τοῖς δικαίοις ηὐτρεπισμένον λέγει , Thdrt.: and so De W. after Chrys., δικαιοσύνην ἐνταῦθα πάλιν τὴν καθόλου φησὶν ἀρετήν . This is better than with Huther, al., to take the gen. as one  appositionis , as in James 1:12 , ὁ στ . τῆς ζωῆς : and 1 Peter 5:4 , ὁ τῆς δόξης στ .: both these, ζωή and δόξα , may well constitute the crown, but it is not easy to say how δικαιοσύνη can. Thdrt.’s alternative, τὸν δικαίᾳ ψήφῳ δωρούμενον (so Heydenr., Matth., al.), is equally objectionable. There is, as Calv. has shewn, no sort of inconsistency here with the doctrines of grace: “neque enim gratuita justificatio quæ nobis per fidem confertur, cum operum remuneratione pugnat quin potius rite conveniunt ista duo, gratis justificari hominem Christi beneficio, et tamen operum mercedem coram Deo relaturum. Nam simulatque nos in gratiam recipit Deus, opera quoque nostra grata habet, ut præmio quoque (licet indebito) dignetur.” See further on this point Estius’s note, and Conc. Trident. Canones, Sess. vi. c. 16, where the remarkable expression is quoted from the Epist. of Pope Cælestinus I. 12, “Dei tanta est erga omnes homines bonitas, ut eorum velit esse merita, quæ sunt ipsius dona”),  which the Lord (Christ: cf. ἐπιφάν . αὐτοῦ below)  shall award (more than ‘give:’ see reff., and Matthew 6:4 ; Matthew 6:6 , &c., Matthew 16:27 ; the idea of  requital should be expressed. Compare however Ellicott’s note)  me in that day (reff.),  the righteous (subj., ‘  just ;’ but the word ‘righteous’ should be kept as answering to ‘righteousness’ above)  judge (see Acts 10:42 . In this assertion of just judgment, there is nothing, as De W. imagines, to controvert the doctrines of grace: see above);  and (but)  not only to me (better than ‘not to me only,’ E. V., &c. ( οὐδὲ ἐμοὶ μόνῳ ), which though true, does not correctly represent the sense),  but also to all who have loved (who shall then be found to have loved and still to be loving, see Winer, edn. 6, § 40. 4 a:  loved , i.e. (reff.) looked forward with earnest joy to)  His appearing ( 2Ti 4:1 ).