 16 .]  In my first defence (open self-defence, before a court of justice, see reff. For a discussion of this whole matter, see the Prolegg. and Ellic.’s note. I will only remark here, that any other defence than one made  at Rome , in the latter years of the Apostle’s life, is out of the question)  no one came forward with me (“verbum συμπαραγίνεσθαι indicat patronos et amicos, qui alios, ad causam dicendam vocatos, nunc præsentia sua, nunc etiam oratione (not in the time of Cicero, who clearly distinguishes, De Orat. ii. 74, between the orator or  patronus , and the  advocati : speaking of the former he says, ‘orat reus, urgent advocati ut invehamur, ut maledicamus, &c.’ But in Tacit. Annal. xi. 6, the orators are called  advocati ) adjuvare solebant. Id Cicero, cap. 29, pro Sulla,  adesse supplici , et cap. 14, pro Milone, simpliciter  adesse dicit. Græci dicunt nunc παραγίνεσθαι , nunc παρεῖναι , nunc συμπαρεῖναι .” Wolf. So Demosth., κατὰ Νεαίρας , 1369. 17, συμπαραγενόμενος αὐτῷ δοκιμαζομένῳ ),  but all men deserted me: may it not be laid to their charge (by God: reff. τὴν πατρικὴν περὶ αὐτῶν ἔδειξεν εὐσπλαγχνίαν . οὐ κακοηθείας ἦν , ἀλλὰ δειλίας ἡ ὑποχώρησις , Thdrt.):  but the Lord (Jesus)  stood by me, and strengthened (‘  put strength in :’ a word especially used of and by our Apostle, reff.)  me, that by my means the proclamation (of the Gospel)  might be delivered in full measure (see on 2Ti 4:5 )  and all the Gentiles might hear (one is tempted, with Thdrt., al., to interpret this of his preservation for further missionary journeys (Thdrt. thinks this defence happened  during his journey to Spain): but the spirit of the whole context seems to forbid this, and to compel us to confine this πληροφορία to the effect of the single occasion referred to, his acquittal before the ‘corona populi,’ in whose presence the trials took place: so Bengel “una sæpe occasio maximi est momenti:  gentes quarum Roma caput.” And so Huther and Wiesinger, and in the main, De W.):  and I was delivered from the mouth of the lion (the Fathers mostly understood this of  Nero : so Chrys. Thdrt., Thl., Œc., Euseb., &c.: see Suicer, ii. p. 233. And Esth. (add.) 14:13, E. V., is quoted, “where Esther says concerning Artaxerxes, Put a word into my mouth ἐνώπιον τοῦ λέοντος .” Whitby: or, seeing that according to the chronology adopted by some, he was not in Rome at the time (see Prolegomena to Past. Epp. § ii. 33), of his  locum tenens, Helius Cæsareanus : so Pearson, Annales Paulini, p. 24, or of the  Jewish accuser , as Wieseler, Chron. 2. p. 476. But these are hardly probable: nor again is it, that the Apostle was literally in danger of being thrown to wild beasts, and established his right as a Roman citizen to be exempted from that punishment (Bengel’s objection to this, ‘ex ore  leonum diceret, si proprie bestias innueret,’ is of no force: as the popular cry ‘Christianos ad leonem’ shews: see also ref. Psalm, of which doubtless the words were a reminiscence): nor again is the idea (Calv., Ellic., al.), that the expression is figurative for  great danger, the jaws of death , or the like: for the Apostle  did not fear death, but looked forward to it as the end of his course, and certainly would not have spoken of it under this image. The  context seems to me to demand another and very different interpretation. None stood with him all forsook him: but the Lord stood by him and strengthened him:  for what? that he might  witness a good confession , and that the κήρυγμα might be expanded to the utmost. The result of this strengthening was, that he was delivered ἐκ στόματος λέοντος : he was strengthened,  witnessed a good confession, in spite of desertion and discouragement . Then let us pass on to his confidence for the future, the expression of which is bound on to this sentence by  ῥύσεται , indicating the identity of God’s deliverance, and  παντός indicating the  generalization of the danger of which this was a particular case . And how is the danger generally described? as  πᾶν ἔργον πονηρόν : and it is implied that the falling into such danger would preclude him from enduring to Christ’s heavenly kingdom. It was then an ἔργον πονηρόν from which he was on this occasion delivered. What ἔργον πονηρόν ? The  falling into the power of the tempter ; the giving way, in his own weakness and the desertion of all, and betraying the Gospel for which he was sent as a witness. The  lion then is the  devil ; ὁ ἀντίδικος ἡμῶν διάβολος ὡς λέων ὠρυόμενος περιπατεῖ ζητῶν τίνα καταπίῃ , 1Pe 5:8 ).