14. And the Word, c.—To
	raise the reader to the altitude of this climax were the thirteen
	foregoing verses written.
was made flesh—BECAME
	MAN, in man's present frail, mortal condition, denoted by the
	word "flesh" (Isaiah 40:6
1 Peter 1:24). It is directed
	probably against the Docetæ, who held that Christ was not
	really but only apparently man; against whom this gentle
	spirit is vehement in his Epistles (1 John 4:3;
	2 John 1:7; 2 John 1:10;
	2 John 1:11), [LUCKE,
	c.]. Nor could He be too much so, for with the verity of the
	Incarnation all substantial Christianity vanishes. But now, married
	to our nature, henceforth He is as personally conscious of all
	that is strictly human as of all that is properly divine and our
	nature is in His Person redeemed and quickened, ennobled and
	transfigured. 
	and dwelt—tabernacled
	or pitched his tent; a word peculiar to John, who uses it four times,
	all in the sense of a permanent stay (Revelation 7:15;
	Revelation 12:12; Revelation 13:6;
	Revelation 21:3). For ever wedded to our
	"flesh," He has entered this tabernacle to "go
	no more out." The allusion is to that tabernacle where dwelt the
	Shekinah (see on Revelation 21:3- :),
	or manifested "GLORY OF THE
	LORD," and with
	reference to God's permanent dwelling among His people
	(Leviticus 26:11; Psalms 68:18;
	Psalms 132:13; Psalms 132:14;
	Ezekiel 37:27). This is put almost
	beyond doubt by what immediately follows, "And we beheld his
	glory" [LUCKE, MEYER,
	DE WETTE
	which last critic, rising higher than usual, says that thus were
	perfected all former partial manifestations of God in an
	essentially Personal and historically Human manifestation]. 
	full of grace and truth—So
	it should read: "He dwelt among us full of grace and truth";
	or, in Old Testament phrase, "Mercy and truth," denoting
	the whole fruit of God's purposes of love towards sinners of mankind,
	which until now existed only in promise, and the fulfilment
	at length of that promise in Christ; in one great word, "the
	SURE MERCIES of David"
	(Isaiah 55:3; Acts 13:34;
	compare 2 Samuel 23:5). In His
	Person all that Grace and Truth which had been floating so long in
	shadowy forms, and darting into the souls of the poor and needy its
	broken beams, took everlasting possession of human flesh and filled
	it full. By this Incarnation of Grace and Truth, the teaching of
	thousands of years was at once transcended and beggared, and the
	family of God sprang into Manhood. 
	and we beheld his glory—not
	by the eye of sense, which saw in Him only "the
	carpenter." His glory was "spiritually discerned"
	(1 Corinthians 2:7-15; 2 Corinthians 3:18;
	2 Corinthians 4:4; 2 Corinthians 4:6;
	2 Corinthians 5:16) —the glory of
	surpassing grace, love, tenderness, wisdom, purity, spirituality;
	majesty and meekness, richness and poverty, power and weakness,
	meeting together in unique contrast; ever attracting and at times
	ravishing the "babes" that followed and forsook all for
	Him. 
	the glory as of the only
	begotten of the Father—(See on 2 Corinthians 5:16- :); not like, but "such as (belongs to),"
	such as became or was befitting the only begotten of
	the Father [CHRYSOSTOM in
	LUCKE, CALVIN,
	&c.], according to a well-known use of the word "as." 
	2 Corinthians 5:16- :. A SAYING OF THE
	BAPTIST CONFIRMATORY
	OF THIS.