Philippians 2:1.  If there if therefore  any consolation in Christ,  It is better to supply the verb here in the indicative, than in the subjunctive, as in the Authorised Version. The apostle neither doubts himself of consolation being found in Christ, nor implies any doubt on the part of those whom he addresses. They are believers, and partakers of the same grace as himself, and it is  since this is  the case, that he can be so earnest in his exhortation.
	 consolation in Christ  cannot but carry our thoughts back to the aged Simeon in the Temple who was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Then it was expected, it has   come in Christ, and St. Paul is ready, as he tells us in this Epistle, to adopt Simeon’s words if it be God’s will, ‘Now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace.’ The consolation arises from being one with Christ, being found in Him; and the Greek word for consolation is cognate with that used as a name of the Holy Ghost, the  Paraclete,  the Comforter. Thus the consolation in Christ is the result of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.
	 if any comfort of love. The first clause referred to consolation divinely sent, this speaks of the blessing of communion with the brotherhood of Christ on earth. The people of the Lord speak often in love to one another, and thus take heart themselves, and breathe courage into others for the struggle with and against evil. The word which the apostle uses marks this as the special comfort to which he refers, the building up of one another by spiritual converse.
	 if any fellowship of the Spirit.  This is that communion of the Holy Ghost which forms so usual a member in the apostolic benediction. Thus the clause becomes a parallel to the previous ‘consolation in Christ,’ as the next clause is parallel to the ‘comfort of love.’ To interpret the words ‘fellowship in spirit’ of Christian brethren among themselves destroys the symmetrical arrangement of the verse, and makes of this sentence little that is not expressed in the words ‘comfort of love’ which have just preceded.
	 if any tender  mercies and companion.  As they had shown to be true of themselves by their sending to him in his imprisonment. Now as they had manifested their love to him, their father in the faith, he is about to claim a like love to be shown towards one another as brethren. This same word for ‘tender mercies’ is fitly explained in Colossians 3:1 by the addition ‘forbearing one another, and forgiving one   another.’ 