Philippians 2:17.  Yea, and if I am offered. The literal meaning of the verb is, ‘to be poured as a drink-offering’ over a sacrifice. And the thought in St. Paul’s mind continues from the previous verse. I have laboured even to weariness, but I am ready to do more than this. I am ready to die, if my death would help to strengthen you in the faith. This he expresses by a figure familiar enough to the people among whom heathen sacrifices were common. In such sacrifices, that the offering might be rendered the more acceptable, wine was not unfrequently poured over the victim which was offered. The apostle is willing that his life should be looked upon in the same light, as ready to be spent in any way or sacrificed, if so be the cause of Christ may be helped thereby. It is not necessary, because the apostle has used the figure here, to suppose that he saw at the time of his writing any special danger of immediate death. On the contrary, in Philippians 2:24 of this chapter, he expresses a hope that he may soon come to Philippi. But we can see from a later use of this same verb (2 Timothy 4:6), ‘I am already being offered,’ that he counted his whole life as devoted in the daily sacrifice of all for Christ
	 upon the sacrifice and service of your faith. The word rendered ‘service’ here implies ‘a religious service,’ and seems to indicate that the apostle was regarding the Philippians as themselves the ministers in the offering of their works done in faith to God. Thus they brought their faith as the sacrifice, and were themselves the offerers. The preposition would have a slightly different force with the two nouns. The apostle is ready to be poured out  on  the sacrifice  at the time  when it is offered, if only it may be offered.
	 I joy and rejoice with you all.  That St. Paul had reached that stage of the Christian advancement when be could say ‘to die is gain’ is seen from this Epistle. We need not then wonder at his joy over the prospect of departure, especially with such a thought to cheer him as the faith exhibited by his converts. That they should rejoice, and be encouraged by him to do so, is also natural, and makes up largely the theme of this present letter.
	