Philippians 2:30.  because for the work of Christ.  There is some uncertainty whether the last two words be not an addition of later date. Some MSS. read ‘work of the Lord’ instead, and some omit them altogether. ‘The work’ is a New Testament phrase for the work of preaching the Gospel (see Acts 15:38). The sense is the same whether they be omitted or left in.
	 he came nigh unto death.  The original expresses a very close approach. ‘He drew near, even unto death,’ expresses the fulness of the phrase, in which the verb alone expresses the proximity, and the preposition which could have been dispensed with is added to give emphasis to the danger in which the life of Epaphroditus had been. The same purpose is served by the ‘for indeed he was sick’ of Philippians 2:27.
	 hazarding his life.  This is according to a slightly different reading from the Authorised Version, but which has the support of the older MSS. Neither the word of the received text, nor of the version here given, is found elsewhere in the New Testament. The former implies that he neglected to take counsel for the safety of his life, the latter that he willingly put it in jeopardy. From this word a   name ‘Parabolani’ was taken in after times for those courageous persons who in the times of plague and pestilence took the position of watchers of the sick. Such a word gives a   vivid picture of St. Paul’s opinion of the conduct of Epaphroditus. It represents him as encountering the labour and danger which attended on St. Paul’s circumstances with full free will, and an entire disregard of consequences to himself, such as only true devotion could supply.
	 to supply that which  was lacking in your service toward me.  St. Paul does not imply any blame upon the Philippians in the word ‘lack.’ They could not all come to Rome,   nor could he experience the liberal attentions which would have been poured upon him had he been among them. The lack was inevitable. Epaphroditus came as the representative of many, and would fain have multiplied both his powers and services, that he might not only be the bearer of their bounty, but the impersonation of their united love. In his zeal to do this, a hopeless toil, he was worn out in body though not in heart. The knowledge of what his labours had been makes the apostle say: ‘Hold such in honour.’ He uses here also again that word for ‘service’ which marks it as a votive religious act, as well as that it was done by Epaphroditus as a duty imposed by his fellow-citizens.
	