And one of the four beasts - See the notes on Revelation 4:6-7. Which one of the four is not mentioned. From the explanation given of the design of the representation of the “four beasts,” or living creatures, in the notes on Revelation 4:6-7, it would seem that the meaning here is, that the great principles of that divine government would be illustrated in the events which are now to occur. In events that were so closely connected with the honor of God and the triumph of his cause on the earth, there was a propriety in the representation that these living creatures, symbolizing the great principles of divine administration, would be particularly interested.Gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials - The word used here - φιάλη phialē - means properly, “a bowl or goblet, having more breadth than depth” (Robinson, Lexicon). Our word vial, though derived from this, means rather a thin long bottle of glass, used particularly by apothecaries and druggists. The word would be better rendered by “bowl” or “goblet,” and probably the representation here was of such bowls as were used in the temple service. See the notes on Revelation 5:8. They are called in Revelation 16:1, “vials of the wrath of God”; and here they are said to be “full of the wrath of God.” The allusion seems to be to a drinking cup or goblet filled with poison, and given to persons to drink - an allusion drawn from one of the methods of punishment in ancient times. See the notes on Revelation 14:10. These vials or goblets thus became emblems of divine wrath, to be inflicted on the beast and his image.Full of the wrath of God - Filled with what represented his wrath; that is, they seemed to be filled with a poisonous mixture, which being poured upon the earth, the sea, the rivers, the sun, the seat of the beast, the river Euphrates, and into the air, was followed by severe divine judgments on this great anti-Christian power. See Revelation 16:2-4, Revelation 16:8,Revelation 16:10, Revelation 16:12, Revelation 16:17.Who liveth forever and ever - The eternal God. The particular object in referring to this attribute here appears to be, that though there may seem to be delay in the execution of his purposes, yet they will be certainly accomplished, as he is the ever-living and unchangeable God. He is not under a necessity of abandoning his purposes, like people, if they are not soon accomplished.