 49, 50. ] On the connexion of this answer with the preceding, see on Mark. It is even more strikingly brought out here. Our Lord had declared the  absolute equality of all sent in His name and that if there were any difference, it was to be made by a  deeper self-renouncing . Then arises the thought in the mind of the ardent son of Zebedee, of the  exclusive and peculiar dignity of those who were thus sent, the ἀπόστολοι : and he relates what they had done, as a proof of his fully appreciating this exclusive dignity. The link to what has preceded, is in the words  ἐπὶ τῷ ὀν  .   σου  … see the rest in Mark.
	 51 CHAP. Luke 19:28  . ] INCIDENTS DURING THE LORD’S LAST JOURNEY TO JERUSALEM. We now enter upon a long and most important portion of our Gospel, peculiar  in this form , and most of it  entirely peculiar, to Luke. At ch. Luk 18:15 he again joins the narrative of Matt. and Mark within a few verses of where he parted from them.
	Respecting this portion, I will observe, without entangling myself in the harmonistic maze into which most of the interpreters have ventured, (1) that the whole of it is to be understood here as belonging to our Lord’s  last journey from Galilee to Jerusalem: see below on Luke 9:51 . (2) that evidently that journey was  not a direct one (see ch. Luke 10:1 ; Luke 13:22 ; Luke 13:31 ; Luke 17:11 ; Luke 18:31 , and notes), either in  time or in the  road chosen . (3) that in each of the two other Gospels there is a journey placed at this very time, described Matthew 19:1 , μετῆρεν ἀπὸ τῆς Γαλιλαίας καὶ ἦλθεν εἰς τὰ ὅρια τῆς Ἰουδαίας πέραν τοῦ Ἰορδάνου , and Mark 10:1 , ἐκεῖθεν ἀναστὰς ἔρχεται εἰς τὰ ὅρια τῆς Ἰουδ . καὶ πέραν τοῦ Ἰορδάνου , which, in their narrative also, is  the last  journey from Galilee to Jerusalem . (4) that in John 10:22 , we find our Lord at Jerusalem, at the feast of dedication, in the winter (about the end of December), without however any hint as to  how or  whence He came there. (5) that the whole time between that feast and His Passion is spent thus: After the attempt to stone Him, John 10:31 , He retired to Bethany  beyond Jordan; was summoned thence by the message from Martha and Mary to Bethany near Jerusalem, where He raised Lazarus; again retired to Ephraim, somewhere beyond Jericho, on the borders of the desert; six days before the passover came to Bethany, and the anointing took place, &c. this whole time being  three months and a few days. (6) I believe then that we have obtained a  fixed critical point in all the four Gospels for the last journey from Galilee, after which He never returned (in the flesh) thither again. And this last journey was  to the feast of dedication , or at all events brought Him in time for that feast (for it does not look like a journey specially  to a feast ) at Jerusalem. It was between the feast of tabernacles in John 7:2 , to which He went up privately (ib. Joh 7:10 ), and the occasion when we find Him in Solomon’s porch, John 10:22 . (7) The three first Evangelists relate nothing of the being in Jerusalem at the feast of dedication,  or indeed at all, except at the last passover . We therefore find in them nothing of the retirements to Bethany (beyond Jordan) and Ephraim; but the removal of our Lord from Galilee to the confines of Judæa through the parts beyond Jordan is  described as uninterrupted . (8) We are now I believe in a situation to appreciate the view with which our Evangelist inserts this portion. He takes this journey, beginning its narrative at the very same place where the others do, as comprehending as indeed in strict historical fact it did the last solemn farewell to Galilee (ch. Luk 10:13-15 ), the final resolve of our Lord to go up to Jerusalem ( Luk 9:51 ), and, which in its wider sense it did, all the records which he possessed of miracles and discourses between this time and the triumphal entry. (9) As to arranging or harmonizing the separate incidents contained in this portion, as the Evangelist himself has completely by his connecting words in many places  disclaimed it (see ch. Luke 9:57 ; Luke 10:1 ; Luke 10:25 ; Luke 10:38 ; Luke 11:1 ; Luke 11:14 ; Luke 12:1 ; Luke 13:1 ; Luke 13:10 ; Luke 13:22 ; Luke 14:1 ; Luke 14:25 ; Luke 15:1 ; Luke 17:1 ; Luke 17:5 ; Luke 17:11 ; Luke 17:20 ; Luke 18:1 ; Luk 18:9 ), I do not suppose that we, at this distance of time, shall succeed in doing so. The separate difficulties will be treated of as they occur.