 The tongue is a fire  (η γλωσσα πυρ). So necessarily since there is no article with πυρ (apparently same word as German feuer, Latin purus, English pure, fire). This metaphor of fire is applied to the tongue in Proverbs 16:27; Proverbs 26:18-22; Sirach 28:22.The world of iniquity  (ο κοσμος της αδικιας). A difficult phrase, impossible to understand according to Ropes as it stands. If the comma is put after πυρ instead of after αδικιας, then the phrase may be the predicate with καθιστατα (present passive indicative of καθιστημ, "is constituted," or the present middle "presents itself"). Even so, κοσμος remains a difficulty, whether it means the "ornament" (1 Peter 3:3) or "evil world" (James 1:27) or just "world" in the sense of widespread power for evil. The genitive αδικιας is probably descriptive (or qualitative). Clearly James means to say that the tongue can play havoc in the members of the human body.Which defileth the whole body  (η σπιλουσα ολον το σωμα). Present active participle of σπιλοω late Koine, verb, to stain from σπιλος (spot, also late word, in N.T. only in Ephesians 5:27; 2 Peter 2:13), in N.T. only here and Judges 1:23. Cf. James 1:27 ασπιλον (unspotted).Setteth on fire  (φλογιζουσα). Present active participle of φλογιζω, old verb, to set on fire, to ignite, from φλοξ (flame), in N.T. only in this verse. See αναπτε (verse James 3:5).The wheel of nature  (τον τροχον γενεσεως). Old word for wheel (from τρεχω, to run), only here in N.T. "One of the hardest passages in the Bible" (Hort). To what does τροχον refer? For γενεσεως see James 1:23 apparently in the same sense. Vincent suggests "the wheel of birth" (cf. Matthew 1:1; Matthew 1:18). The ancient writers often use this same phrase (or κυκλος, cycle, in place of τροχος), but either in a physiological or a philosophical sense. James may have caught the metaphor from the current use, but certainly he has no such Orphic or Pythagorean doctrine of the transmigration of souls, "the unending round of death and rebirth" (Ropes). The wheel of life may be considered either in motion or standing still, though setting on fire implies motion. There is no reference to the zodiac.And is set on fire by hell  (κα φλογιζομενη υπο γεεννης). Present passive participle of φλογιζω, giving the continual source of the fire in the tongue. For the metaphor of fire with γεεννα see Matthew 5:22. 