 3 5. ] Respecting the BRETHREN OF THE LORD, see note on Matthew 13:55 . They seem to have had at this time  a kind of belief in the Messianic character of Jesus, but of the very lowest sort, not excluding the harsh and scoffing spirit visible in these words. They recognized his miracles, but despised his apparent want of prudence and consistency of purpose, in not shewing himself to the world. In the  ἵνα καὶ οἱ μαθ  .   σου κ . τ . λ . there is perhaps a reference to the desertion of many of his disciples just before. Nay, more than this: the indication furnished by this verse of the practice of our Lord with regard to His miracles up to this point is very curious. He appears as yet to have made His circuits in Galilee, and to have wrought miracles there, in the presence of but a small circle of disciples properly so called: and there would seem to have been a larger number of disciples, in the wider sense, in Judæa, or to be gathered in Judæa by the feast, who yet wanted assuring, by open display, of the reality of His wonderful works.
	In John 7:5 (as well as by οἱ μαθηταί σου , Joh 7:3 ), we have these brethren  absolutely excluded from the number of the Twelve (see ch. Joh 6:69 ); and it is impossible to modify the meaning of ἐπίστευον so as to suppose that they may have been of the Twelve, but not believers in the highest sense. This verse also excludes  all of His brethren: it is inconceivable that John should have so written, if  any among them believed at that time. The attempt to make the words mean, that  some of his brethren did not believe on him , is in my view quite futile. In that case we should certainly have had some such expression as ἦσαν γὰρ καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἀδελφῶν αὐτοῦ , οἳ οὐκ ἐπίστευον εἰς αὐτόν . No such attempt would ever have been made by a Greek scholar, except for the fiction which has been so long, and, strange to say, is still upheld with regard to our Lord’s brethren.
	The emphatic expression,  οὐδὲ γὰρ οἱ ἀδ  ., is a strong corroboration of the view that they were really and literally  brethren: see also Psalms 69:8 .