 33, 34. ] The omission or insertion of αὐτοῖς makes very little difference. The words were spoken, not to the officers only, but to all the people.
	 ἔτι χρ  .   μικ  … ] This appears to be said in reference to John 7:30 , to shew them the uselessness of their attempting to lay hands on Him till His hour was come, which it soon would be.
	 πρὸς τ  .   πέμψ  .   με ] It has been asked, ‘If Jesus thus specified where He was going, how could the Jews ask the question in Joh 7:35 ?’ but De Wette answers well, that the Jews knew not τὸν πέμψαντα αὐτόν , and therefore the saying was a dark one to them.
	 ζητ. με, κ. οὐχ εὑρ. ] These words must not be pressed too much, as has been done by many interpreters (Chrysost., Theophyl., Euthym [114] , Meyer, Tholuck, but not in his 6th edn.), who would make them mean, ‘  Ye shall seek My help and not find it ’ (viz. in your need, at the destruction of Jerusalem); for this would not be true even of the Jews, any one of whom might have at any time turned and looked on Him whom he had pierced, by faith, and have been saved; nor again must it be taken as meaning, ‘  Ye shall seek to lay hands on Me, and shall not be able ’ (Orig [115] , Grot.), which is vapid and unmeaning. Neither of these interpretations, nor their cognates, will agree with the parallel place, ch. John 13:33 , where the same words are used to the  disciples . The meaning is simply (as in reff.), ‘My bodily presence will be withdrawn from you; I shall be personally in a place inaccessible to you:’ see ch. John 13:36 .
	 [114] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [115] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 εἰμί  , am; not εἶμι , ‘  go ,’ which is never used in the N.T. Nor need we supply τότε ; the present tense is used in the solemn sense of ch. John 1:18 , and ch. John 3:13 , to signify  essential truth . Compare οὐ δύνασθε addressed to the Jews, with οὐ δύνασαί μοι νῦν ἀκολ ., ἀκολουθήσεις δὲ ὕστερον to Peter, ch. John 13:36 , and it will be evident that the Lord had their  spiritual state in view: ‘Ye cannot, as ye are now, enter there.’
	On the whole, see Luke 17:22 .