 39. ] The difficulties raised concerning this interpretation of the saying of our Lord have arisen from a misapprehension. John does not say that the words were a prophecy of  what happened on the day of Pentecost; but of  the Spirit , which the believers were about to receive. Their  first reception of Him must not be illogically put in the place of  all His indwelling and working , which are here intended. And the symbolism of the N.T. is fully satisfied by the interpretation. Granted that the water is the  water of life what is that life but the life of the Spirit? τὸ φρόνημα τοῦ πνεύμ .,  ζωή  , Romans 8:6 ; and again,  τὸ πνεῦμα  ,   ζωή  , ib. Romans 7:10 .
	It is lamentable to see such able and generally right-minded Commentators as Lücke carping at the interpretation of an Apostle, and the one Apostle who perhaps of all men living had the deepest insight into the wonderful analogies of spiritual things.
	 οὔπω ἦν ] The additions δεδομένον , δοθέν , ἐπ ʼ αὐτοῖς , are all  glosses , to avoid a misunderstanding which no intelligent reader could fall into. Chr [116] in loc. quotes the verse thus: ὁ εὐαγγελιστὴς ἔλεγεν , Οὔπω γὰρ ἦν πνεῦμα ἅγιον , τουτέστι δοθέν , ἐπεὶ Ἰησοῦς οὔπω ἐδοξάσθη · δόξαν καλῶν τὸν σταυρόν . It is obvious that ἦν cannot refer to the  essential existence of the Holy Spirit, as this would be not only in flat contradiction to ch. John 1:32-33 ; John 3:5 ; John 3:8 ; John 3:34 , but to the whole O.T., in which the agency of the Spirit in the  outward world is recognized even more vividly than in the N.T. The ἦν implies not exactly δεδομένον , but rather ἐνεργοῦν , or some similar word:  was not, had not come in; ‘  the dispensation of the Spirit was not yet .’
	 [116] Chrysostom, Bp. of Constantinople, 397 407: Chr-montf, a MS. cited from Montfaucon; Chr-wlf, Wolfenbüttel MS. of Chr. written in cent y . vi.; Chr-Fd, Field’s edn. of the Hom. on Matthew 6:0
 ἐδοξάσθη  ,  through death . The glorified Body of the Lord is the temple from under whose threshold the Holy Spirit flows forth to us: see ch. John 1:16 : Romans 8:11 ; Colossians 2:9 .