 22. ]  διὰ τοῦτο is variously placed; either at the end of John 7:21 , so as to come after θαυμάζετε , (Cod. [98] , lat.  q , Theophyl., Beza, and many of the moderns, Lücke, De Wette, Stier, Lachmann, &c.,) or at the beginning of this verse (Codd. [99] , [100] , [101] , [102] , [103] , [104] , [105] , Δ , Λ , [ [106] , [107] , Γ , Π ,] vul [108] ., the syriac versions, copt [109] ., got [110] ., Euthym [111] , Chrys., Cyril, Grotius, &c.). I prefer the latter arrangement: because (1) I believe τοῦτο would not be used in the sense required by the other, but αὐτό (nor can I see that the ἓν ἔργον makes the τοῦτο any more applicable (see Stier, edn. 2, iv. 315); nay, it seems to me to take the attention off from the particular work done, and fix it on the mere ἓν ἔργ . ποιῆσαι , abstractedly ‘Ye wonder that I have acted at all’): and (2) because I find διὰ τοῦτο joined with ὅτι to be a usual mode of speaking with our Evangelist, see ch. John 5:16 ; John 5:18 ; John 8:47 ( θαυμάζειν διά τι is used Mark 6:6 ; Revelation 17:7 ; see also Joh 3:29 ). (3) I see an appropriateness of meaning in Joh 7:22 with the διὰ τοῦτο , which it has not without it.  Moses  on this account  gave you circumcision, not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers; (the repetition of ἐκ τ . Μωυ . ἐστ . does not necessarily imply a parenthesis: John constantly uses these formal repetitions: this in answer to Stier, iv. 315, edn. 2) i.e. it is no part of the law  of Moses , properly so called, but was adopted by Moses, and thereby becomes part of his law. The meaning of οὐχ ὅτι , ‘  not that ,’ implying ‘I mean not, that,’ does not seem to suit the context so well, because it would leave the preceding διὰ τοῦτο without any thing to refer to.  Now you circumcise on the Sabbath, to avoid breaking the law of Moses , &c. If our Lord had said these last words (in Joh 7:23 )  merely , the argument would not have been strict: they might have answered, that circumcision was not only a command of the law, but anterior to it: whereas Joh 7:22 takes this answer from them; reminding them that though they regarded its sanction as derived from Moses, it was in fact older, and tacitly approving their doing it on the Sabbath. Then the argument is,  If this may be done on the Sabbath: if an ordinance  strictly Mosaic (which  the Sabbath in its Jewish mode of observance was) may be set aside by another, Mosaic also, but more ancient, and borrowed from a more general and direct command of God (“circumcisio est antiquior rigido otio sabbati per Mosen imperato” Grotius),  how much more may it by  a deed of mercy , a benevolent exercise of divine power, the approval of which is anterior to and deeper than all ceremonial enactment?
	 [98] The Codex Monacensis, formerly Ingoldstadiensis. [It is a folio in two columns, and was presented by Gerard Vossius (1577 1641) to Ingoldstadt, transferred with the University to Landshut in 1803, to Munich in 1827.] (University Library, Munich, I. 26.) Contains the four Gospels with numerous lacunæ. [Burgon states that it does not contain Matthew 6:6-10 , but Matthew 6:10-11; Matthew 6:10-11 .Mark 14:61-64; Mark 14:61-64 ; Mar 14:72 to Mar 15:4 has perished; Mark 15:32 (latter half) Mark 16:8 (former half) has nearly perished.] It is accompanied by an interspersed commentary [that on Matt. and John abbreviated from Chrys.: on Luke from Titus (not Bostr., but rather later). There is no comm. on Mark]. Ascribed to the end of the  ninth , or beginning of the  tenth century . Collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles.
	 [99] The CODEX CANTABRIGIENSIS, or BEZÆ, so called because it was presented by Beza in 1581 to the University Library at Cambridge; where it is now exposed to view in a glass case. He procured it in 1562, from the monastery of St. Irenæus at Lyons. It is on parchment, and contains the Gospels and Acts, with a Latin version. Its lacunæ, which are many, will be perceived by the inner marginal letters in this edition. It once contained the Catholic Epistles: 3Jn 1:11-14 in Latin is all that now remains. It was edited with very accurate imitative types, at the expense of the University of Cambridge, by Dr. Kipling, in 1793. A new edition carefully revised and more generally accessible was published by Mr. Scrivener in 1864, and has been collated for this Edition. In the introduction some ten or twelve correctors are distinguished, whose readings are found in the notes at the end of the volume. The text of the Codex Bezæ is a very peculiar one, deviating more from the received readings and from the principal manuscript authorities than any other. It appears to have been written in France, and by a Latin transcriber ignorant of Greek, from many curious mistakes which occur in the text, and version attached. It is closely and singularly allied to the ancient Latin versions, so much so that some critics have supposed it to have been altered from the Latin: and certainly many of the phænomena of the MS. seem to bear out the idea. Where D differs in unimportant points from the other Greek MSS., the difference appears to be traceable to the influence of Latin forms and constructions. It has been observed, that in such cases it frequently agrees with the Latin codex  e (see the list further on). Its peculiarities are so great, that in many passages, while the sense remains for the most part unaltered, hardly three words together are the same as in the commonly received text. And that these variations often arise from capricious alteration, is evident from the way in which the Gospels, in parallel passages, have been more than commonly interpolated from one another in this MS. The concurrence with the ancient Latin versions seems to point to a very early state of the text; and it is impossible to set aside the value of D as an index to its history; but in critical weight it ranks the lowest of the leading MSS. Its age has been very variously given: the general opinion now is that it was written in the  latter end of the fifth or the sixth century .
	 [100] The Codex Basileensis (Public Library at Basle, formerly B. vi. 21; now K. iv. 35). Contains the four Gospels with some considerable lacunæ. Collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles. Said to be of the middle of the  eighth century . [Burgon gives the press-mark as A. N. iii. 12; and assigns the MS. to the  seventh century.]
	 [101] The Codex Harleianus, 5684, in the British Museum, brought by Andrew Seidel from the East. Contains the Gospels with many lacunæ. Collated by J. C. Wolf, to whom it once belonged, and recently by Tischendorf and Tregelles (known as Seidelii I., or Wolfii A). Ascribed to the  ninth or  tenth century .
	 [102] The Codex Cyprius, brought from the island of Cyprus to Paris, and now in the Imperial Library there (MS. Gr. 63). Contains the Gospels (entire), memoirs of the saints of the Greek Church, and the canons of Eusebius. Collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles. Its text is peculiar and  sui generis; and is consequently of much value. Assigned to the  ninth century .
	 [103] The Codex Regius Parisiensis (Bibliothèque Impériale Manuscrit grec, No. 62 [olim 2861 and 1558]), contains the Gospels with some lacunæ. Edited by Tischendorf in his Monumenta Sacra, 1846, pp. 57 399. Its text, both in various readings and in grammatical forms, is of the kind which has been called Alexandrine, and is very nearly related to that of B. From the careless positions of the accents, Scholz and Griesbach think it to have been copied from some more ancient MS. which had no accents. Ascribed by Tischendorf to the  eighth century; by Tregelles and others, to the  ninth 4 .
	 [104] CODEX BORGIANUS 1, in the Library of the Propaganda at Rome, of the  fifth century (probably). Contains fragments of Luke and John with a Sahidic version. The portions John 6:28-67 ; Joh 7:6 to Joh 8:31 were published by A. A. Georgi, at Rome, in 1789: and examined by Tischendorf. This Græco-Egyptian MS. also contains a portion of St. Luke, ch. Luk 22:20 to Luke 23:20 , which was first brought to my notice by Dr. Tregelles, as being mentioned by Zoega in his “Catalogus Codicum Copticorum MSS. qui in Museo Borgiano Velitris adservantur.” My brother, the Rev. Bradley H. Alford, happening to be at Rome, was fortunate enough to obtain permission to collate this ancient fragment, and sent me the collation, from which the readings were, in Edn. 4 of this Volume, first published. Two other portions of the same MS. were once in the possession of C. G. Woide and were published by Ford in the Appendix to the Codex Alexandrinus, Oxford, 1799. They comprise Luk 12:15 to Luke 13:32 ; John 8:33-42 .
	 [105] The Codex Nanianus 1, in St. Mark’s Library at Venice ([Gr. Class.] I. viii.), contains the Gospels entire, with the canons of Eusebius. It has been collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles. Assigned to the  tenth century .
	 [106] The Codex Wolfii B, now in the Public Library at Hamburg. Its history is the same as that of the last MS. Its contents, the Gospels, with many lacunæ: its assigned date, about the end of the  ninth century . It was collated by Wolf, Tregelles, and Tischendorf.
	 [107] The Codex Vaticanus 354, contains the Gospels entire, with the canons of Eusebius. Written by Michael, a monk, in the year 949. Collated by Birch, whose collation Tregelles and Tischendorf have used; hence when quoted as agreeing with the received text, its testimony is only ‘e silentio Birchii,’ except in those cases in which express testimony has been obtained from Tischendorf, who has collated this MS. and the preceding for his eighth edition.
	 [108] The Vulgate version (A.D. 383), since its completion by Jerome variously emended and edited: quoted from the authorized edition of the Church of Rome put forth by Clement VIII. in 1592, which differs in many respects from the equally authoritative edition of Sixtus V. in 1590. See Horne, pp. 243 257.
	 [109] Denotes that the Egyptian versions agree in supporting a given reading. The ordinary citations, repeated in this volume cannot be thoroughly relied upon.
	 [110] The Gothic version. Made from the Greek by Ulphilas about the middle of the  fourth century .
	 [111] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116