 28, 29. ]  ἔκραξεν  , in the same open undisguised manner referred to in παῤῥησέᾳ λαλεῖ above; but διδάσκων , in the course of His teaching.
	 κἀμὲ οἴδατε  .… ] It has been questioned whether these words are to be taken ironically, interrogatively, or affirmatively. I incline to the last view, for this reason: obviously no very high degree of knowledge  whence He was is implied, for they knew not Him that sent Him (see also ch. John 8:14 ; Joh 8:19 ), and therefore could not know  whence He was , in this sense. The answer is made  in their own sense: they knew that He was from Nazareth in Galilee, see John 7:41 , and probably that He was called the son of Joseph. In this sense they knew  whence He was; but further than this they knew not.
	 καὶ ἀπ  ʼ   ἐμ  … and moreover and besides this not =  but .
	The sense of  ἀληθινός must be gathered from the context.  I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is ἀληθινός  ye know Him not; I know Him, for I came from Him, and He sent Me . The matter here impressed on them is the  genuineness , the  reality of the fact: that Jesus  was sent , and  there was one who sent Him , though they knew Him not, and consequently knew not πόθεν ἐστίν . The nearest English word would be real: but this would not convey the meaning perspicuously to the ordinary mind; perhaps the E. V.  true is better, provided it be explained to mean  objectively , not  subjectively , true:  really existent , not ‘  truthful ,’ which it may be questioned whether the word ἀληθινός will bear, although it is so maintained by Euthym [112] , Cyril, Chrys., Theophylact, Lampe, Baumgarten-Crusius, Tholuck, and many others. See on this, ch. Joh 8:16 and note. With the  δέ of the re [113] . omitted the sense becomes more emphatic. It was probably inserted on account of the apparent want of connexion, as has been the case very frequently throughout the Gospel. We have here an instance of a usage of ἐκεῖνος which is very common in St. John, as emphasizing the main subject, not (as more commonly) diverting the attention to one more removed. In ignorance of this usage, Hilgenfeld, “Die Evangelia nach ihrer Entstehung, u. s. w.,” has argued from ch. John 19:35 , that the writer of this Gospel cannot himself have been an eye-witness of the crucifixion, because he there distinguishes that witness by ἐκεῖνος from himself. In consequence of this assertion, an article appeared in the Stud. u. Kritik. for 1859, pt. 3, by G. E. Steiss, in which the use of ἐκεῖνος by St. John is gone into, and Hilgenfeld’s mistake (which Köstlin had committed before him) was exposed. Referring to that article for the full treatment of the subject, I merely cite from among many other instances of the usage, ch. John 1:18 ; John 1:33 ; John 5:11 ; John 6:57 ; John 10:1 ; John 12:48 ; John 14:12 ; John 14:21 ; John 14:26 ; John 17:24 .
	 [112] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [113] The  Textus Receptus or received text of the Greek Testament. Used in this Edition when elz and Steph agree