26. For what is a man profited, if
	he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul—or forfeit
	his own soul? 
	or what shall a man give in
	exchange for his soul?—Instead of these weighty words, which we
	find in Mark 8:36 also, it is
	thus expressed in Luke 9:25: "If
	he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away," or
	better, "If he gain the whole world, and destroy or forfeit
	himself." How awful is the stake as here set forth! If a man
	makes the present world—in its various forms of riches, honors,
	pleasures, and such like—the object of supreme pursuit, be it that
	he gains the world; yet along with it he forfeits his own soul. Not
	that any ever did, or ever will gain the whole world—a very small
	portion of it, indeed, falls to the lot of the most successful of the
	world's votaries—but to make the extravagant concession, that by
	giving himself entirely up to it, a man gains the whole world; yet,
	setting over against this gain the forfeiture of his soul—necessarily
	following the surrender of his whole heart to the world—what is he
	profited? But, if not the whole world, yet possibly something else
	may be conceived as an equivalent for the soul. Well, what is it?—"Or
	what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" Thus, in
	language the weightiest, because the simplest, does our Lord shut up
	His hearers, and all who shall read these words to the end of the
	world, to the priceless value to every man of his own soul. In Mark
	and Luke (Mark 8:38; Luke 9:26)
	the following words are added: "Whosoever therefore shall be
	ashamed of Me and of My words [shall be ashamed of belonging to Me,
	and ashamed of My Gospel] in this adulterous and sinful generation"
	(see on Matthew 16:1), "of him
	shall the Son of man be ashamed when He cometh in the glory of His
	Father, with the holy angels." He will render back to that man
	his own treatment, disowning him before the most august of all
	assemblies, and putting him to "shame and everlasting
	contempt" (Daniel 12:2).
	"O shame," exclaims BENGEL,
	"to be put to shame before God, Christ, and angels!" The
	sense of shame is founded on our love of reputation,
	which causes instinctive aversion to what is fitted to lower it, and
	was given us as a preservative from all that is properly shameful.
	To be lost to shame is to be nearly past hope. (Zephaniah 3:5;
	Jeremiah 6:15; Jeremiah 3:3).
	But when Christ and "His words" are unpopular, the same
	instinctive desire to stand well with others begets that
	temptation to be ashamed of Him which only the expulsive power of a
	higher affection can effectually counteract.