 56. ] The Lord does not deny them their  outward title of children of Abraham: it is of spiritual things that He has been speaking, in refusing them the  reality of it.
	 ἠγαλλ  .   ἵνα ἴδῃ  , rejoiced, that He should see; not (Grotius, Calov., Kuin., &c.) “wished that he might see.” The object of his joy is treated as its purpose. The intent is to shew that Abraham did in his time keep Christ’s word, viz. by a  prospective realizing faith; and  therefore that he, in the sense of John 8:51 ,  had not seen death . This is expressed by  κ  .   εἶδεν κ  .   ἐχάρη  : see below. But what is  τ  .   ἡμ  .   τ  .   ἐμήν ? Certainly, the day of Christ’s appearance in the flesh ( ὁ τῆς ἐπιδημίας αὐτοῦ καιρός , Cyril Alex [137] ).  When that was over , and the attention was directed to another and future appearance, the word came to be used of His  second coming , 1 Corinthians 1:8 , &c. &c. But this, as well as  the day of His Cross (Euthym, alli [138] .), is out of the question  here; and the word Rabbinically was used for the time of the Messiah’s appearance. So we have it, Luke 17:22 ; Luke 17:26 ; but here as there, the expression must not be limited  exclusively to the former appearance. From the sense it is evident that Abraham saw by faith and will see in fact, not the first coming only, but that which it introduces and implies, the second also. Technically however, in the form of the sentence here, the First is mainly in view. And to  see that day, is to be present at, witness, it; to have experience of it.
	 [137] Cyril Alex. Cyril, Bp. of Alexandria, 412 444
	 [138] alli = some cursive mss.
	 κ  .   εἶδεν κ  .   ἐχάρη  , viz. in his Paradisiacal state of bliss. Maldonatus has a striking note here (ii. 710): “Cum dicit,  vidit , haud dubium quin eo modo vidisse dicat, quo videre dixerat tantopere concupivisse. Non autem concupiverat sola videre fide … quia fide  jam Christi diem  videbat .… Vidit ergo diem Christi  re ipsa , quemadmodum et ille et patres omnes videre concupiverant. Non quod vivus viderit, sed quod mortuus Christum venisse noverit, tempusque illud exactum esse quod usque ad ejus adventum a Deo constitutum fuisse sciebat. Quod enim dicit, Exsultavit ut videret diem meum, perinde valet ac si diceret, Cupivit ut veniret dies meus: venit, et gavisus est. Quis enim dubitet Abraham et cæteros patres qui cum eo erant (sive ex revelatione, quam in hac vita habuissent, sive ex revelatione, quam tunc, quum Christus venit, habuerint de ejus adventu)  non ignorasse Christum venisse , etiam antequam ad eos post mortem veniret?” Only that I would rather believe, as Stier does (iv. 444 f. edn. 2), that the ‘seeing of Christ’s day’ was not  by revelation , but  actual the seeing of a witness. ‘Abraham then has not seen death, but lives through my word; having believed and rejoiced in the promise of Me, whom he has now seen manifest in the flesh.’
	Meyer quotes the Socinian interpretation as a specimen of “monstrous perversion:” “  exultaturus fuisset … et si vidisset, omnino fuisset gavisurus .”