 44. ] The first article τοῦ is important, and to be rendered (against Meyer) as in E. V.,  your father the devil . This verse is one of the most decisive testimonies for the  objective personality of the devil. It is quite impossible to suppose an accommodation to Jewish views, or a metaphorical form of speech, in so solemn and direct an assertion as this.
	 θέλετε ποιεῖν is important, and should have been in E. V. more marked:  Your will is to do : or, as A.V.R. “  ye love to do ” [or,  are inclined to do ]. It indicates, as in ch. John 5:40 , the  freedom of the human will , as the  foundation of the condemnation of the sinner .
	 ἀνθρωποκτόνος ] The most obvious reference seems to be, to the murder of Abel by Cain: see the Apostle’s own comment on these words, 1Jn 3:12 ; 1 John 3:15 . But this itself was only a result of the introduction of death by sin, which was the work of the devil: Adam and Eve were the  first whom he murdered. But then again both these were only  manifestations of the fact here stated by divine omniscience respecting him: that he was ἀνθρωποκτόνος .
	 ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς  , the author and bringer in of that hate which is ἀνθρωποκτονία , 1 John 3:15 .
	The mention of  murder is introduced because the Jews went about to kill Jesus; and the  typical parallel of Cain and Abel is certainly hinted at in the words: see Lücke’s note, ii. 338 ff., and Stier, iv. 414 (edn. 2) ff.
	 οὐχ ἕστηκεν  , not ‘  abode not,’ E. V.; a sense which ἕστηκα will not bear, being always  present in meaning, and = ‘I have placed myself,’ i.e. I  stand : see Matthew 12:47 ; Matthew 20:6 ; Mark 9:1 ; Mark 11:5 ; John 3:29 ; Acts 1:11 ; Acts 7:33 ; Romans 5:2 ; Rom 11:20 alli [131] . fr.: whereas the pluperfect, εἱστήκειν , ‘I had placed myself,’ i.e. I  stood , is  imperfect in sense: see Matthew 12:46 . And that this place forms no exception, is shewn by ὅτι οὐκ  ἔστιν (not ἦν ) immediately following. But as the account of this  present sense shews, it is not a  mere present, but a present dependent on and commencing with an implied past fact. And that fact here is, the  fall of the devil, which was not an insulated act, but in which state of apostasy from the truth he  ἕστηκεν  , it is his  status . So Euthym [132] : ἐμμένει , ἀναπαύεται .
	 [131] alli = some cursive mss.
	 [132] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ἡ ἀλήθεια  , as De Wette remarks, is  objective: the  truth of God: in this  he standeth not ,  because  there is no truth (‘  truthfulness,’ subjective )  in him . His  lie has become his very nature, and therefore he is thoroughly alien from the truth of God. To take  ὅτι as ‘not the cause, but the proof’ (  for , i.e. ‘for we see it by this, that’ …) is not only to do violence to construction, but to overthrow the whole sense of the passage.
	 τὸ ψεῦδος  ,  a lie ; generic: we in English have retained the article in the expression ‘to speak the truth,’ but not in the corresponding one. He ἐλάλει τὸ ψεῦδος to Eve.
	 ἐκ τ  .   ἰδ  .,  of his own , as E. V., not, ‘  according to his character ’ (De Wette), but ‘out of his own resources,’ ‘treasures:’ see Matthew 12:35 .
	 ὁ πατ  .   αὐτοῦ ] i.e. either τοῦ ψεύδους (absolutely, or as understood in ψεύστης , Orig [133] , Euthym [134] , Theophyl., &c. Nitzsch (Theol. Zeitschrift, 1822), De Wette, Lücke, Wordsw., and Winer, § 22. 3. b), or τοῦ ψεύστου (= τῶν ψευστῶν ),  of the liar generally . The former is  not the fact , for the devil is not the father  τοῦ ψεύδους  , but  τῶν ψευστῶν  , by being himself one whose very nature has become τὸ ψεῦδος . Certainly by this he has become the author, promoter, of falsehood among men; but this kind of paternity is not here in question: the object being to shew that he was the father of these lying Jews. I therefore hold the latter interpretation, with Bengel, Meyer, and Stier.
	 [133] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [134] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	The construction of this passage with the art. before πατήρ has presented insuperable difficulty to Bp. Middleton and others: see Midd. in loc. The rendering which he proposes is this: “When (any of you) speaks that which is false, he speaks after the manner of his kindred ( ἐκ τῶν ἰδίων !), for he is a liar, and so also is his father,” i.e. the devil. To which the late Prof. Scholefield proposes an emendation, to take away the comma after ἐστίν , and translate, “For his father also is a liar,” not knowing, apparently, that this was the ancient heretical interpretation according to which the πατὴρ αὐτοῦ was the Demiurge: see Meyer, edn. 3, and Hilgenfeld, referred to by him as supporting this rendering. It is really almost incredible that learned men, students of our Lord’s discourses, should seriously uphold an interpretation so utterly absurd and preposterous. It is only an instance how the judgment may be warped by the adoption of canons respecting the article grounded on insufficient observation. The instances which Middleton adduces to prove that according to the ordinary rendering, the article must be omitted before πατήρ , none of them touch the question. The article here is  emphatic , and could not be omitted, any more than in the sentence ἐγώ εἰμι ὁ ἄρτος τῆς ζωῆς . The simple account to be given of this construction, is that it = ὅτι ψεύστης ἐστίν , καὶ ὁ πατὴρ  αὐτῶν : but by ψεύστης being singular, the pronoun is attracted into the singular also.