 4. ] The λέγουσιν αὐτῷ ἐκπειράζοντες αὐτόν savours much more of the synoptic Gospels than of John: see Matthew 16:1 ; Matthew 19:3 ; Matthew 22:18 ; Matthew 22:35 ; Mark 8:11 ; Mark 10:2 ; Mark 12:15 , &c. Obviously our ch. Joh 6:6 is no example to the contrary. (So Luthardt.) The difficulty is even greater than the last, to say,  in what sense this was a temptation, to lead to His accusation . The principal solutions of it have been, (1) that the command of the law had fallen into disuse from the frequency of the crime, and to re-assert it would be contrary to the known mildness of Jesus (Michaelis (first part), Aug [119] , Euthym [120] ). But what reason had any of His sayings, who came to fulfil the Law, not to destroy it, given them to expect such mildness in this case? And suppose He had re-asserted the law, how could they have  accused Him? (2) That some political snare was hereby laid for Him, whereby the Roman power might have been brought to bear against Him (Grotius and others). But this does not in any way appear; for ( α ) the Romans certainly allowed to the Jews (by connivance) the power of putting to death according to their law, as they did in the case of Stephen: ( β ) our Lord’s answer need not have been so worded as to trench upon this matter: and ( γ ) the accusers would have been more deeply involved than Himself, if such had been the case, being by the law the prominent persons in the execution.
	 [119]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [120] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	So that I leave the difficulty unsolved. Lücke (whose discussion on it see, ii. 261 ff.) observes: “Since Jesus seems to avoid every kind of decision on the question put to Him, it follows that He found in it no reference to the great subjects of His teaching, but treated it as a purely civil or political matter, with which in His ministry He had no concern.  Some kind of civil or political collision the question certainly was calculated to provoke: but from the brevity of the narration, and our want of more accurate knowledge of criminal proceedings at the time, it is impossible to lay down definitely, wherein the collision would have consisted.” p. 267.