 12. ] The attempts of Bengel, Schulthess, and Stier, to establish a connexion with the passage concerning the woman taken in adultery are forced and harsh. It was, say they, the early morning ( Joh 8:2 ) and the sun was just rising, to which these words τὸ φῶς τοῦ κόσ . allude, and the walking in darkness is an allusion to the woman, whose deed of darkness had been detected in the night. But not to dwell on other objections to this view, e.g. that such an allusion to the woman would be wholly out of character after our Lord’s previous treatment of her, how come these Pharisees, who on the hypothesis of the above Commentators are  the same as those who accused the woman , to be  again so soon present? Was this at all likely? We cannot escape from this difficulty with Stier, iv. 363, edn. 2, by supposing a multitude of the people to have been witnesses on both occasions: the οἱ Φαρισαῖοι of the one must surely extend through the other, if  this connexion is to be maintained.
	On the other hand, this discourse comes in very well after ch. John 7:52 . The last saying of Jesus (ch. Joh 7:37-38 ) had referred to a festal usage then just over: He now adds another of the same kind. It was the custom during the first night, if not during every night, of the feast of tabernacles (see authorities in Wetstein), to light up two large golden chandeliers in the court of the women, the light of which illuminated all Jerusalem. All that night they held a festal dance by the light.
	Now granted that this was on the first night only, what is there improbable in the supposition that our Lord standing in the very place where the candlesticks had been or perhaps actually were should have alluded to that practice, as He did to the outpouring of water in ch. Joh 7:37-38 ? Surely to say in both cases, as Lücke and De Wette do, that the allusion could not have been made unless the usage  took place on that day , is mere trifling.  While the feast lasted , and the remembrance of the ceremonies was fresh, the allusion would be perfectly natural.
	 τὸ φῶς τ  .   κόσ  . ] See on ch. John 1:9 , and John 11:9-10 . See also Isaiah 42:6 ; Malachi 4:2 ; and on τὸ φῶς τῆς ζωῆς , ch. John 1:4 , and John 6:48 .