 25. ] Their question follows on  ἐγὼ ἐκ τῶν ἄνω εἰμί  , John 8:23 , and the dubious elliptical expression  ἐγώ εἰμι of the last verse. It is intended to bring out a plain answer on which their enmity might fasten.
	Our Lord’s reply has been found difficult, principally from the ambiguity of ὅτι and ὅ τι . No sense can however be given by ὅτι which will at all harmonize with the context, notwithstanding Luthardt’s defence of it. Lücke’s interpretation (edn. 3) after Euthym [125] , “  Why do I speak with you at all? ” is not only ungrammatical, but most alien from the whole character of our Lord’s discourses. I assume then that ὅ τι is to be read. Then comes another question: what does  λαλῶ mean? It has been usually rendered ‘  say ,’ or ‘  tell;’ ‘even the same that I said unto you from the beginning ,’ E. V. But as De Wette has observed, λαλῶ will not bear this. It is never ‘  to say ’ simply, but ‘  to discourse ,’ or ‘  to hold converse ,’ ‘  to speak .’ Again, what is  τὴν ἀρχήν ? not to be taken substantively (as Aug [126] , Ambr [127] , Vulg.  principium ), so as to mean ‘  The beginning , as I, &c.’ (so recently, Bp. Wordsw.): but adverbially, with  all Greek interpreters (see reff.). And adverbially it may mean (1) ‘  in the beginning ,’ ‘  from the beginning ,’ but not ‘  firstly: ’ (2) ‘  generally ,’ ‘  at all ,’ ‘  omnino ,’ usually with a negative clause, but sometimes with an affirmative. Thus Soph. Antig. 92, ἀρχὴν δὲ θηρᾶν οὐ πρέπει τἀμήχανα : Herod. i. 9, ἀρχὴν γὰρ ἐγὼ μηχανήσομαι οὕτω : iv. 25, τοῦτο οὐκ ἐνδέκομαι τὴν ἀρχήν : Plato, Lysis, p. 265, πῶς οὖν οἱ ἀγαθοὶ τοῖς ἀγαθοῖς ἡμῖν φίλοι ἔσονται τὴν ἀρχήν ; See many more examples in Hermann on Viger, p. 722. The common rendering takes the first of these meanings; but the above remarks on λαλῶ will set that rendering aside; and together with the assumption of λαλῶ = ἔλεξα , the meaning, ‘  in the beginning ,’ or ‘  at first ,’ or ‘  from the beginning ,’ falls to the ground. We have then the second meaning of τὴν ἀρχήν ,  generally, or ‘traced up to its principle,’ for such is the account to be given of this meaning of the word.
	 [125] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [126]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [127]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397
	The rendering of καί , ‘  even ,’ and placing it before τὴν ἀρχ ., as done in E. V., is ungrammatical. It must be taken with λαλῶ , being inseparable from it by its position between the relative ὅ τι and the verb: as in the clause, ὃς καὶ παρέδωκεν αὐτόν .
	This being premised, the sentence must be rendered (literally) thus:  Essentially, that which I also discourse unto you : or  In very deed, that same which I speak unto you . He is the  λόγος His  discourses are the  revelation of Himself . And there is especial propriety in this: When Moses asked the name of God, “  I am that which I AM,” was the mysterious answer; the hidden essence of the yet unrevealed One could only be expressed by self-comprehension; but when God manifest in the flesh is asked the same question, it is ‘I am that which I SPEAK:’ what He  reveals Himself to be, that He  is (see on next verse). The above sense is maintained by De Wette, and strikingly expanded and illustrated by Stier, iv. 378 ff., edn. 2. The meaning maintained by Meyer, “  Do ye ask, what I have been long telling you? ” is ingenious, but seems to be by implication refuted by what has been said above. He gives a good  résume of the interpretations.