 HISTORY OF THE WOMAN TAKEN IN ADULTERY
	[ Joh 7:53 to John 8:11 .] THE HISTORY OF THE WOMAN TAKEN IN ADULTERY. See var. readd.; and a very complete discussion of the authorities for and against the passage in Lücke (edn. 3), ii. 243 256. The critical examination of the genuineness of this passage is attended with many and complicated difficulties. Setting aside here purely diplomatic evidence (for which see var. readd.), we may observe (1) that  at first sight , the reasons given by Aug [117] and Nicon seem enough to warrant the inference that it was expunged on account of the supposed licence given by it to sin. And this has been the hypothesis generally adopted by those who would override critical difficulties by strong autocratic assertion. Even Stier and Ebrard decide thus, without pausing to examine the real complications of the question. But (2) granting that such an hypothesis might be admissible as regards ch. John 8:3-11 , I do not see how the whole passage can be involved in it, especially the opening John 7:53 , which would naturally appear to form a sequel to what has preceded, and would surely never have been expunged with the offensive paragraph. (3) No such hypothesis as this will account for the coexistence of so many distinct and independent texts, apparently none of which owes its origin to any attempt to remove matter of offence. This phænomenon (not that of the  abundance of various readings , from which it is totally distinct) points undoubtedly to some inherent defect in the text of the passage itself, irrespective of all treatment subsequent to its establishment as a part of the sacred narrative. (4) At the same time it is an embarrassing circumstance, that the contents of the passage are of such a kind, as to give every countenance to the supposition above dealt with. Had they been otherwise, we should have been much more free in pronouncing a critical decision for or against it. (5) Another difficulty is presented by the very general concurrence of the MSS. containing the passage, in placing it  here . If it was not originally found in the text, why should this place, of all others, have been selected for its insertion? It has no connexion with the context: belongs, apparently, to another portion of our Lord’s ministry: what could induce the interpolators to place it here? (6) Nor are we helped much by its variations of position in some MSS. The end of Luke 21:0 . seems most to approve itself as the fitting place. but if it was the original one, it is totally inexplicable that we should find no trace of the fact  there , except in four of the (best) cursive mss. Its occurrence  here then, seems to me much  in its favour . (7) After all, the most weighty argument  against the passage is found in its  entire  diversity from. the style of narrative of our Evangelist . It is not merely that many words and idioms occur which John never uses, but that the whole cast and character of the passage is alien from his manner, in whichever of the existing texts we read it. (It would be hardly worth while to cite an opinion which affirms that “such a course of argument is very fallacious, leads to nothing but endless  logomachies , and can never settle a question of this kind” (Bloomf. edn. 9), were it not earnestly to remind my readers, that the more the sacred text is  really studied , the more such considerations, duly and cautiously weighed, will be urged and appreciated.) (8) Balancing all these difficulties, I am almost disposed, as a desperate resource, to adopt the following hypothesis; not as by any means satisfying or even recommending itself to me, but as really the only one which seems at all to shew us a way out of the ænigma: That the Evangelist may have, in this solitary case, incorporated a  portion of the current oral tradition into his narrative: that this portion may have been afterwards variously corrected, from the Gospel of the Hebrews, or other traditional sources: that being seen in early times to be alien from John’s diction, it may have been by some replaced in the synoptic narrative, in its apparent chronological place, at Luke 21:0 fin.: or inserted variously in this Gospel from the mere fact of having dropped out here. Then again the contents of the passage would operate with the above causes to its exclusion altogether from many MSS.: and the fact of some excluding only ch. John 8:3-11 , seems certainly to shew that the  moral element  did operate in the matter. (9) Dropping all idea of the hypothesis just suggested, our conclusion on the data must I think be,  to retain the passage , as we retain Mark 16:9 ff., with a distinction from the rest of the text. With regard to the question,  what text of the passage itself to adopt , it would seem idle to attempt to unite into one by critical processes texts which seem to be due to different sources. Our solution of the question must be merely formal and diplomatic. And, thus solving it, it has been thought best in this Edition to give the text as it is found in the only one of our most ancient MSS. which contains it: the amount and nature of the variations being fully seen in the accompanying Digest. In adopting this plan, it will be observed that no judgment whatever is given on the purity of the text thus adopted, no approval whatever of the Codex Bezæ as a  fons lectionum : our proceeding is simply a formal and objective one, adopted as a necessity where no other seemed even moderately satisfactory.
	 [117]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430