CH. Rev 21:1 to Revelation 22:5 .]  The new heavens and new earth: the glories of the heavenly Jerusalem . The whole of the things described in the remaining portion of the book are subsequent to the general judgment, and descriptive of the consummation of the triumph and bliss of Christ’s people with Him in the eternal kingdom of God. This eternal kingdom is situated on the purified and renewed earth, become the blessed habitation of God with his glorified people.  And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first (i. e. old, see ref.)  heaven and the first earth were departed: and the sea exists no longer (see on the whole, Isaiah 65:17 . The vision does not necessarily suppose the annihilation of the old creation, but only its passing away as to its outward and recognizable form, and renewal to a fresh and more glorious one. And though not here stated on the surface, it is evident that the method of renewal is that described in 2 Peter 3:10 ff.; viz. a renovation by  fire . This alone will account for the unexpected and interesting feature here introduced, viz. that the sea exists no longer. For this the words mean (see Rev 21:4 ), and not as Düsterd., that the (former) sea, as well as the former heaven and earth, had passed away).  And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem (see especially ref. Gal., ἡ  ἄνω Ἱερους ., and note),  coming down out of heaven from God (Schöttg. quotes from the remarkable Jewish book Sohar, Gen. f. 69, c. 271, “R. Jeremias dixit, Deus S. B. innovabit mundum suum, et ædificabit Hierosolymam, ut ipsam descendere faciat in medium sui de cœlo, ita ut nunquam destruatur.” See Schöttg.’s dissertation “de Hierosolyma cœlesti,” in his vol. i. 1205 ff.),  prepared as a bride adorned for her husband (as in our common discourse, so here with the Evangelist, the name of the material city stands for the community formed by its inhabitants. But it does not follow in his case, any more than in ours, that both material city and inhabitants have not a veritable existence: nor can we say that the glorious description of  it , presently to follow, applies only to  them . On the figure, see Isa 61:10 to Isa 62:5 ).  And I heard a great voice out of the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle (i. e. dwelling: the allusion being to the tabernacle in the wilderness, in which God dwelt in symbol only)  of God is with men, and He shall dwell (tabernacle)  with them, and they shall be his people (plur., because, as in Revelation 21:24 , many nations shall now partake in the blessed fulfilment of the promise),  and He shall be God with them (the name Emmanuel, μεθ ʼ ἡμῶν ὁ θεός , first then being realized in its full significance),  their God (so the ancient promises are fulfilled, Exodus 29:45 ; Leviticus 26:11 ; Eze 37:27 ):  and [  God ]  shall wipe away every tear from their eyes (reff.):  and death shall exist no longer (ch. Rev 20:14 ),  and (Gr. nor)  mourning ( Isa 65:19 )  and (nor)  crying and (nor)  pain shall exist no longer: [  because ]  the first (former state of)  things are passed away. And He that sitteth on the throne (see note, ch. Rev 20:11 )  said, Behold, I make all things new. And he (probably the angel, or voice from heaven, that gave the Seer similar commands before, ch. Revelation 14:13 , Revelation 19:9 . This seems probable on account of the change to the formula λέγει , as well as from the nature of the command: for we have εἶπέν μοι resumed immediately with the  ἐγώ , leaving no doubt Who speaks)  saith, Write: because these words are faithful and true. And He said to me (viz. ὁ καθήμενος ἐπὶ τοῦ θρόνου ), [  They are fulfilled (viz. οὗτοι οἱ λόγοι : or, but I prefer the other, πάντα ).]  I am (or, excluding the portions in brackets,  I have become )  the Alpha and the Omega (see above, ch. Rev 1:8 ),  the beginning and the end (“the Unchangeable and Everlasting One, by Whom the old was and the new shall be, by Whom the old is fulfilled in the new, and with it all hope and all promise.” De Wette).  I to him that thirsteth will give [  to him ]  of the fountain of the water of life freely (cf. ch. Revelation 7:17 , and reff. Isa. and John: cf. also Mat 5:6 ).  He that conquereth shall inherit these things (the glories to be shewn in the heavenly Jerusalem),  and I will be to him (  a )  God, and he shall be to me a son (this will be the full performance to the sons of God of the promise in ref. 2 Kings: which being first made to Solomon, received its chief fulfilment in the great Son of David and of God (ref. Heb.), and now in Him to them that are His).  But to the cowardly (the contrast to νικῶντες : the ὑποστελλόμενοι of Hebrews 10:38 ; those who shrink timidly from the conflict),  and the unbelievers, and the polluted with abominations (those who have partaken of the βδελύγματα in ch. Revelation 17:4 , of idolatries, &c.),  and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers (the form φαρμακός , found only in ref. in the N. T., is the common one in the LXX. See besides ref. and other places in Exodus, Deuteronomy 18:11 ; Daniel 2:2 ; Malachi 3:5 . The form φαρμακεύς does not occur in the LXX),  and idolaters, and all the false (i. e. all liars),  their part (the construction is changed: instead of οὐκ ἔσται μέρος ἐν κ . τ . λ ., it proceeds in the affirmative, implying that negative and expressing more) (  shall be )  in the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death (reff.).