 18 27 .]  Material , and further description of the city.  And the building-work (Jos. in ref. is speaking of the harbour of Cæsarea, as built by Herod the Great: he describes it as being τῇ δομήσει περίβλεπτον , because the materials were costly and brought from a distance: and says, ἡ δὲ ἐνδόμησις ὅσην ἐνεβάλετο κατὰ τῆς θαλάττης εἰς διακοσίους πόδας . This would be, as appears when he afterwards describes (as here) its materials, a mole or breastwork, against the sea. The word seems to be no where else found)  of the wall of it (  was )  jasper (ch. Revelation 4:3 , note),  and the city (  was )  pure gold ( χρυσός , the metal itself: χρυσίον , the same wrought into any form for use: so with ἄργυρος and ἀργυρίον )  like to pure glass (i. e. ideal gold, transparent, such as no gold is here, but surpassing it in splendour).  The foundation-stones of the wall of the city (see above, Rev 21:14 ) (  were )  adorned with every (cf. πᾶν , ch. Rev 18:12 )  precious stone (not that the stones were merely set on the θεμέλιοι , but that the θεμ . themselves  consisted of them: see below, and cf. Isa 54:12 ):  the first foundation-stone (  was )  jasper (the material of the upper building of the wall, Rev 21:18 ),  the second, sapphire ( סַפִּיר , reff. The stone described under this name by Pliny seems to be our lapis lazuli: he says, xxxvii. 39, “Sapphirus et aureis punctis collucet. Cæruleæ et sapphiri, raroque cum purpura.” But the sapphire of the Scriptures seems more like the present hard sky-blue stone known by that name: see ref. Ezekiel 1:0 ; and Winer, Realw., Edelstein, 5),  the third, chalcedony (this name is unknown: corresponding perhasps to שְׁבוֹ , Exodus 28:19 ; Exodus 39:12 [ Exo 36:18 ], which the LXX and Josephus render ἀχάτης , agate. There seems to have been an agate brought from Chalcedon. It is described as semi-opaque, sky-blue, with stripes of other colours: “morientibus arboribus similes,” Plin. xxxvii. 30. See Winer, ut supra, 8, and 16),  the fourth, emerald (note, ch. Rev 4:3 ),  the fifth, sardonyx ( יַהֲלוֹם , Exodus 39:11 ; Ezekiel 28:13 ; Pliny, xxxvii. 24, says, “Sardonyches olim ut ex nomine ipso apparet, intelligebantur candore in sarda, hoc est velut carnibus in ungue hominis imposito, et utroque translucido.” The ancient versions and Josephus call it onyx. See Winer, ut supra, 6),  the sixth, sardius (ch. Revelation 4:3 , note),  the seventh ,  chrysolith ( תַּרִשִׁישׁ : reff. al. and Josephus thus render it. The stone at present so called is pale green, transparent, and crystallized with shifting colours. But the ancient chrysoliths are described by Pliny as “aureo fulgore translucentes,” and have been supposed the same as our topaz: or by some, as amber: see Winer, ut supra, 10),  the eighth, beryl ( שֹׁהַם , ref. Exod.: rendered by the LXX in Genesis 2:12 , λίθος ὁ πράσινος , and variously in other places. Epiphanius in Wetst. says, βηρύλλιον γλαυκίζων μέν ἐστι θαλασσοβαφής , ἔχων εἶδος καὶ τῆς ὑδαρεστέρας ὑακίνθου : and Pliny xxxvii. 20, “viriditatem puri maris imitantur,” Winer, ut supra, 11),  the ninth, topaz ( פִּטְדָה , reff. and al. Strabo describes it as διαφανής , χρυσοειδὲς ἀπολάμπων φέγγος , xvi. p. 770, Wetst., where see more testimonies. But Plin. xxxvii. 32, says “egregia etiamnum to-pazio gloria est, suo  virenti genere:” whence some have supposed it our chrysolith: see above. Cf. Job 28:19 ; and Winer ut supra, 2),  the tenth, chrysoprasus (this word is found only in Pliny, xxxvii. 20, “vicinum genus huic (beryllo) est pallidius, et a quibusdam proprii generis existimatur, vocaturque chrysoprasus:” and 21, “amethysti fulgens purpura”),  the eleventh, jacinth ( לֶשֶׁם : so alii apud Tromm. in Exodus 28:19 , where the LXX have λιγύριον , which again occurs in Ezekiel 28:13 , where לֶשֶׁם is not found: while in Exo 28:20 Symm. renders תַּרְשִׁישׁ by ὑάκινθος . The word is not found in LXX as the name of a gem. Pliny, xxxvii. 41: “ille emicans in amethysto fulgor violaceus dilutus est in hyacintho”),  the twelfth, amethyst ( אַחְלָמָה reff. Pliny, xxxvii. 40, reckons the amethyst among the purple stones, and says of the best, the Indian, “absolutum felicis purpuræ colorem habent … perlucent autem omnes violaceo colore.” So that it seems to be the stone now known by that name).  And the twelve gates, twelve pearls (Isaiah 54:12 , “carbuncles.” Wetst. quotes from the Rabbinical Bava Bathra, f. 75. 1: “Deus S. B. adducet gemmas et margaritas, triginta cubitos longas totidemque latas: easque excavabit in altitudinem xx cubitorum, et latitudinem x cubitorum, collocabitque eas in portis Hierosolymorum.” See many more in Wetst. and Schöttgen),  each one separately (reff.)  of the gates was (  made )  out of one pearl. And the street (generic: the street-material, throughout)  of the city (  was )  pure gold like transparent glass (see above on Rev 21:18 ).  And a temple I saw not in it: for the Lord God Almighty is the temple of it, and the Lamb (i. e. the inhabitants need no place of worship or sacrifice, the object of all worship being present, and the great Sacrifice Himself being there).  And the city hath not need of the sun nor yet of the moon, that they should shine on her (  αὐτῇ , dat. commodi):  for the glory of God (the brightness of His presence, the Shechinah: see above, Rev 21:11 )  lightened her, and her lamp was the Lamb (see Isaiah 60:19-20 . No assignment of the members of the sentence must be thought of, such as that ἡ δόξα τ . θεοῦ is her Sun, and τὸ ἀρνίον her Moon: so Grot. and Ewald (not De Wette, as Düsterd., who only thinks that φωτίζειν corresponds to the sun and λύχνος to the moon, but protests against applying these to the divine Persons separately)):  and the nations shall walk by means of her light (i. e. she shall be so bright as to serve for light, for sun and moon both, to the world that then is, and her inhabitants. For such inhabitants are clearly supposed; see below, and ch. Rev 22:2 ).  And the kings of the earth (no longer hostile to Christ)  bring (pres. of habit and certainty, as so often in this prophecy)  their (the kings’, not the nations’, as Rev 21:26 )  glory (cf. Isaiah 60:3 ; all in which they  glory )  into her: and her gates shall never be shut by day (i. e. in  meaning , shall never be shut, seeing it will always be day: shall never be shut, for if they were, they must be shut by day):  for night shall not exist there. And they (men)  shall bring the glory and the costliness of the nations into her (Isaiah 66:12 . Among the mysteries of this new heaven and new earth this is set forth to us: that, besides the glorified church, there shall still be dwelling on the renewed earth nations, organized under kings, and (ch. Rev 22:2 ) saved by means of the influences of the heavenly city).  And there shall never enter into her, every thing unclean, and working abomination and falsehood, but only (lit. except)  they that are written in the book of life of the Lamb (if then the kings of the earth, and the nations, bring their glory and their treasures into her, and if none shall ever enter into her that is not written in the book of life, it follows, that these kings, and these nations, are written in the book of life. And so perhaps some light may be thrown on one of the darkest mysteries of redemption. There may be, I say it with all diffidence, those who have been saved by Christ without ever forming a part of his visible organized Church).