 9 22:5 .]  More particular description of the heavenly Jerusalem .  And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, which (namely the angels, however strange it may seem)  were full of the seven last plagues (one of these angels had before shewn the Apostle the great harlot, ch. Revelation 17:1 . The contrast to that vision is maintained throughout these opening verses),  and he talked with me, saying, Hither, I will shew thee (hitherto verbatim as in ch. Rev 17:1 )  the bride, the wife of the Lamb (here likewise note the contrast to the succeeding context in ch. Revelation 17:1 , in the faithfulness and purity implied in these words).  And he carried me away in the spirit (ch. Rev 17:3 )  to (  ἐπί , as we say in some parts of England,  on to , combining motion towards and position upon)  a mountain great and high (so likewise when the vision of the heavenly city is vouchsafed to Ezekiel, Eze 40:1-2 ),  and shewed me the holy city Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God (this vision had begun in Revelation 21:2 , but the Apostle is now carried to this “specular mount” to have a nearer and fuller view of it. The city must not be conceived of as  on or covering the mountain, but as seen descending to a spot close by it: so in Ezekiel 40:2 , whether we read “by” or “upon” as in our margin),  having the glory of God (i. e. not merely brightness of a divine and celestial kind, but the glorious presence of God Himself, the Shechinah, abiding in her: see Revelation 21:23 ; also ch. Rev 15:8 ):  her brightness (henceforward the description goes on independent in construction of ἔδειξεν , and changes several times: so in ch. Revelation 1:15 ff. See Winer, edn. 6, § 59. 11.  φωστήρ , from Revelation 21:23 , is the effect of the divine glory shining in her: see reff. Gen., where it is used of the heavenly bodies) (  was )  like to a stone most precious, as it were to a jasper stone, crystal clear (Wetst. quotes from Psellus, ἡ ἴασπις φύσει κρυσταλλοειδής . See this “crystallizing” jasper discussed in note on ch. Revelation 4:3 . Ebrard thinks it is the diamond);  having (on the construction, see above)  a wall great and high, having (  also )  twelve gates (see Ezekiel 48:30 ff., where the same features are found in the description),  and at the gates (dat. after  ἐπί , of close juxtaposition, primarily of  addition )  twelve angels, and names inscribed (contrast to the ὀνόματα βλασφημίας , ch. Rev 17:3 ),  which are [  the names ]  of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel (it does not follow from this description either, 1. that the angels must necessarily be guardians, seeing that no foes remain to be guarded against: they are for the completeness and adornment of the city after the idea of a beautiful fortress, adopted to set it forth: or, 2. that, as in the Jewish books (see De Wette here), each gate is to be imagined as used by each tribe: the twelve tribes of Israel represent the whole people of God, and the city the encampment of Israel: see below).  From (on the side entering from)  the sun-rising three gates (Joseph, Benjamin, Dan, in Ezekiel 48:32 . In ch. Revelation 7:6 , Manasseh is substituted for Dan, which is omitted. See there),  from the north three gates (Reuben, Judah, Levi),  from the south three gates (Simeon, Issachar, Zebulun),  from the sun-setting three gates (Gad, Asher, Naphtali: Ezek. ibid. In Numbers 2:0 , the order of encampment is thus set down:  East , Judah, Issachar, Zebulun:  South , Reuben, Simeon, Gad:  West , Ephraim, Manasseh, Benjamin:  North , Dan, Asher, Naphtali).  And the wall of the city (the wall surrounding the city)  having (had: for masc. of the part., see ch. Rev 4:1 reff.)  twelve foundation-stones (i. e. probably, each portion of the wall joining two gates had a conspicuous basement, of one vast stone. Four of these, as Düsterd. observes, would be corner-stones, joining the third gate on one side to the first gate on the next),  and upon them (gen. over them, perhaps extending all their length)  twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb (cf. Ephesians 2:20 , where however the ruling idea is a different one, see the interpretation in the note. No inference can be drawn as has been drawn by some from this that the Writer was not himself an Apostle: see prolegg. § i. 84 ff.).