 15 17 .]  Its measurement : cf. Ezekiel 40:3-5 .  And he that  spoke with me had as a measure a golden reed (reff.)  that he might measure the city, and her gates and her wall. And the city lieth four-square (so E. V. well; is in shape tetragonal),  and her length is as great as [  also ]  her breadth (see below).  And he measured the city with the reed to the length of stadii of the amount of twelve thousands (such appears to be the construction. On the ἐπί , ‘  over ,’ of extent, see Winer, edn. 6, § 49, l. 3, a. We have it in the adverbial phrase ἐφ ʼ ὅσον , Romans 11:13 . The 12,000 stadii are in all probability the whole circumference, 1000 to each space between the gates);  the length and the breadth and the height of it are equal (the supposition of many expositors, that the city thus formed a monstrous cube, 3000 stadii in length, in breadth, and in height, really does not appear to be necessarily included in these words. Nay, it seems to be precluded by what next follows, where the angel  measures the height of the wall. For Düsterdieck’s idea that the  houses were 3000 stadii in height, while the wall was only 144 cubits, is too absurd to come at all into question. The words are open, this last consideration being taken into account, to two interpretations: 1) that the city, including the hill or rock on which it was placed, and which may be imagined as descending with it, formed such a cube as seems here described: or 2) that there is some looseness of use in the word ἴσα , and that we must understand that the length and breadth were equal to each other and the height equal all round: nearly so De Wette, al. Of these two I prefer the former, as doing no violence to the words, and as recalling somewhat the form of the earthly Jerusalem on its escarpment above the valley of the Kedron. Some such idea seems also to be pointed at in the rabbinical books, e. g. Bava Bathra, f. 75. 2, “Dixit Rabba, R. Jochananem dixisse, Deum S. B. tempore futuro Hierosolyma evecturum in altitudinem xii. milliarium S. D. Zach. xiv. 10. Quid est ‘in loco suo?’ talem esse futuram superne, qualis est infra. Rabba dixit, senex mihi narravit, se vidisse Hierosolymam priorem, quæ xii. milliarium erat. Dices, difficilem fore adscensum? sed scriptum est, Isaiah 60:8 .” And in Schir R. vii. 5, “Jerusalem tempore futuro dilatabitur ita ut pertingat usque ad portas Damasci, Zach. Revelation 9:1 … et exaltabitur ut pertingat usque ad thronum gloriæ, donec dicatur, locus mihi angustus est.” See more citations in Wetst,).  And he measured the wall of it (i. e. the  height of the wall of it),  of an hundred and forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, which is that of an angel (meaning that in this matter of measure, men and angels use the same. The interpretation, that in this particular case, the angel used the measure current among men (De Wette, al.), is ungrammatical.
	As to the height thus given, it may be observed that the height of Solomon’s porch, the highest part of his temple, was 120 cubits, 2 Chronicles 3:4 , and the general height of his temple, 30 cubits, 1Ki 6:2 ).