And Ananias went his way,.... He arose from off his bed or seat, where he was, went out of his house, and on the way to the place where Saul was; he had nothing more to say, his objections were answered; there was no room to excuse himself, nor did he now desire it, but quietly yields, and cheerfully obeys:and entered into the house; or "that house", the house of Judas, where Saul was, and whither Ananias was directed, Acts 9:11and putting his hands on him; on Saul, in the same form Saul had seen him, in vision, doing it: and which was done, either as a prayer gesture; or for the healing of him, the restoring him to his sight; or that he might receive the gifts of the Holy Ghost; and it may be on all these accounts: andsaid, brother Saul; he calls him "brother", not because he was of the same nation, but because he was now of the same faith; because he was a regenerate person, and belonged to the family of God, and was of the same household of faith: and this he said, not upon what he had received from Saul's own mouth, for he addressed him in this manner as soon as he came to him; but upon what the Lord had said concerning him; though it was indeed common with the Jewish doctors to salute one another with this name."When R. Jose ben Kisma was sick, R. Chanina ben Tradion went to visit him; he said unto him, Chanina, אחי אחי "my brother, my brother", c. o.''So Shemaiah called Abtalion his brother p. And in like manner R. Eleazar ben Azariah saluted R. Ishmael q. And R. Joshua speaks of R. Tarphon in the same language r:the Lord, even Jesus that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest that is, who appeared to Saul as he was in the way to Damascus; not that Jesus was in the way, for he was in heaven, and appeared from thence to Saul, who was in the way: and he mentions Jesus by name, and this appearance of his, partly to assure him of his mission from him; for otherwise he could have known nothing of his appearance to him; and partly to show the love of Christ to him, and though he had persecuted him in so violent a manner, he had a compassionate regard for him; as also to encourage and comfort him, who had been trembling, and astonished at what he had heard from Jesus. This same glorious person, adds he,hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight; his bodily sight, which he had been without three days, by the imposition of hands:and be filled with the Holy Ghost; with the extraordinary gifts of the Spirit, such as speaking with divers tongues, healing diseases, and the like; for as for the graces of the Spirit, and even Gospel light and knowledge, and gifts for preaching it, he had received these already.o T. Bab. Avoda Zara, fol. 18. 1. Vid. fol. 27. 2. p T. Bab. Yoma, fol. 35. 2. q T. Bab. Beracot, fol. 11. 1. r Misn. Yadaim, c. 4. sect. 3.