 6 .]  if at least (reff.: it refers back to  δικαίας above, and introduces a substantiation of it by an appeal to our ideas of strict justice)  it is just with (in the esteem of, reff.)  God to requite to those who trouble you, tribulation (according to the strict  jus talionis ),  and to you who are troubled, rest (reff.: literally,  relaxation: ‘the glory of the kingdom of God on its negative side, as liberation from earthly affliction.’ Lün.)  with us (viz. the writers, Paul, Silvanus, and Timotheus, who are troubled like yourselves: not ‘  with us (  all )  Christians ,’ as De W., al., for all Christians were not θλιβόμενοι , which is the condition of this ἄνεσις in our sentence: still less, ‘  with us Jews ,’ you being Gentiles (Bengel, al.))  at the revelation (manifestation in His appearing, reff.)  of the Lord Jesus from heaven (cf. 1Th 4:16 )  with the angels of His power (no hendiadys not as E. V., ‘his mighty angels,’ which as usual, obscures and stultifies the sense: for the  might of the angels is no element here, but His  might , of which they  are the  angels serving His power and proclaiming His might) in (the)  fire of flame (further specification of the  ἀποκάλυψις above: does not belong to the following. On the analogy, see Exodus 3:2 ; Exodus 19:18 ; Dan 7:9-10 )  allotting (distributing as their portion: reff.)  vengeance to those who know not God (the Gentiles, see reff.),  and to those (the  τοῖς repeated indicates a new class of persons)  who obey not the Gospel of our Lord Jesus (the unbelieving Jews, see Romans 10:3 ; Rom 10:16 ),  which persons (  οἵτινες , generic and classifying, refers back to their characteristics just mentioned, thus containing in itself the reason for τίσουσιν &c. following (against Ellic.). See ὅστις discussed by Hermann, Præf. ad Soph. Œd. Tyr. pp. vii xv)  shall pay the penalty of everlasting destruction from (local, as in Matthew 7:23 , ἀποχωρεῖτε ἀπ ̓ ἐμοῦ οἱ ἐργαζόμενοι τὴν ἀνομίαν , ‘apart from,’ see reff. (so Pisc., Beza, Schott, Olsh., Lünem., al.). It has been interpreted of  time , ‘  from the time of the appearing &c.’ (Chr., Œc., Thl., &c.), but ἀπὸ  προσώπου will not bear this: also of the  cause , which would make 2 Thessalonians 1:9 a mere repetition of ἐν τῇ ἀποκ . to διδόντος ἐκδ . above (so Grot., Beng., Pelt, De W., Baumg.-Crus., al.))  the face of the Lord and from the glory of his Power (i.e. from the manifestation of his power in the glorification of his saints (see ref. Isa.). De W. makes these words,  ἀπὸ δόξης κ . τ . λ ., an objection to the  local sense of  ἀπό  . But it is not so: the  δόξα being the visible localized result of the  ἰσχύς ; see next verse)  when He shall have come (follows on δίκην τίσουσιν &c. above. On the aor. subj. with ὅταν , see Winer, edn. 6, § 42. 5)  to be glorified (aor.: by the great manifestation at His coming)  in (not ‘  through ’ ( τουτέστι , διὰ , Chrys.: so Œc., Thl., Pelt, al.), nor ‘  among :’ but  they will be the  element of His glorification: He will be glorified  in them, just as the Sun is reflected in a mirror)  his saints (not angels, but holy men),  and to be wondered at in (see above)  all them that believed (aor. participle, looking back from that day on the past),  because our testimony to you (ref., not  τὸ ἐφ ̓ ὑμ ., as ἐφ ̓ belongs immediately to μαρτύριον )  was believed (parenthesis, serving to include the Thessalonians among the πιστεύσαντες ),  in that day (of which we all know: to be joined with θαυμασθ ., &c., not with ὅτι ἐπιστεύθη , &c., as Syr., Ambr., Grot., al., who also take ἐπιστ . as a future, ‘for in that day our testimony with regard to you will be substantiated.’ Most unwarrantable requiring also ἐπιστώθη instead of - εύθη .
	Calvin says, ‘repetit in die illa … ideo autem repetit, ut fidelium vota cohibeat, ne ultra modum festinent.’ I should rather say, to give more fixity and definiteness to the foregoing). We may observe, as against Jowett’s view of the arguments here being merely “they suffer now; therefore their enemies will suffer hereafter: their enemies will suffer hereafter; therefore they will be comforted hereafter,” that the arguments are nothing of the kind, resting entirely on the word δίκαιον , bringing in as it does all the relations of the Christian covenant, of them to God, and God to them, and by contrast, of God to their enemies and persecutors.