 11 .]  With a view to which (consummation, the ἐνδοξασθῆναι , &c., above, in  your case , as is shewn below: not ‘  wherefore ,’ as E. V., Grot., Pelt, &c.)  we pray also (as well as wish: had the καί imported (as Lün.) that the  prayer of the Apostle was added on behalf of the Thessalonians to the fact (?) of the ἐνδοξασθῆναι , it would have been καὶ ἡμεῖς προς .)  always concerning you, that (see note on 1Co 14:13 )  our God may count YOU (emphatic)  worthy (not ‘  make you worthy ,’ as Luth., Grot., Olsh., al., which the word cannot mean. The verb has the secondary emphasis: see below)  of your calling (just as we are exhorted to  walk ἀξίως τῆς κλήσεως ἧς ἐκλήθημεν , Eph 4:1 the calling being taken not merely as the first act of God, but as the enduring state produced by that act (see especially 1Co 7:20 ), the normal termination of which is,  glory . So that κλῆσις is not ‘the good thing to which we are called,’ as Lün.: which besides would require τῆς κλήσεως ἀξιώσῃ : now that τῆς κλήσεως is sheltered behind the verb, it is taken as a matter of course, ‘your calling,’ an acknowledged fact),  and may fulfil (complete, bring to its fulness in you)  all (possible)  right purpose of goodness (it is quite impossible, with many ancient Commentators, E. V., &c., to refer  εὐδοκίαν to  God ‘  His good pleasure .’ In that case we must at least have τὴν εὐδοκίαν and  ἀγαθωσ  . will not refer with any propriety either to God, of whom the word is never used (occurring Romans 15:14 ; Galatians 5:22 ; Eph 5:9 only, and always of MAN), or to the Thessalonians ( π . ἀγαθωσύνην εὐδοκίας ). It ( εὐδοκία ) must then apply to the Thessalonians, as it does to human agents in Philippians 1:15 . And then ἀγαθωσύνης may be either a gen.  objecti , ‘approval of that which is good,’ or a gen.  appositionis , a εὐδοκία  consisting in ἀγαθωσύνη . The latter I own seems to me (agst Ellic.) far the best: as ἀγαθωσύνη is in all the above citations a subjective quality, and the  approval of that which is good would introduce an element here which seems irrelevant)  and (all)  work of faith (activity of faith: see ref. 1 Thess. note. The genitive is again one of apposition),  in power (belongs to πληρώσῃ , q. d.  mightily ),  that &c. On  ὄνομα , cf. Philippians 2:9 ff. Lünemann refers ἐν αὐτῷ to ὄνομα , ‘and ye in  it :’ but surely the expression is one too appropriated in sacred diction, for it to refer to any but our Lord Himself: cf. 1 Corinthians 1:5 ; 2 Corinthians 13:4 ; Ephesians 1:4 ; Ephesians 4:21 ; Colossians 2:10 , al.