 Gift  (δοσις)--boon  (δωρημα). Both old substantives from the same original verb (διδωμ), to give. Δοσις is the act of giving (ending -σις), but sometimes by metonymy for the thing given like κτισις for κτισμα (Colossians 1:15). But δωρημα (from δωρεω, from δωρον a gift) only means a gift, a benefaction (Romans 5:16). The contrast here argues for "giving" as the idea in δοσις. Curiously enough there is a perfect hexameter line here: πασα δο / σις αγα / θη κα / παν δω / ρημα τε / λειον. Such accidental rhythm occurs occasionally in many writers. Ropes (like Ewald and Mayor) argues for a quotation from an unknown source because of the poetical word δωρημα, but that is not conclusive.From above  (ανωθεν). That is, from heaven. Cf. John 3:31; John 19:11.Coming down  (καταβαινον). Present active neuter singular participle of καταβαινω agreeing with δωρημα, expanding and explaining ανωθεν (from above).From the Father of lights  (απο του πατρος των φωτων). "Of the lights" (the heavenly bodies). For this use of πατηρ see Job 38:28 (Father of rain); 2 Corinthians 1:3; Ephesians 1:17. God is the Author of light and lights.With whom  (παρ' ω). For παρα (beside) with locative sense for standpoint of God see παρα τω θεω (Mark 10:27; Romans 2:11; Romans 9:14; Ephesians 6:9.Can be no  (ουκ εν). This old idiom (also in Galatians 3:28; Colossians 3:11) may be merely the original form of εν with recessive accent (Winer, Mayor) or a shortened form of ενεστ. The use of εν εν in 1 Corinthians 6:5 argues for this view, as does the use of εινε (εινα) in Modern Greek (Robertson, Grammar, p. 313).Variation  (παραλλαγη). Old word from παραλλασσω, to make things alternate, here only in N.T. In Aristeas in sense of alternate stones in pavements. Dio Cassius has παραλλαξις without reference to the modern astronomical parallax, though James here is comparing God (Father of the lights) to the sun (Malachi 4:2), which does have periodic variations.Shadow that is cast by turning  (τροπης αποσκιασμα). Τροπη is an old word for "turning" (from τρεπω to turn), here only in N.T. Αποσκιασμα is a late and rare word (αποσκιασμος in Plutarch) from αποσκιαζω (απο, σκια) a shade cast by one object on another. It is not clear what the precise metaphor is, whether the shadow thrown on the dial (αποσκιαζω in Plato) or the borrowed light of the moon lost to us as it goes behind the earth. In fact, the text is by no means certain, for Aleph B papyrus of fourth century actually read η τροπης αποσκιασματος (the variation of the turning of the shadow). Ropes argues strongly for this reading, and rather convincingly. At any rate there is no such periodic variation in God like that we see in the heavenly bodies. 