 10 .]  The same proof particularized in its highest and noblest point, the atonement: and at the same time this brought out, that the love manifested by it was all on God’s side, none on ours: was love to us when we were enemies, Romans 5:8 , and therefore all the greater. Ch. 1Jn 3:16 is very similar: except that there it is Christ’s personal love to us: here the Father’s, in sending His Son.  In this is love (“in this case,” “in this matter,” “herein,”  is, ‘is found,’ ‘exists ,’  ἡ ἀγάπη , Love; in the abstract: “  herein is Love ,” as E. V. This interpretation is necessary, on account of the disjunction which follows. If ἡ ἀγάπη meant, the love of God just spoken of, then it would be irrelevant to subjoin that this love was not our love to Him but His to us. Œc.’s comment is in the main right, though inaccurately expressed: ἐν τούτῳ δείκνυται ὅτι ἀγάπη ἐστὶν ὁ θεός ),  not that (the  ὅτι is the usual one, introducing the apodosis for which the ἐν τούτῳ prepares us: and οὐκ denies this. “In this is love, not in the fact that …, but in the fact that”.… Thus taken, there is no difficulty whatever in the sentence: cf. John 12:6 , 2 Corinthians 7:9 . Some Commentators have missed this, and thus found a difficulty. “ οὐχ ὅτι (  non quasi ) pro ὅτι οὐκ (  quasi non ),” says Grotius: but does not make his meaning very plain. Rosenm., who takes the transposition, explains it, “Quod, quamvis nos non amavissemus Deum, ille tamen amaret nos.” Justiniani takes ὅτι as “  because ” both times, and regards the apodosis as beginning at καὶ ἀπέστειλεν )  we loved God (the aor., corresponding to the aor. below, marks the verb as referring to an indefinite time past no act of love of ours to God at any time done furnishes this example of love, but an act of His towards us. It is not the  nature of our love to God, as contrasted with His to us, of which the clause treats, but the non-existence of the one love as set against the historical manifestation of the other. Again that “He loved us, though we did not love Him,” is so far in the words as it is given by the context (see above), but is not the meaning of the words themselves),  but that He loved us (aor., referring again to an act of Love, which is now specified),  and (proved this love in that He)  sent His Son a propitiation (see on ch, 1Jn 2:2 )  for (see ibid.)  our sins (His death being therein implied, by which that propitiation was wrought, Ephesians 1:7 ; and that, God’s giving His own Son to death for us, being the greatest and crowning act of divine Love).