 2, 3 a .]  Test, whereby the spirits are to be tried .  In this (see above, ch. 1 John 3:10 , &c.)  ye know (apprehend, recognize.  γινώσκετε is taken as imperative, on account of the preceding πιστεύετε and δοκιμάζετε , by Huther, De Wette, Lücke (most Commentators do not touch it). But on account of the very frequent ἐν τούτῳ γινώσκομεν , I should let analogy prevail, and take it as indicative)  the Spirit of God (the Holy Spirit, present, inspiring, and working in men’s spirits).  Every spirit which confesseth (“spiritui tribuitur actio quæ hominis est per spiritum.” Schlichting. The confession is necessarily, from the context here, not the genuine and ascertained agreement of lips and life, but the outward and open profession of faith: see 2 John 1:7-10 , where ταύτην τὴν διδαχὴν .… φέρειν is its equivalent)  Jesus Christ come in the flesh ( Ἰ . χρ . primary predicate: ἐν σαρκὶ ἐληλυθότα , secondary predicate: = Ἰ . χρ . ἐρχόμενον ἐν σαρκί , 2 John 1:7 . Cf. the same arrangement of predicates 1 Corinthians 1:23 , κηρύσσομεν χριστὸν ἐσταυρωμένον : 2 Corinthians 4:5 , κηρύσσομεν χριστὸν Ἰησοῦν κύριον . In all these cases it is important to observe, that the construction is not equivalent to an accusative with an infinitive, Ἰ . χριστὸν ἐν σαρκὶ ἐληλυθέναι . If it were, the confession, or the preaching, would be simply of the fact announced: whereas in each case it is the PERSON who is the object or primary predicate: the participle carrying the attributive or secondary predicate. This is abundantly shewn here, by the adversative clause, where it is simply μὴ ὁμολογοῦν τὸν Ἰησοῦν . The confession required is, “Jesus Christ come in the flesh:” ἐληλυθώς here standing midway between the ἐρχόμενος of 2 John 1:7 , which is altogether timeless, and the ἐλθών of ch. 1 John 5:6 , which is purely historical. This perfect gives the present endurance of a past historical fact.
	If we enquire what that fact is, we are met by two widely divergent interpretations. On the one side we have the Socinian view, which, while it keeps to the strict philological sense of the words,  ἐν σαρκί and  ἔρχεσθαι (see below), distorts the meaning to bring the Apostle into accord with the tenets of that school: e. g. Socinus: “Jesum Christum, i. e. Jesum qui dicitur Christus, non modo mortalem hominem fuisse, sed etiam innumeris malis et denique ipsi cruentæ morti obnoxium:” and Grotius, “non cum regia pompa et exercitibus, sed in statu humili, abjecto, multisque malis ac postremum cruci obnoxio.” But no such sense of ἐν σαρκί can be or has been attempted to be adduced. On the other hand we have many of the orthodox expositors, who strive to make the words not implicative only, but directly assertive of the Incarnation. So Piscator, who plainly asserts that  ἐν σαρκί = εἰς σάρκα : so others who waver between ἐν and εἰς , e. g. Hunnius, “tunc venire in carne dicitur Jesus Christus, quando λόγος ex sua velut arcana sede prodiens assumta visibili carne se in terris manifestat:” so Bengel (apparently), al. And among this number must proximately be reckoned Augustine, who introduces in the train of the Incarnation the death and redeeming love of Christ, and makes the confession or denial depend on “caritatem habere:” “Deus erat et in carne venit: Deus enim mori non poterat, caro mori poterat: ideo ergo venit in carne ut moreretur pro nobis. Quemadmodum autem mortuus est pro nobis? Majorem hac caritatem nemo habet, quam ut animam suam ponat pro amicis suis. Caritas ergo illum adduxit ad crucem. Quisquis ergo non habet caritatem, negat Christum in carne venisse.” As between these two, the recent Commentators, Lücke, De Wette, Düsterd., Huther, appear to have taken the right path, in keeping ἐν strictly to its proper meaning, ‘  in ,’ ‘clothed with,’ = διὰ , ch. 1 John 5:6 ; and ἔρχεσθαι also to its proper meaning, to “  come forward ,” “  appear ,” “  prodire :” and in interpreting the words as directed against the Docetæ, who maintained that the Son of God had only an apparent, not a real human body.
	I cannot however agree in Huther’s view, that Ἰησοῦν is here to be taken alone as the object, and χριστὸν ἐν σαρκὶ ἐληλ . together as predicate: Jesus as Christ come in the flesh. For first, it would be against the usage of our Apostle, see ch. 1 John 5:1 , in this case, to leave out the article before χριστόν : secondly, Ἰησοῦν χριστόν thus in conjunction, could hardly but express the joint Name so well known: and thirdly, the sense required, that Jesus is the Christ, is assumed, by the very juxtaposition of the names. The words imply the præ-existence and incarnation by their very terms: but they do not  assert these doctrines, only the verity of our Lord’s human nature),  is of God (has its origin and inspiration from Him by His Spirit):