 20 .] The connexion is most close: and the error great of those who, as e. g. Erdmann, have made a new section begin here. This ἀγάπη is universal, necessarily manifested in  both of the two great departments of its exercise. Love, living and working in the heart as a principle, will fix first upon objects at hand and seen: those objects being natural objects for it to fix on. How then can a man love God, the highest object of love, who is removed from his sight, and at the same time refuse to love his brother, bearing the mark of a child of God, before his eyes from day to day? Put in a brief form, the argument, as connected with the last verse, is this: His love has begotten  us anew in love: in this  us are included our brethren; objects of our daily sight: if therefore we do not love them, we do not love Him.  If any say (aor. “have said;” i. e. at any time: the saying once, rather than the habit, is the hypothesis)  I love God, and hate (pres. of habit)  his brother, he is a liar: for (here again the argument is enthymematic, and we must supply from our common sense ἐφελκυστικὸν γὰρ ὅρασις πρὸς ἀγάπην , Œc.: “oculi sunt in amore duces,” &c.)  he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen (perf.: and continues to feel the influence of that sight. We do not say “I have seen him” of the dead, but of the living only),  cannot love God whom he hath not seen (St. John does not say that there is no love without sight; nor that we love all we see better than any thing we do not see: his argument rests on a deeper and truer position: viz. on that assumed in the word ἀδελφόν , which carries with it the consideration that he of whom it is said is begotten of God. Both ὁ ἀδελφός and ὁ θεός are used within the limits of the Christian life, of which that is true, which is unfolded ch. 1 John 5:1 , that this ἀδελφός as begotten of God is a necessary object of love to one that loves Him that begat him.  Here , a lower step of the same argument is taken; but without this great truth, lying beneath the word ἀδελφός , it would carry no conviction with it).