 6 .]  contrast .  We (emphatic, as opposed to them: but who are meant? The Apostles and their companions in the ministry, or all believers? Or again, all teachers of God’s truth, the Apostles included? It is hardly likely that the wider meaning has place here, seeing that 1) he has before said ὑμεῖς ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ ἐ?James , , 2 ) he is here opposing one set of  teachers to another. On the other hand, it is not likely that he should confine what is said to the Apostles only: such as are mentioned with praise in 3Jn 1:5-8 would surely be included)  are of God (see above):  he that knoweth (pres.: apprehendeth: hath any faculty for the knowledge of. The Apostle sets  ὁ γινώσκων τὸν θεόν in the place of ὁ ὢν ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , as belonging more immediately to the matter in hand, the hearing, and receiving more knowledge. This γινώσκειν τὸν θεόν , the apprehension and recognition of God, is the peculiar property of God’s children, not any natural faculty in which one unrenewed man differs from another. All rationalistic interpretations of these words, e. g., that of Socinus, Schlichting, al. “animi probitas et studium ea faciendi quæ Deo probantur,” are quite beside the purpose)  God heareth us: he who is not of God doth not hear us (here we must remember carefully, what the context is, and what its purpose. The Apostle is giving a test to distinguish, not the children of God from those who are not children of God, but the spirit of truth from the spirit of error, as is clear from the words following. And this he does by saying that in the case of the teachers of the truth, they are heard and received by those who apprehend God, but refused by those who are not of God. It is evident then that these two terms here, ὁ γινώσκων τὸν θεόν , and ὃς οὐκ ἔστιν ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , represent two patent matters of fact, two classes open and patent to all: one of them identical with the κόσμος above: the other consisting of those of whom it is said above, ἐγνώκατε τὸν πατέρα , … ἐγνώκατε τὸν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , ch. 1 John 2:13-14 . How these two classes are what they are, it is not the purpose of this passage to set forth, nor need we here enquire: we have elsewhere tests to distinguish them, ch. 1 John 3:9-10 , and have there gone into that other question. We have a striking parallel, in fact the key to these words, in the saying of our Lord to Pilate, Joh 18:37 ).  From this (viz., not, as Düsterd., al., the whole foregoing train of circumstances; nor, those tests proposed in 1 John 4:2-3 ; but the facts set forth in 1 John 4:5-6 ; the reception of the false teachers by the world the reception of the true teachers by those that apprehend God, and their rejection by those who are not of God: as Schlichting, who however means the words in his rationalistic sense, “ex assensu et dissensu proborum et improborum.” The same point is touched by our Lord in John 10:8 , ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ ἤκουσαν αὐτῶν τὰ πρόβατα )  we know (in this unemphatic first person the Apostle includes his readers: we, all God’s children.  γινώσκομεν ,  distinguish, recognize , as so often)  the Spirit of truth (the Spirit that cometh of God and teacheth truth: see reff.)  and the spirit of error (the spirit that cometh of the devil, teaching lies and seducing men into error: see ch. 1 John 1:8 , 1Jn 2:26 ).