 12 .]  God hath no one ever beheld (what is the connexion of these words, so suddenly and startlingly introduced? It is evident that 1Jn 4:12 is connected with 1 John 4:11 , by the words ἐὰν ἀγαπῶμεν ἀλλήλους , taking up again ὀφείλομεν ἀλλήλους ἀγαπᾷν . But it is also evident that it is connected with 1Jn 4:13 by the ἐν ἡμῖν μένει , κ . τ . λ . And it is further plain, that these words, θεὸν οὐδεὶς πώποτε τεθέαται , must have some close reference to ἀλλήλους ἀγαπᾷν , seeing that they stand between those words in 1 John 4:11 , and the resumption of them in 1 John 4:12 . It would appear by this, that the idea of connecting them with ἡμεῖς τεθεάμεθα , 1 John 4:14 , in the sense, “but we have truly beheld,” &c., as Carpzov., is a mistake. Œc. (and similarly Thl. and Aretius) takes it as if some objector were introduced, ἀκόλουθον δ ʼ ἦν εἰπεῖν τινα , καὶ πόθεν τοῦτο λέγεις περὶ πραγμάτων ἀθεάτων καὶ ἀνεφίκτων , καὶ διαβεβαιοῖς ἡμᾶς οἷς μήπω τις ἔγνωκε ; and that the Apostle, συντρέχων τοῖς οὕτω λέγουσι φησὶ καὶ αὐτὸς ὅτι θεὸν μὲν οὐδεὶς ἑώρακε πώποτε , σύμφημι καὶ αὐτός . ἀλλ ʼ ἐκ τῆς εἰς ἀλλήλους ἀγάπης φησὶ γινώσκομεν ὅτι ὁ θεὸς ἐν ἡμῖν ἐστι . But of this  objection there is not the slightest trace in the text: and had the Apostle intended to adduce such an one, he would, as Düsterd. well observes, have replied to it not from the effect of our love to one another, but from the facts of the mission and ministry of the Son of God. Of the remaining Commentators, there are two great divisions. The first consists of those who take the axiom as referring forward to ὁ θεὸς ἐν ἡμῖν μένει : i. e. our inner communion of life with God whom we have not seen must be realized and will be realized, by love towards one another: so the Scholl., I., ὁ ἀόρατος θεὸς κ . ἀνέφικτος διὰ τῆς εἰς ἀλλήλους ἀλάπης ἐν ἡμῖν μένει , and II., τοῦτο οὖν κατορθώσει , φησίν , ἡ ἀγάπη , τὸ ἔνοικον ἡμῖν γενέσθαι θεόν , ὃν οὐδεὶς πώποτε τεθέαται . And so Hunnius, Seb.-Schmidt, Spener, Joach. Lange, Socinus, Grot., Rosenm., Baumg.-Crus., Rickli, Neander, De Wette, Sander, Düsterd., Huther, al. Düsterd. quotes Rickli’s representation of this view as the best: “To behold God, to perceive Him immediately and according to His infinite divine essence, is given to no man here: we cannot apprehend God: but then in the highest and the best manner do we perceive Him inwardly, as His true children, if we love one another, for then God abideth in us.” And all this is most true. But I would submit that although it might explain 1Jn 4:12 and what follows, it does not explain the place of 1Jn 4:12 in the context at all. How comes the Apostle thus suddenly to introduce this axiom and what follows it? Clearly, 1 John 4:11 ; 1Jn 4:14 are connected: the same strain of argument is going on, and it is most improbable that a thought thus foreign to that argument would be introduced into the midst of it. Obviously, this is a great defect in this interpretation. Let us turn to the other, and see whether we have it supplied. It takes the words as saying this: “We cannot  immediately return to the invisible God the love which He has shewn to us: for no man has ever seen Him: i. e. He is not to be seen by any. But if we love our brethren, whom we do see, God abides in us, we are His children, objects of His love, and so, by love to our brethren, love to God is perfected in us.” (Lücke.) And thus or nearly thus, Corn.-a-lap., Mayer, Schlichting, Episcopius, Bengel, Whitby, G. Lange, Jachmann.
	Now this interpretation, as above given, has the merit of being linked to what went before, by our inability to return God’s love: but I must feel that Düsterd.’s objection to it is fatal: it gives a sense wholly alien from St. John’s habit of thought, in alleging that we cannot return God’s love, and further alien in giving as a reason for this inability, that He is invisible. It would be a most unjustifiable use of 1 John 4:20 , to convert it thus and make it say that we  cannot love God whom we have not seen.
	Thus it appears that each view has something to recommend it, each something to discommend it. Is there no third way to be found? In examining 1 John 4:11 , we find an unexpected substitution, εἰ οὕτως ὁ θεὸς ἠγάπησεν ἡμᾶς , καὶ ἡμεῖς ὀφείλομεν (not τὸν θεόν , but) ἀλλήλους ἀγαπᾷν . Why so? Here, 1Jn 4:20 will guide us to an answer, if rightly used. Not, because we  cannot love God whom we have not seen: but because the exponents of God whom we have not seen are our brethren whom we do see. And the Apostle, in substituting ἀλλήλους , does not for a moment drop or set aside the higher τὸν θεόν , but in fact leads up to it by putting its lower and visible objects before us. And then 1Jn 4:12 comes in as an explanation, an apology as it were, for this substitution, in the following manner:  ἀλλήλους ἀλαπᾷν , I say: for the love to God, which is our ὀφειλή , is love towards one whom we have never seen, and cannot exist in us (as 1Jn 4:20 ) unless by and with its lower degrees as manifested towards our brethren whom we have seen. By our love to them are we to know, how far we have love to Him: if that be present, He dwelleth in us, and ἡ ἀγάπη αὐτοῦ τετελειωμένη ἐστὶν ἐν ἡμῖν . And thus (see below) the way is prepared for 1 John 4:15-16 , which take up and bring to a conclusion the reasoning):  if we love one another, God abideth in us (for the reason already stated in 1 John 4:8 , and restated in immediate connexion with this very matter in 1 John 4:16 , that God is Love, and every one that loveth is born of God, knows God, abides in God and God in him),  and (simply the copula: not as Calvin, “copulam accipit causalis particulæ loco”)  the love of Him (i. e.  ἡ ἀγάπη αὐτοῦ , as in ch. 1 John 2:5 , where we had the same expression,  our love to Him , not, as Beza, Bengel, Sander, al.,  His love to us . This is evident not merely from ch. 1 John 2:5 , but from the context here: see it explained above, and remember that it is our love to God which is here the subject, as evinced by our love to our brethren. This is further shewn by the recurrence of the same expression in 1 John 4:17 , ἐν τούτῳ τετελείωται ἡ ἀγάπη μεθ ʼ ἡμῶν , and 1 John 4:18 , ὁ φοβούμενος οὐ τετελείωται ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ . And so the majority of Commentators. Calvin proposes as a possible alternative, “caritas, quam nobis inspirat.” Socinus renders “dilectio quam ipse Deus nobis præscripsit.” But both these are forced, and agree neither with usage nor with the context)  is perfected (see note ch. 1 John 2:5 . Here, as there, it signifies, has reached its full maturity: the ἀγαπᾷν ἀλλήλους being the token and measure of it. The form τετελειωμένη ἐστίν , like all resolved forms of verbal tenses, brings out more strongly the peculiar temporal force of the verb substantive united with the import of the participle as a predicate. Hence in this case, the  present sense always contained in the perfect, predominates, and there is more reason than ever for rendering “is,” not “hath been”)  in us (on the view above maintained of ἡ ἀγάπη αὐτοῦ , ἐν ἡμῖν keeps its primary and obvious sense, “  in us ,” “within us,” as in ch. 1Jn 2:5 ).