 9, 10 .]  Proof of this as far as we are concerned, in God’s sending His Son to save us.  In this (viz. which follows: the ὅτι is the apodosis, as in ch. 1Jn 3:16 )  the love of God was manifested in regard to us (  ἐν ἡμῖν must be taken with the verb, not with  ἡ ἀγάπη , which in this case (  pace Huther : being the case of a particular manifestation of that which has been before generally stated. The combination of anarthrous predicatory clauses only takes place when the whole will bear running together into one idea, as τοῖς κυρίοις - κατὰ - σάρκα ) would require the article ἡ ἐν ἡμῖν . Many Commentators have thus wrongly connected it, and in consequence have been compelled to distort  ἐν into  εἰς : so Luther, Seb.-Schmidt, Spener, Beza, Socinus, Schlichting, Episcop., Grot., Benson, Neander, al. Bengel has fallen into the former fault, though not into the latter: “amor Dei qui nunc  in nobis est, per omnem experientiam spiritualem.” This is upheld also by Sander, who defends it by Galatians 1:16 , where a totally different matter is treated of.
	Connected then with the verb, it must not be taken as = εἰς , but as in reff., especially John 9:3 , where the same phrase occurs: “in,” i. e. “in the matter of,” in regard of: cf. 1Jn 4:16 below: the manifestation not being made  to us as its spectators, but in our persons and cases, as its “materies.”  ἡμῖν , communicative, believers in general),  that God hath sent (perf. The manifestation is regarded as one act, done implicitly when God sent His Son: but the sending is regarded in its present abiding effects, which have changed all things since it took place)  His only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him (no words can be plainer than these and need less explanation to any one acquainted with St. John. The endeavours of the old rationalists, Socinus, Schlichting, Grotius, to escape from the assertion of Christ’s præexistence, by rendering εἰς τὸν κόσμ . “ad mundum,” μονογ ., “dilectissimum,” &c., may be seen in Düsterd. He well remarks, “Such expositors may naturally be expected to give an answer to the question, how a Christ so understood could be our life ( 1Jn 4:9 ), our atonement ( 1Jn 4:10 ), or our salvation ( 1Jn 4:14 ).”
	The two emphatic words in the sentence are  μονογενῆ and  ζήσωμεν . This was the proof, that SUCH a Son of God was sent, that we might LIVE).