 1 .]  Beloved (so 1 John 4:7 , and ch. 1 John 3:2 ; 1 John 3:21 , marking a transition to a subject on which the Apostle affectionately bespeaks their earnest attention),  believe not every spirit (the expressions πᾶν πνεῦμα , τὰ πνεύματα , indicating plurality of spirits, are to he explained by the fact that both the Spirit of Truth and the spirit of error speak by the spirits of men who are their organs. So we have, in reference to prophecy, 1 Corinthians 14:32 , πνεύματα προφητῶν προφήταις ὑποτάσσεται . By the nature of the testimony of the human spirits, we shall know whether they are of God or not; whether they are organs of the πνεῦμα τῆς ἀληθείας or of the πνεῦμα τῆς πλάνης . It will be observed that this interpretation of πᾶν πνεῦμα , and the Apostle’s way of speaking, rest on the assumption of there being One Spirit of Truth, from God, and one spirit of error, from the world; as opposed to all rationalizing interpretations, such as “  sensus hominis aliquo modo inspiratus ,” Socinus; “  doctrina ,” Episcopius: as opposed also to all figurative understanding of the word, as Calv., “metonymice accipio pro eo qui spiritus dono se præditum esse jactat ad obeundum prophetiæ munus,” Beza, Grot., Whitby, Wolf, and even Lücke, who explains it by λαλοῦντες ἐν πνεύματι . It is not the men themselves, but their spirits as the vehicles of God’s Spirit or the spirit of antichrist, that are in question.
	In  πιστεύετε some have seen a figure drawn from the physical meaning of πνεῦμα ; so Corn.-a-lap., “Respicit ad nautas, qui non credunt omni spiritui, id est, vento.” But this is far fetched and unlikely, in the universal acceptance of the spiritual meaning of both words),  but try the spirits (this  δοκιμάζειν is enjoined not on the “ecclesia in suis prælatis,” as Estius and the R.-Cath. expositors, but on all believers, as even he reluctantly admits: and the test is one of plain matter of fact, of which any one can be judge. The Church by her rulers is the authoritative assertor of this δοκιμασία in the shape of official adoption or rejection, but only as moved by her component faithful members, according to whose sense those her formularies are drawn, of which her authorities are the exponents)  whether they are of God (bear the character of an origin from Him):  because (ground for the necessity of this trial)  many false-prophets (= ἀντίχριστοι πολλοί , ch. 1 John 2:18 ; προφῆται , not as foretelling future things, but as the month-pieces of the πνεῦμα which inspires them. Cf. 2 Peter 2:1 , where the N. T. false teachers are called ψευδοδιδάσκαλοι , and compared to the O. T. ψευδοπροφῆται )  are gone forth (scil. from him who sent them: even as Jesus Himself is said, John 8:42 ; John 13:3 ; John 16:27-28 , ἐξεληλυθέναι from God. Or we may take it as in ch. 1 John 2:19 , ἐξ ἡμῶν ἐξῆλθον , from the Church: but the other is more likely. Socinus and Grotius take it of “prodire ad munus suscipiendum:” but it certainly means more than this)  into the world (cf. John 16:28 , which tends to fix the ἐξεληλύθασιν above).