 17, 18 .] These verses, which are parallel with ch. 1 John 3:19-21 , set forth the confidence with which perfect love shall endow the believer in the great day of judgment.  In this is love perfected with us (for  ἐν τούτῳ , see below.  ἡ ἀγάπη , not, as Luther, Calv., Spener, Grot., Calov., Bengel, Sander, al.,  God’s love to us : this is forbidden by the whole context: our verse is introduced by ὁ μένων ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ , and continued by φόβος οὐκ ἔστιν ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ : it is love dwelling and advancing to perfection in us. And again, not love to God merely, nor love to our brethren merely; these are concrete manifestations of It: but love itself in the abstract the principle of love, as throughout this passage. This sense of ἀγάπη will point out that of  μεθ  ʼ   ἡμῶν , which belongs not to ἡ ἀγάπη but to the verb, as in 1 John 4:12 . Love is considered as planted in us; its degrees of increase take place μεθ ʼ ἡμῶν not merely “  bei uns ,” “  chez nous ,” πρὸς ἡμᾶς , but as  concerned with us ; in a sense somewhat similar to that in which ἐμεγάλυνεν κύριος τὸ ἔλεος αὐτοῦ μετ ʼ αὐτῆς , Luke 1:58 . See 2 John 1:2 , where however the idea of dwelling with is more brought out than here),  that we have confidence in the day of judgment (  ἵνα gives not the purpose of the τετελείωται , but the apodosis to the ἐν τούτῳ , as in reff.: “in this love is perfected in us, viz. that we, &c.” So most, and nearly all the best Commentators. Beza (and E. V.), Socinus, Grot., Mayer, give ἵνα its telic force, regarding ὅτι as the apodosis (not so E. V.), and assuming a trajection: the objection to which is, not the transposition, but the sense so gained, as belonging to the context. On this view, the aim given by the ἵνα comes in altogether disjointed from the context, and the perfection of love in us is stated to be found in a fact which is objective, not subjective. It is only necessary to cite Grotius’s exegesis to shew the incongruity, even in his understanding of ἡ ἀγάπη . “Hic est summus gradus dilectionis Dei erga nos, si qualis in hoc mundo Christus fuit, i. e. mundi odiis et propterea plurimis malis expositus tales et nos simus (John 15:18 ; 1 Peter 2:19 ; 1Pe 4:16 ). Ideo hoc Dens ita disponit, ut cum bona fiducia appareamus in die judicii. Nam constans perpessio malorum ad exemplum Christi efficit, ut a Christo optima exspectemus, quippe ipsi similes.” Can any thing be more broken and farfetched than such a connexion? to say nothing of its “si simus” for ὅτι ἐσμέν .
	On the right interpretation, the confidence which we shall have in that day, and which we have even, now by anticipation of that day, is the perfection of our love; grounded on the consideration ( ὅτι καθὼς κ . τ . λ .) which follows: casting out fear, which cannot consist with perfect love, 1Jn 4:18 ):  because even as He (Christ, see below)  is, we also are in this world (this is the reason or ground of our confidence: that we, as we now are in the world, are like Christ: and in the background lies the thought, He will not, in that day, condemn those who are like Himself. In these words, the sense must be gained by keeping strictly to the tenses and grammatical construction: not, as e. g. Œc. ὡς ἐκεῖνος ἦν ἐν τῷ κόσμῳ , by changing the tenses (so also Thl., Tirin., Corn.-a-Iap., Mayer, Grot., Luther, Calov., Rickli, al.), nor by referring the words ἐν τῷ κόσμῳ τούτῳ to Christ, as several of the above, and Socinus. And when we have adhered to tense and grammar, wherein is the likeness spoken of to be found? Clearly, by what has been above said, not in our trials and persecutions. Nor by our being not of the world as He is not of the world (Sander, who however adds, ‘clothed with His righteousness’): nor in that we, as sons of adoption through Him, are beloved of God, even as He is beloved (Tirinus, Neander); nor as Huther, in that we live in Love, as He lives in Love: but in that we are righteous as He is righteous, ch. 1 John 2:29 , John 3:3 ff., John 3:10 ; John 3:22 ; this being evinced by our abiding in Love. And so mainly (Œc., Thl., with the mistake pointed out above), Beza, Corn.-a-lap., Mayer, Socinus, Lücke, De Wette, Rickli, Düsterd., al. Many indeed of these approach to Huther’s view impugned above, and make it to be  love in which we are like Christ: but Düsterd. brings rightly this logical objection, that St. John does not say that Love is perfected in confidence in us, because we resemble Christ in Love; but he refers to the fundamental truth on which our Love itself rests, and says; because we are absolutely like Christ, because we are in Christ Himself, because He lives in us, for without this there cannot be likeness to Him; in a word, because we are, in that communion with Christ which we are assured of by our likeness to Him in righteousness, children of God, therefore our love brings with it also full confidence. Essentially, the reason here rendered for our confidence in the day of judgment is the same as that given ch. 1 John 3:21 f. for another kind of confidence, viz., that we keep His commandments. This also betokens the δικαιοσύνη , of which Christ is the essential exemplar and which is a necessary attribute of those who through Christ are children of God).