 18 .] Confidence in (or as understood, as to) that terrible day presupposes the absence of fear: and this casting out of fear is the very work of love, which in its perfect state cannot coexist with fear.  Fear (  φόβος , abstract and general: anarthrous, on account of the negative predication)  existeth not in love (  τῇ ἀγάπῃ , abstract and general also, as in 1 John 4:17 ; not “  God’s love to us ,” as Calv., Calov., Spener, al.: nor “  brotherly love ,” as Lücke, al.),  nay perfect (see on τετελείωται in 1Jn 4:17 )  love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment (see below):  but he that feareth hath not been perfected in (  his )  love . The points here to be noticed are, 1) the emphatic  οὐκ ἔστιν , which is better rendered as above, than “There is no fear in love,” in order to keep  φόβος , which is the subject in the Greek, also the subject in the English:
	2)  ἀλλά , which is not here the mere adversative after a negative clause, in which case it would refer to something in which fear  is , e. g. φόβος οὐκ ἔστιν ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ , ἀλλ ʼ ( ἐστιν ) ἐν τῷ μίσει : but it is the stronger adversative, implying “nay far otherwise:” “tantum abest ut … ut:”
	3) the argument in  ἀλλ  ʼ …   ἔχει , which is doubly enthymematic, having in it two assumptions or suppressed premisses, α ) that nothing having κόλασις can consist with perfect love: β ) that fear is in us by nature and needs  casting out in order to its absence:
	4) the meaning of  κόλασιν ἔχει . There are two opinions: a) that κόλασις is merely pain or torment; so Aug [72] (“tormentum habet”), Erasmus (“punitionem seu potius cruciatum habet”), Tirinus (“parit animi perturbationem cruciatum et tormentum, ob impendens, quod metuit, malum seu pœnam”), Luther, Calvin, Schlichting, Beza (and E. V.), Piscator, Aretius, Episcopius, Rosenm., Bengel (“nam diffidit, omnia inimica et adversa sibi fingit ac proponit, fugit, odit”), Joach. Lange (who interprets it, compunction at the preaching of the law), Sander, al.:
	 [72]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	b) that  κόλασις is properly  punishment . So Lyra (but mistaking κ . ἔχει ; “debetur pœna timori servili”), Corn.-a-lap., Estius (well: “pœnam, quam commeruit, semper animo versat”), Mayer, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., Spener, Benson, Whitby, Baumg.-Crus., Neander, Lücke (includes in itself punishment, i. e. consciousness of deserving it), De Wette, Düsterd., Huther. And this last is certainly the sense, both from the usage of the word (reff.), and from the context, in which the day of judgment is before us. Fear, by anticipating punishment, has it even now; bears about a foretaste of it and so partakes of it:
	5) the last clause, ὁ δὲ φοβούμενος οὐ τετελείωται ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ , is intimately connected with what follows (see on 1Jn 4:14 ) as well as with what went before. The  δέ is adversative to the whole preceding sentence, ἡ τελεία ἀγάπη κ . τ . λ ., and mainly to the idea of τελεία ἀγάπη therein expressed.
	As regards the absence of fear from the love of the Christian believer, it has been well observed by Œcum., that there are two kinds of godly fear, φόβος προκαταρκτικός , which afflicts men with a sense of their evil deeds and dread of God’s anger, and which is not abiding: and φόβος τελειωτικός , of which it is said, “The fear of the Lord is clean and endureth for ever,” Psalms 19:0 , and which δέους τοιούτου ἀπήλλακται . And Bengel says in his brief pointed manner, “Varius hominum status: sine timore et amore: cum timore sine amore: cum timore et amore: sine timore cum amore.” The difference is finely wrought out by Augustine, in loc. Tract. ix. 5 8, vol. iii. p. 2048 ff.