 27. ] The interpretation of this verse has been much disputed; viz. as to whether the casting out by the υἱοὶ Φαρισαίων (  scholars, disciples; see 2Ki 2:3 and passim) were real or pretended exorcisms. The occurrence mentioned Luk 9:49 does not seem to apply; for there John says, ἐπιστάτα , εἴδομέν τινα  ἐπὶ τῷ ὀνόματί σου ἐκβάλλοντα δ ., which hardly could have been the case with those here referred to. Nor again can the περιερχόμενοι Ἰουδαῖοι ἐξορκισταί of Act 19:13 be the same as these, inasmuch as they also named over the possessed  the name of the Lord Jesus: or at all events it can be no such invocation which is  here referred to. In Josephus (Antt. viii. 2. 5) we read that Solomon τρόπους ἐξορκώσεων κατέλειπεν , οἷς ἐνδόμενα τὰ δαιμόνια ὡς μηκέτ ʼ ἐπανελθεῖν ἐκδιώκουσι . καὶ αὕτη μέχρι νῦν παρ ʼ ἡμῖν ἡ θεραπεία πλεῖστον ἰσχύει . It is highly necessary to institute this enquiry as to the reality of their exorcisms: for it would leave an unworthy impression on the reader, and one very open to the cavils of unbelief, were we to sanction the idea that our Lord would have solemnly compared with his own miracles, and drawn inferences from, a system of imposture, which on that supposition, these Pharisees  must have known to be such. I infer then that the υἱοὶ Φαρ .  did really cast out devils; and I think this view is confirmed by what the multitudes said in ch. Matthew 9:33 , where upon the dumb speaking after the devil was cast out they exclaimed οὐδέποτε ἐφάνη οὕτως ἐν τῷ Ἰσραήλ : meaning that this was a more complete healing than they had ever seen before. The difficulty has arisen mainly from forgetting that miracles,  as such , are  no test of truth , but have been permitted to, and prophesied of, false religions and teachers. See Exodus 7:22 ; Exodus 8:7 ; ch. Matthew 24:24 , &c.: Deuteronomy 13:1-5 . There is an important passage in Justin Martyr, Dial. with Trypho, § 85, p. 182, as follows: κατὰ γὰρ τοῦ ὀνόματος αὐτοῦ τούτου τοῦ υἱοῦ τοῦ θεοῦ … πᾶν δαιμόνιον ἐξορκιζόμενον νικᾶται καὶ ὑποτάσσεται . ἐὰν δὲ κατὰ παντὸς ὀνόματος τῶν παρ ʼ ὑμῖν γεγενημένων ἢ βασιλέων , ἢ δικαίων , ἢ προφητῶν , ἢ πατριαρχῶν ἐξορκίζητε ὑμεῖς , οὐχ ὑποταγήσεται οὐδὲν τῶν δαιμονίων . ἀλλ ʼ εἰ ἄρα ἐξορκίζοι τις ὑμῶν κατὰ τοῦ θεοῦ Ἀβραὰμ καὶ θεοῦ Ἰσαὰκ καὶ θεοῦ Ἰακώβ , ἴσως ὑποταγήσεται . Irenæus (cited by Grotius) says that “hujus invocatione etiam ante adventum Domini nostri salvabantur homines a spiritibus nequissimis, et a dæmoniis universis,” and adds, “Judæi usque nunc hac ipsa invocatione dæmonas fugant.” Jer [121] , Chrys., Hil [122] , understand  υἱοὶ ὑμῶν to mean the Apostles: ὅρα κἀνταῦθα τὴν ἐπιείκειαν · οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν Οἱ μαθηταί μου , οὐδὲ Οἱ ἀπόστολοι , ἀλλ ʼ Οἱ υἱοὶ ὑμῶν … ὃ δὲ λέγει τοιοῦτόν ἐστιν · Οἱ ἀπόστολοι ἐν τίνι ἐκβάλλουσι ; … θέλων δεῖξαι ὅτι φθόνου ἦν τοῦ πρὸς αὐτὸν τὰ εἰρημένα μόνον .… Εἰ γὰρ ἐγὼ οὕτως ἐκβάλλω , πολλῷ μᾶλλον ἐκεῖνοι οἱ παρ ʼ ἐμοῦ τὴν ἐξουσίαν λαβόντες . ἀλλ ʼ ὅμως οὐδὲν τοιοῦτον εἰρήκατε αὐτοῖς . Chrys. Hom. xli. 2, p. 446.
	 [121]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	 [122]  Hilary, Bp. of Poictiers , 354
	 κριταὶ ὑμῶν ]  your judges, in the sense of  convicting you of partiality .