 39. ]  μοιχαλίς (see reff.), because they had been the peculiar people of the Lord, and so in departing from Him had broken the covenant of  marriage , according to the similitude so common in the Prophets.
	The expression  σημεῖον οὐ δοθ  .   αὐτῇ does not, as De Wette maintains, exclude our Lord’s miracles from being σημεῖα : but is the direct answer to their request in the sense in which we know they used σημεῖον , ‘a sign, not  wrought by Him, and so able to be suspected of magic art , but one  from Heaven .’ Besides, even if this were not so, how can the refusing to work a miracle  to satisfy them , affect the nature or signification of those wrought on different occasions, and with a totally different view? And yet on ground like this it is (De Wette, vol. i. p. 147) that rationalistic systems are built. τί οὖν ; οὐκ ἐποίησεν ἔκτοτε σημεῖον ; ἐποίησεν , ἀλλ ʼ οὐ δι ʼ αὐτούς , πεπωρωμένοι γὰρ ἦσαν , ἀλλὰ διὰ τὴν τῶν ἄλλων ὠφέλειαν . Euthym [125] in loc. Notice  ἐπιζητεῖ  ; not merely quærit, but requirit; misses, and demands as a sine quâ non. See Palm and Rost’s Lex. sub voce.
	 [125] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	The  sign of Jonas is the most remarkable foreshadowing in the O.T. of the resurrection of our Lord. It was of course impossible that His resurrection should be represented by an actual resurrection, as his birth was by births (Isaac, Samson, Samuel, Mahershalalhashbaz), and His death by deaths (Abel; the substitute for Isaac; Zechariah the prophet; the daily and occasional sacrifices); so that we find the events symbolic of his resurrection (Joseph’s history; Isaac’s sacrifice; Daniel’s and Jonah’s deliverance), representing it in a figure (Hebrews 11:19 , ἐν παραβολῇ ). In the case before us the figure was very remarkable, and easily to be recognized in the O.T. narrative. For Jonah himself calls the belly of the sea monster בֶּטֶן שְׁאוֹל ( Jon 2:2 ), ‘the belly of Hades,’ = καρδίᾳ τῆς γῆς here. And observe, that the type is not of our Lord’s  body being deposited in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, for neither could that be called ‘the heart of the earth,’ nor could it be said that ‘the Son of Man’ was there during the time; but of our Lord’s  personal descent into the place of departed souls: see Ephesians 4:9 ; 1 Peter 3:19 , and note on Luke 23:43 .