 31, 32. ]  διὰ τοῦτο  , because this is the case: see last note. Notice again the  λέγω ὑμῖν  , used by our Lord when He makes some revelation of things hidden from the sons of men: see ch. Matthew 6:29 ; Matthew 18:10 ; Matthew 18:19 : and Mat 12:36 below. The distinction in these much-controverted verses seems to be, between (1) the sin and blasphemy which arises from culpable ignorance and sensual blindness, as that of the fool who said in his heart ‘There is no God,’ of those who, e.g. Saul of Tarsus, opposed Jesus as not being the Christ; which persons, to whatever degree their sin may unhappily advance, are capable of enlightenment, repentance, and pardon: and (2) the blasphemy of those who, acknowledging God, and seeing his present power working by His Holy Spirit,  openly oppose themselves to it, as did, or as were very near doing (for our Lord does not actually imply that they  had incurred this dreadful charge), these Pharisees. They may as yet have been under the veil of ignorance; but this their last proceeding, in the sight of Him who knows the hearts, approximated very near to, or perhaps reached, this awful degree of guilt. The principal misunderstanding of this passage has arisen from the prejudice which possesses men’s minds owing to the use of the words, ‘the  sin against the Holy Ghost.’ It is not a particular species of sin which is here condemned, but a definite act shewing a  state of sin, and that state a wilful determined opposition to the present power of the Holy Spirit; and this as shewn by its fruit, βλασφημία . The declaration, in substance, often occurs in the N.T. See 1 John 5:16 , and note on ἁμαρτία there: 2 Timothy 3:8 ; Jude 1:4 ; Jude 1:12-13 ; Hebrews 10:26-31 ; Hebrews 6:4-8 . Euthymius expands the sense well and clearly: ὃς μὲν ἂν ἁμάρτῃ κατὰ τῆς ἀνθρωπότητός μου , φησί , τουτέστιν , ὅστις ἂν εἴπῃ βλάσφημον λόγον κατ ʼ αὐτῆς , … ὁ τοιοῦτος συγγνωσθήσεται πάντως ὡς οὐκ ἐθελοκακήσας , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν ἀγνοίᾳ τῆς ἀληθείας βλασφημήσας · ὁ δὲ βλέπων τὰς θεοπρεπεῖς μου ἐνεργείας , ἃς μόνος δύναται ποιεῖν ὁ θεός , καὶ τῷ Βεελζεβοὺλ ταύτας ἐπιγραφόμενος , ὡς καὶ ὑμεῖς νῦν , καὶ οὕτω βλασφημῶν κατὰ τοῦ πνεύματος τοῦ ἁγίου , ἤτοι κατὰ τῆς θεότητος ( ταύτην γὰρ νῦν καλεῖ  πνεῦμα ἅγιον (?)) οὗτος ὡς ἐθελοκακήσας προδήλως καὶ ἐν γνώσει καθυβρίσας τὸν θεὸν καὶ ἀναπολόγητα πλημμελήσας οὐ συγχωρηθήσεται .
	No  sure inference can be drawn from the words  οὔτε ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι with regard to forgiveness of sins in a future state. Olshausen remarks that a parallel on the other side is found in ch. Matthew 10:41-42 , where the  recognition of divine power in those sent from God is accompanied with promise of eternal reward. He himself however understands the passage (as many others have done) to imply forgiveness on repentance  in the imperfect state of the dead before the judgment, and considers it to be cognate with 1 Peter 3:18 ff. Augustine speaks very strongly, de Civ. Dei xxi. 24, vol. vii.: ‘Neque enim de quibusdam veraciter diceretur, quod non eis remittatur neque in hoc sæculo neque in futuro, nisi essent quibus, etsi non in isto, tamen remittatur in futuro.’ See, on the whole subject, note on 1 Peter 3:18 ff. In the almost entire silence of Scripture on any such doctrine, every principle of sound interpretation requires that we should hesitate to support it by two difficult passages, in neither of which does the plain construction of the words absolutely require it.
	The expressions αἰὼν οὗτος (= ὁ νῦν αἰών , Titus 2:12 ; 2 Timothy 4:10 ; καιρὸς οὗτος , Mark 10:30 ; αἰὼν τοῦ κόσμου τούτου , Ephesians 2:2 ; αἰὼν ἐνεστὼς πονηρός , Gal 1:4 ) and αἰὼν μέλλων (= αἰὼν ὁ ἐρχόμενος , Mark 10:30 ; αἰὼν ἐκεῖνος , Luke 20:35 ; αἰῶνες ἐπερχόμενοι , Eph 2:7 ) were common among the Jews, and generally signified respectively the time before and after the coming of the Messiah. In the N.T. these significations give place to  the present life , and  that to come: the present mixed state of wheat and tares, and the future completion of Messiah’s Kingdom after the great harvest. The expression κόσμος μέλλων is not found. αἰὼν μέλλων , &c., seem to differ from βασιλ . τ . οὐρανῶν or τ . θεοῦ , in never being spoken of, or as in, individuals, but as an age of time belonging to the universal Church.