19. God was in Christ,
	reconciling—that is, God was BY
	Christ (in virtue of Christ's intervention) reconciling,"
	c. Was reconciling" implies the time when the act of
	reconciliation was being carried into effect ( :-), namely, when "God made Jesus, who knew no sin, to be
	sin for us." The compound of "was" and the participle
	"reconciling," instead of the imperfect (Greek), may
	also imply the continuous purpose of God, from before the
	foundation of the world, to reconcile man to Himself, whose fall was
	foreseen. The expression " IN
	Christ" for "by Christ" may be used to imply
	additionally that God was IN
	Christ (John 10:38 John 14:10),
	and so by Christ (the God-man) was reconciling . . . The Greek
	for "by" or "through" Christ (the best
	manuscripts omit "Jesus"), John 14:10- :, is different. "In" must mean here in the
	person of Christ. The Greek Katallasson implies "changing"
	or altering the judicial status from one of condemnation to
	one of justification. The atonement (at-one-ment), or
	reconciliation, is the removal of the bar to peace and
	acceptance with a holy God, which His righteousness interposed
	against our sin. The first step towards restoring peace between us
	and God was on God's side (John 14:10- :). The change therefore now to be effected must
	be on the part of offending man, God the offended One being already
	reconciled. It is man, not God, who now needs to be reconciled, and
	to lay aside his enmity against God (Romans 5:10;
	Romans 5:11). ("We have
	received the atonement" [Greek, reconciliation],
	cannot mean "We have received the laying aside of our own
	enmity"). Compare Romans 3:24;
	Romans 3:25. 
	the world—all men
	(Colossians 1:20; 1 John 2:2).
	The manner of the reconciling is by His "not imputing to
	men their trespasses," but imputing them to Christ the
	Sin-bearer. There is no incongruity that a father should be offended
	with that son whom he loveth, and at that time offended with him when
	he loveth him. So, though God loved men whom He created, yet He was
	offended with them when they sinned, and gave His Son to suffer for
	them, that through that Son's obedience He might be reconciled to
	them (reconcile them to Himself, that is, restore them WITH
	JUSTICE to His favor) [BISHOP
	PEARSON, Exposition of
	the Creed]. 
	hath committed unto us—Greek,
	"hath put into our hands." "Us," that is,
	ministers.