8. therefore—seeing that God
	hath given us such a spirit, not that of fear.
Be not thou . . . ashamed—I
	agree with ELLICOTT, in
	opposition to ALFORD, that
	the Greek subjunctive here, with the negative, implies action
	completed at one time, not continued action, which the
	present imperative would express; thus implying that Timothy had not
	decidedly yet evinced such feeling of shame; though I
	think, Paul, amidst the desertion of others who once promised fair,
	and from being aware of Timothy's constitutional timidity (see
	on 2 Timothy 1:7), felt it necessary
	to stir him up and guard him against the possibility of unchristian
	dereliction of duty as to bold confession of Christ. Shame
	(2 Timothy 1:8) is the companion of
	fear (2 Timothy 1:7); if fear
	be overcome, false shame flees [BENGEL].
	Paul himself (2 Timothy 1:12), and
	Onesiphorus (2 Timothy 1:16), were
	instances of fearless profession removing false shame. He presents in
	contrast sad instances of fear and shame (2 Timothy 1:16- :). 
	of the testimony of our
	Lord—of the testimony which thou art bound to give in
	the cause of our Lord; he says "our," to connect
	Timothy and himself together in the testimony which both should give
	for their common Lord. The testimony which Christ gave before
	Pilate (1 Timothy 6:12; 1 Timothy 6:13),
	is an incentive to the believer that he should, after His Lord's
	example, witness a good testimony or confession.
nor of me his prisoner—The
	cause of God's servants is the cause of God Himself (1 Timothy 6:13- :). Timothy might easily be tempted to be ashamed of one in
	prison, especially as not only worldly shame, but great risk,
	attended any recognition of Paul the prisoner. 
	be thou partaker—with
	me.
of the gospel—rather,
	as Greek, "for the Gospel," that is, suffered
	for the Gospel (2 Timothy 2:3-5;
	Philemon 1:13). 
	according to the power of
	God—exhibited in having saved and called us (Philemon 1:13- :). God who has done the greater act of power (that is, saved
	us), will surely do the less (carry us safe through afflictions
	borne for the Gospel). "Think not that thou hast to bear
	these afflictions by thine own power; nay, it is by the power of God.
	It was a greater exercise of power than His making the heaven, His
	persuading the world to embrace salvation" [CHRYSOSTOM].