 21 .]  Which (viz. ὕδωρ : not βάπτισμα , which does not come in till the end of the clause: nor, the whole fact announced in 1 Peter 3:20 . The construction is somewhat involved by the close connexion of the thing signifying and the thing signified. The ὕδωρ to which  ὅ refers is not, as Huther, al., the water of Noah’s flood, but water, generally, the common term between the type and antitype)  the antitype (  of that ) (  ἀντίτυπον , adj. antitypal: the corresponding particular in both cases: the word does not contain in itself any solution of the question which of the two, the τύπος or that which is ἀντίτυπον to it, is the original: in ref., from the context, the τύπος is the primitive, the ἀντίτυπον the representative: here, from the context, it is vice versa: this need not however be expressed, but left to be understood)  is now saving (pres., the rescue not being as yet fully accomplished. We are as yet διασωζόμενοι δι ʼ ὕδατος )  you also (as well as them. Then this assertion having been made, follows the parenthetical explanation, that the method of saving in the ἀντίτυπον is not material, as in the type),  even baptism (not,  the water of baptism: the parenthesis following is a kind of protest against such a rendering: but, water, in the form of baptism, become to us baptism.  Water is the common term: water saves in both cases. It saved them, becoming to them a means of floating their ark and bearing them harmless: it saves us, becoming to us baptism: and that baptism not material, but spiritual);  not putting away of the filth of the flesh (  σαρκός , placed first for emphasis, see Winer, § 30. 3, Remark 4. b; removing the baptism spoken of altogether out of the realm of carnal washings: q. d. “not fleshly putting away of filth.” σαρκός cannot be the gen. subj. as Bengel, ‘carni adscribitur depositio sordium:” it is the gen. possessive governed by ῥύπου . It is possible that the Apostle may have special reference to the unavailing nature of the Jewish washings, as Justin Martyr, Tryph. § 14, p. 114, τί γὰρ ὄφελος ἐκείνου τοῦ βαπτίσματος ὃ τὴν σάρκα καὶ μόνον τὸ σῶμα φαιδρύνει ; βαπτίσθητε τὴν ψυχήν ),  but enquiry of a good conscience after God (i. e. the seeking after God in a good and pure conscience, which is the aim and end of the Christian baptismal life. This is the sense of  ἐπερωτᾶν εἰς , in the only place where it occurs in Scripture, viz. 2Ki 11:7 LXX, καὶ ἐπηρώτησεν Δαυὶδ εἰς εἰρήνην Ἰωάβ , καὶ εἰς εἰρήνην τοῦ λαοῦ , καὶ εἰς εἰρήνην τοῦ πολέμον . On this view,  συνειδ  .   ἀγ  . is gen. subj., the enquiry which a good conscience makes. Very various have been the interpretations. Œc. goes wrong, in saying συνειδήσεως ἀγαθῆς τῆς εἰς θεόν , ἤτοι κατὰ θεόν : for εἰς θεόν must by the requirement of the sentence be joined to ἐπερώτημα . His explanation of ἐπερώτημα is ἀῤῥαβών , ἐνέχυρον , ἀπόδειξις . This is taking the juristic sense of ἐπερώτημα , which prevailed in Byzantine Greek, of a stipulation or  contract . And so in the main, Aretius, al., and recently De Wette and Huther understand the word of the  questions asked in baptism , ἀποτάσσῃ τῷ Σατανᾷ ; ἀποτάσσομαι · συντάσσῃ τῷ χριστῷ ; συντάσσομαι : and make συνειδ . ἀγ . a gen. object.,  pledge of a good conscience , i. e. to maintain a good conscience. But there does not appear to be any justification in Scripture, or in the usage of the time, of this sense of the word ἐπερώτημα : and  εἰς θεόν would hardly occur in this sense: we have in the similar case of διαθήκη , oftenest a dative following ( 2Ki 5:3 ), then πρός ( 2Ki 3:13 ), μετά ( 2Ki 3:12 ), ἀνὰ μέσον (3 Kings 1Pe 5:12 ); but never εἰς . Again, many understand, the  request of a good conscience: so Bengel. “Salvat ergo nos rogatio bonæ conscientiæ, i. e. rogatio qua nos Deum compellamus cum bona conscientia, peccatis remissis et depositis, cf. 1 Peter 3:16 , et Hebrews 10:22 . Hæc rogatio in baptismo datur et in omnibus fidei, precum, vitæque christianæ actibus exercetur.” This same meaning of ἐπερώτημα is taken in the main by Wiesinger, making however συνειδ . a gen. object., “  prayer (or, desire)  to God for a good conscience :” so also Seb. Schmidt, Hofmann, Weiss. The objection to all these is, that they do not justify the expression as applied to the saving force of baptism: as indeed neither entirely does the meaning which I have given above: but where  all explanations were unsatisfactory, I thought it best to adopt one which strictly keeps to the Scripture usage of the words, being at the same time full as good as any of the others in its contextual application),  by means of the resurrection of Jesus Christ (with what are these words to be joined? Grot., with others, connects them with the immediately preceding: “hæc bonæ conscientiæ sponsio venit ex fide de resurrectione Christi.” So also Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 2, p. 167, saying, “By means of the resurrection of Christ, as the removal of sin once for all for all mankind, it is, that in baptism the prayer for a good conscience is directed to God.” But as Wies. objects, it is surely allotting too insignificant a part to these words, to make them merely assign the method in which the prayer is heard. Most Commentators have joined them with σώζει , regarding the intervening sentence as parenthetical. Thus taken, the words refer back to ζωοποιηθεὶς πνεύματι in 1 Peter 3:18 , conducting on the course of thought with regard to Christ and to ourselves: His resurrection, and entrance into His kingdom, giving us, by Him, a living part in Him, and entrance also into His kingdom by means of His appointed sacrament of Holy Baptism, spiritually received. Steiger endeavours to combine both connexions, but this evidently cannot be):