 1 .]  In like manner (i. e. after the same general principle, enounced in ch. 1 Peter 2:13 , as the οἰκέται in  their relation)  wives (  γυν ., as οἱ οἰκέται , ch. 1 Peter 2:18 , οἱ ἄνδρες , 1 Peter 3:7 , is vocative. This is decisively shewn by ὑμῶν below, as in 1 Peter 3:7 . By the context  γυναῖκες is shewn to be  wives ) [  by being ]  in subjection to (the participle, as in ch. 1 Peter 2:18 ; carrying on the general πάντας τιμήσατε )  your own husbands (  ἰδίοις gives point to the obligation, but is without any distinctive emphasis: see the parallel place, Ephesians 5:22 , and note),  that even if (  καὶ εἰ puts into climax the hypothesis: εἰ καί , only that which follows the καί , i. e. the fact assumed: see for the full elucidation of this, 1Co 7:21 note, and Winer, § 53. 7, Hermann on Viger, p. 832, Klotz, Devar. ii. 519 f., Hartung i. p. 139; the views of Hermann and Klotz differing slightly from the above and Hartung, but coming to the same in the end. In this place, as De Wette remarks,  καὶ εἰ assumes as possible, the apparently exceptional case which may seem to justify the wives’ disobedience: εἰ καί would concede that the fact was so and direct notice to the fact itself)  any (husbands)  are disobedient to the word (in a state of unbelieving disobedience; most probably, though this is not directly nor necessarily assumed, heathens),  they shall be won (see reff.: converted to faith and obedience: made a gain for Christian love, and for Christ Himself. Cf. Leighton: “A soul converted is gained to itself, gained to the pastor, or friend, or wife, or husband who sought it, and gained to Jesus Christ: added to His treasury, who thought not His own precious blood too dear to lay out for this gain.” On  ἵνα with an indic. fut., see Winer, § 41.  b. 1. b: and cf. reff.)  without word (without the wives preaching to them, or exhorting them, but simply by your Christian behaviour. The grammarians call this way of speaking, in which a word ( λόγου ) is intentionally used in two different senses in the same sentence,  antanaclasis . The other rendering, ‘  without the word ,’ is not indeed, as Wiesinger, precluded by the absence of the article, for λόγου ,  indefinite , might just as well, with the exclusive preposition ἄνευ , refer to the Gospel, but on account of the general improbability of such a saying, seeing that faith is grounded on hearing, and hearing on the word of God. Besides which, the wives’ conversation, being a shewing forth of obedience to the word, could not be said to produce its effect ἄνευ ( τοῦ ) λόγου . Œc. proposes a curious alternative rendering: ἄνευ λόγου , ἤτοι σχολάζοντος παντὸς λόγου καὶ πάσης ἀντιλογίας ἢ (then follows the interpretation as given above, but very well put) ὡς τῆς διὰ τῶν ἔργων ἐπιδείξεως κυριωτέρας οὔσης τῆς διὰ τῶν λόγων περιεργίας . ἄφωνον γὰρ ἔργον κρεῖσσον ἀπράκτου λόγου )  by means of the behaviour of their wives ,