 10 .]  For (  the above exhortations are impressed by a citation from Psalms 34:0 (33 LXX) 13 17. That the citation cannot, as De Wette maintains, apply directly to the last written words, is plain, by the verb  κληρονομήσητε , necessarily referring to the future life, whereas the blessings promised in the Psalm as necessarily refer to the present. So that we must connect the citation mainly with the εὐλογοῦντες , and if we take in the intermediate clause, it must be only secondarily, as connecting, generally, blessing with blessing)  he who desireth to love life (the citation is curiously divergent from the LXX, and very difficult to understand. The LXX have, τίς ἐστιν ἄνθρωπος ὁ θέλων ζωήν , ἀγαπῶν ἡμέρας ἰδεῖν ἀγαθάς ; Here all is plain: whereas θέλων ζωὴν ἀγαπᾷν is hardly intelligible. Commentators have endeavoured to make it so by introducing some foreign idea into one or other of the verbs: thus the ‘glossa interlinearis,’ De Wette, al., “qui vult ostenders, se dilectionem habere:” Bengel and Steiger, “qui vult ita vivere, ut ipsum non tædeat vitæ.” Huther, understanding ζωή of the future life, “He that will love life,” seeing that the love of life, in this sense, is dependent on a certain moral relation of man and is impossible without love. But if we are to take the words as they stand, and not rather regard them as another way of expressing the same as in the Psalm, it may well be, “He that loves life and wishes to continue to do so”)  and to see (reff.)  good days, let him refrain (the LXX proceed in the 2nd person, παῦσον .… σου .
	The word itself, like the English one “refrain,” implies a natural tendency towards that from which the abstention is to take place)  his tongue (“primum notat, quæ linguæ vitia cavenda sint, nempe ne contumeliosi ac petulantes simus: deinde ne fraudulenti ac duplices. Hinc ad facta descendit, ne quem lædamus, vel ne cui inferamus damnum.” Calv.)  from evil, and lips, that they never speak (aor. referring to single occasions, or, better perhaps, to the whole life considered as one fact)  deceit (i. e. speak one thing and mean another):