 15 .]  nay rather (the sharply adversative  δέ , see above on ch. 1Pe 2:23 )  sanctify (reff.)  in your hearts (in the O. T. passage it is added, καὶ αὐτὸς ἔσται σου φόβος . “This addition is not made here, but ἐν ταῖς καρδ . ὑμῶν , to bring out that the ἁγιάσατε must be perfected in the inner parts of a man and so keep him from all false fear. As if he would say, Care only for this, that your heart may be a temple of Christ, in which becoming honour may be given to Him as Lord; then will nothing further disturb you: you have in Him all that you can need.” Wiesinger)  Christ as Lord (  κύριον is emphatically placed forward as predicate; and the expression τὸν κύριον τῶν δυνάμεων αὐτόν (LXX-F., not A) changed in a Christian sense into κύριον δὲ τὸν χριστόν ): [  but (so far from being afraid of men, be ever ready to give them a gentle and reverent answer when they enquire of your hope)], (  being ) (the same adjectival sentences as before)  ready always for (  ἑτοιμ  .   πρός , ref. [i. e. to give])  an answer (an apologetic justification, in the primitive Christian sense. This was most commonly given before official persons and on trial, but in the present case is expressly extended to every person and occasion)  to every man (  παντί , dat. aft. ἀπολογίαν , as in ref. 1 Cor.)  that asketh of you a reason (a reasonable account)  concerning the hope [  that is ]  in you (  ἐλπίς , not as Calvin = πίστις (“  spes hic per synecdochen pro fide capitur”), but as Luth.: “in persecutione oportet nos habere spem: si ratio spei exigitur, oportet nos habere verbum.” And Bengel: “spes christianorum sæpe commovit alios ad percontandum”),  but (  ἀλλά makes a contrast to the ἑτοιμότης ready, but not over ready: see Luther, below)  with meekness (see above on 1Pe 3:4 )  and fear (another antanaclasis, after μὴ φοβηθῆτε φόβον above. This fear is not the fear of God exclusively, nor that of men, but the aspect of the mind as regards both: proper respect for man, and humble reverence of God. The case supposed would generally occur when some one invested with authority asked a reason: and the complexion of the answer to be given is taken from that circumstance. On the injunction, Luther says, speaking from his own experience at Worms and elsewhere, “Then must ye not answer with proud words and bring out the matter with a defiance and with violence as if ye would tear up trees, but with such fear and lowliness as if ye stood before God’s tribunal.… so must thou stand in fear, and not rest on thine own strength, but on the word and promise of Christ,” Matthew 10:19 f. (in Wiesinger)):