 18 .]  because (not ‘for:’ it does not only render  a reason , but lays down  the reason why Christian suffering for well-doing is blessed)  Christ also (as well as yourselves if ye be so called as to suffer)  suffered for sins (the thought is somewhat similar to that in ch. 1 Peter 2:21 , but the intent of it different: there, it was as an example  to us that the sufferings of Christ were adduced: here, it is as a proof of the blessedness and advantage of suffering for well-doing, that proof being closely applied to us by the fact that that suffering was undertaken on our behalf, and that blessedness is our salvation.  περὶ ἁμαρτιῶν I distinctly hold, with Wiesinger, to come in, as a point of comparison between Christ and ourselves, under the καί , against most Commentators, among whom are De Wette and Huther. Considering St. Peter’s love of antanaclasis (using the same term in two meanings), of which we have already had several examples, e. g. 1 Peter 3:9 ; 1 Peter 3:14-15 , I have no hesitation in applying the παθεῖν περὶ ἁμαρτιῶν the one time to Christ, the other to ourselves, though His suffering for sin, and ours, are two very different things. He, the sinless One, suffered περὶ ἁμαρτιῶν , for sins; as a sacrifice for sin, as a sinner, made sin for us, dying the death of a criminal: we, though not sinless, yet ἀγαθοποιοῦντες , are to suffer if God’s will so will it, περὶ ἁμαρτιῶν , for sins which we are supposed to have committed, and as sinners. To miss this, is to miss one of the cardinal points of the comparison)  once (“from this  ἅπαξ , through the καί ,” as has been beautifully said (Besser, in Wies.), “a beam of comforting light falls on the sufferings of Christians.” He suffered  once : His sufferings are summed up and passed away: He shall suffer no more. And we are suffering ἅπαξ : it shall be soon so thought of and looked back upon. For this reason doubtless, and not as Œc. to shew τὸ τοῦ παθόντος δραστήριόν τε καὶ δυνατόν , nor as Pott, al., to contrast the sufferings of Christ as in Hebrews 10:1-2 , with the often-repeated sacrifices of the O. T., is ἅπαξ inserted),  a just person (  δίκαιος is purely predicative: not as E. V. ‘the just,’ which again loses the point of comparison)  on behalf of unjust persons (this again, though the resembling tints are beginning somewhat to fade off, is another point of comparison: He suffered, just, righteous, ὑπὲρ ἀδίκων : He represented, He was offered for, the unjust, the unrighteous: and so we in our turn, though in a far less deep and proper meaning, when we, being δίκαιοι ( 1Pe 3:12 ), suffer as ἄδικοι , though not in any propitiatory sense ὑπὲρ ἀδίκων . We have similar uncertainty and play of meaning where the same subject is treated Romans 6:10-11 , τῇ ἁμαρτίᾳ ἀπέθανεν … ζῇ τῷ θεῷ , οὕτως καὶ ὑμεῖς λογίζεσθε ἑαυτοὺς νεκροὺς μὲν εἶναι τῇ ἁμαρτίᾳ , ζῶντας δὲ τῷ θεῷ : where the two expressions, though they have a common meaning of small extent, are in their widest and most important references of necessity widely divergent),  that (with this  ἵνα we leave the comparison, as far as suffering is concerned, returning to it presently for a moment with the θανατωθείς , and pass up to the μακαριότης of His innocent suffering, and to that which makes it so glorious and precious to us, as the ground of all our blessedness in suffering)  He might bring us near to God (“ut nos, qui abalienati fueramus, ipse abiens ad Patrem, secum una, justificatos adduceret in cœlum, 1 Peter 3:22 , per eosdem gradus quos ipse emensus est, exinanitionis et exaltationis. Ex hoc verbo Petrus, usque ad cap. 1 Peter 4:6 , penitus connectit Christi et fidelium iter sive processum (quo etiam ipse  sequebatur Dominum, ex ejus prædictione, Joh 13:36 ) infidelitatem multorum et pœnam innectens.” Bengel: who also remarks on  τῷ θεῷ , “Deo id volenti. Plus notatur per dativum quam si diceretur  ad Deum ”),  put to death (this participial clause conditions the ἵνα προσαγάγῃ , giving the manner of that bringing us near to God)  indeed in the flesh (of this there can be no doubt, and in this assertion there is no difficulty.  σαρκί is adverbial; it was thus, in this region, under these conditions, that the death on the cross was inflicted: His flesh, which was living flesh before, became dead flesh: Christ Jesus, the entire complex Person, consisting of body, soul, and spirit, was put to death σαρκί ),  but made alive (  again )  in the spirit (here there may seem to be difficulty: but the difficulty will vanish, if we guide ourselves simply and carefully by the former clause. ‘Quod ad carnem,’ the Lord was put to death: ‘quod ad spiritum,’ He was brought to life (for this, and not “remained alive,” must be insisted on as the meaning of ἐζωοποιήθη ). His flesh was the subject, recipient, vehicle, of inflicted death: His spirit was the subject, recipient, vehicle, of restored life. But here let us beware, and proceed cautiously. What is asserted is not that the  flesh died and the Spirit was  made alive ; but that ‘quoad’ the flesh the Lord died, ‘quoad’ the Spirit He was made alive. He, the God-man Christ Jesus, body and soul, ceased to live in the flesh, began to live in the Spirit; ceased to live a fleshly mortal life, began to live a spiritual resurrection life. His own Spirit never died, as the next verse shews us. “This is the meaning, that Christ by His sufferings was taken from the life which is flesh and blood, as a man on earth, living, walking, and standing in flesh and blood … and He is now placed in another life and made alive according to the Spirit, has passed into a spiritual and supernatural life, which includes in itself the whole life which Christ now has in soul and body, so that He has no longer a fleshly but a spiritual body.” Luther. And Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 336, says, “It is the same who dies and the same who is again made alive, both times the whole Man Jesus, in body and soul. He ceases to live, in that  that , which is to His Personality the medium of action, falls under death; and He begins again to live, in that He receives back this same for a medium of His action again. The life which fell under death was a fleshly life, that is, such a life as has its determination to the present condition of man’s nature, to the externality of its mundane connexion. The life which was won back is a spiritual life, that is, such a life as has its determination from the Spirit, in which consists our inner connexion with God.” It is impossible, throughout this difficult and most important passage, to report all the various shades of difference of opinion which even the greater expositors have given us. I shall indicate only those which are necessary to be mentioned as meanings to be distinguished from that which I advocate, or as errors likely to fall constantly under the eye of my readers. Of this latter class is the rendering of the E. V. here, “  by the Spirit ,” which is wrong both grammatically and theologically: the explanation of Œc., Calov., al., τουτέστιν ἀναστὰς ἐκ νεκρῶν τῇ τῆς θεότητος δυνάμει : ἀνέστη γὰρ ἐκ νεκρῶν οὐχ ὡς ἄνθρωπος , ἀλλ ʼ ὡς θεός : and that of Grot. that πνευματι = ἐκ δυνάμεως θεοῦ , 2Co 13:4 ):