 20 .]  which were once disobedient (this clause is a secondary and dependent one, descriptive of the spirits intended: that they were those of men who were formerly disobedient)  when (  ὅτε marks distinctively the time intended by the ποτέ )  the longsuffering of God was waiting (and this marks the period of their disobedience, viz. those 120 years of Genesis 6:3 .  ἀπ εξεδέχετο , imperf.: the  ἀπ  - betokening the full time during which it was exercised. “Exspectabat donec exspectandi finis erat.” Beng.)  in the days of Noah while the ark (  κιβωτοῦ anarthrous as the well-known name for the ark in the LXX)  was being prepared, in which (pregn. constr., “by having entered into which:” not “into which,” see below)  a few persons, that is eight souls (individuals:  ψυχαί , as being in the body: the distinction may be noted here, but is not always kept: the disembodied are ψυχαί in Revelation 6:9 ; Rev 20:4 )  were saved (from drowning)  by water (not, “into which a few, &c. got safe through the water,” which was not the fact. The water is in the Apostle’s view the  medium of saving , inasmuch as it bore up the ark: cf. the next verse: or it may be, and so Bengel, Steiger, De Wette, Huther, “through (the) water”). So much for the exegesis of the detail of this passage; from which it will be seen that we have regarded it, in common with the majority of Commentators, as necessarily pointing to an event in our Lord’s redemptive agency which happened, as regards time, in the order of the context here: and that that event was, His going (whether between His death and resurrection, or after the latter, will be presently discussed) to the place of custody of departed spirits, and there preaching to those spirits, which were formerly disobedient when God’s longsuffering waited in the days of Noah. Thus far I conceive our passage stands committed: and I do not believe it possible to make it say less, or other, than this. What was the intent of that preaching, and what its effect is not here revealed; the fact merely is stated. The statement of the fact, however, has been felt to be accompanied by such great difficulties, that other meanings have been sought for the passage than that which the words present at first sight. Expositors have endeavoured to remove the idea that the gospel was preached to the dead in Hades, either, 1. by denying the reference to our Lord’s descent thither at all, or, 2. by admitting that, but supposing it to have had another purpose. I give, following the classification in Huther’s note, an account of the principal upholders of these views. Under I., I place all those who deny any reference to Christ’s descent into Hades, distinguishing the minor differences between them as to what κήρυγμα is there indicated.
	I. 1. Augustine, Bed [12] , Thos. Aquinas, Lyra, Hammond, Beza, Scaliger, Leighton, Horneius, Gerhard, al., and recently Hofmann, Schriftbeweis ii. 1. 335 341, maintain that the κήρυγμα was the preaching of righteousness  by Noah to his contemporaries : that Noah thus preached not of himself, but by virtue of the Spirit of Christ inspiring him; and that thus his preaching was in fact a preaching by Christ in the Spirit. So, e. g. Augustine, Ep. 164 (99), vol. ii., suggests, that the “spiritus conclusi in carcere” may be “animæ quæ tunc erant in carne, atque ignorantiæ tenebris velut carcere claudebantur.” Also that Christ had not indeed come in the flesh, but from the beginning of the race came from time to time to convict the evil, to console the good, or to admonish both. For this He came not in flesh, but in spirit, i. e. in substantia Deitatis. But he qualifies this by asking, “Quid facit Filius sine Spiritu Sancto, vel sine Patre, cum inseparabilia sint omnia opera Trinitatis?” But this arbitrary interpretation of φυλακή = “caro, et ignorantiæ tenebræ,” is not common to all the supporters of this view. Beza represents a large class: “Christus.… jam olim in diebus Noe.… prædicavit spiritibus illis, qui  nunc in carcere meritas dant pœnas, utpote qui recta monenti Noe.… parere olim recusarint.” Thus Scaliger, Horneius, al.: and Hofmann, except that he joins ποτέ with πορευθεὶς ἐκήρυξεν , not with ἀπειθήσασιν . It must be evident to every unprejudiced scholar, how alien such an interpretation is from the plain meaning and connexion of the words and clauses. Not a word is indicated by St. Peter on the very far-off lying allusion to the fact that the Spirit of Christ preached in Noah: not a word, here, on the fact that Noah himself preached to his contemporaries. Again, the same subject  χριστός runs through the whole, without a hint, that we are dealing with historical matter of fact in ἔπαθεν , θανατωθείς , ζωοποιηθείς , and with recondite figure in πορευθεὶς ἐκήρυξεν . Again, whether we take the metaphorical φυλακή of Aug [13] , which I suppose will find hardly any advocates, or the τοῖς  νῦν ἐν φυλακῇ of Beza, al., it cannot surely be doubted that we are equally putting force on the Apostle’s words, and that the τοῖς ἐν φυλακῇ πνεύμασιν must describe the local condition of the πνεύματα  at the time when the preaching took place . Moreover πορευθείς , as compared with 1 Peter 3:22 (which Hofmann gets most lamely over, by saying that it presents no greater difficulty than the statement that Christ accompanied the Israelites through the wilderness in 1 Corinthians 10:4 ; to which we may answer, If this were a plain statement involving such an application of the word, we might then discuss the intelligibility of it) the part. ἀπειθήσασιν , marked off by the ποτέ as not belonging to the same time as the ἐκήρυξεν (which Hofmann shews he feels, by his impracticable attempt to connect ποτέ with ἐκήρυξεν ), shew, as plainly as words can shew, that we are reading of some act of Christ which He  then, at the time described, went and did, with reference to spirits who were, at some other time ( ποτέ )  specified ( ὅτε ),  in a certain state ( ἀπειθήσασι ). And, which has not been sufficiently noticed, a crowning objection to this view is the use of the word πνεύμασιν , connecting ἐν ᾧ ( πνεύματι ) our Lord’s state, with the state of those to whom He preached: a word only used of men when departed out of this life (ref.).
	 [12] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [13]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	I. 2. Several Commentators, principally Socinian, but also Vorst., Grot., Schöttgen, al., understand by τὰ ἐν φυλ . πν . either the Gentiles, or the Jews (“sub jugo legis existentes”) and Gentiles (“sub potestate diaboli jacentes:” so in both cases, Schöttg. and Amelius) together, and by ἐκήρυξεν the preaching of the Spirit of Christ by the Apostles. These expositors take the mention of the disobedient in Noah’s time to be merely by way of sample of the disobedient in all time, or, at least, in the time when the Apostle was writing. So Grot.: “adjungere voluit Petrus similitudinem a temporibus Noe, ut ostendat quanto res nunc melius per Christum quam tunc per Noen processerit.” As Huther well says, “How this interpretation heaps on caprice upon caprice, need not be shewn.” I will add, that its fautors do not appear to attempt to justify it philologically, as indeed it is plain they cannot. Every word of every clause protests against it.
	II. We now come to those who understand the passage of our Lord’s descent into Hades, but, offended by the idea of the possibility of salvation being opened to spirits of the disobedient kept awaiting judgment, diverge from one another and from the ‘prima facie’ explanation.
	II. 1. Flacius, Calov., Buddæus, Wolf, Aretius, al., understand τὰ ἐν φηλ . πν . of souls awaiting condemnation, but explain ἐκήρυξεν of announcing, not salvation, but condemnation. So Hollaz (in Huther), “fuit prædicatio Christi in inferno non evangelica, quæ hominibus tantum in regno gratiæ annunciatur, sed legalis, elenchtica, terribilis, eaque turn verbalis, qua ipsos æterna supplicia promeritos esse convincit, tum realis, qua inimanem terrorem iis incussit.” But, besides that κηρύσσειν , as remarked above, has, as applied to Christ and His Apostles, but the one meaning of preaching the good tidings of salvation, besides the utter superfluity of such a ‘concio damnatoria’ to spirits already reserved to damnation, what a context would such a meaning give, in the midst of a passage intended to convey consolation and encouragement by the blessed consequences of Christ’s sufferings! See this well insisted on in Wiesinger’s careful discussion of the opinions on our passage, p. 241.
	II. 2. Some of the Fathers, as Iren. (iv. 27. 2, p. 264; v. 31. 1, p. 331; al.; see Stieren’s Index, p. 1017), Tertullian, Hippolytus, the Schoolmen, Zwingle, Calvin, al., explain ἐκήρυξεν rightly, of announcing salvation, but regard τὰ ἐν φυλ . πνεύματα as the spirits of the  just , especially of the O. T. saints. The most extraordinary instance of this class of interpreters is Calvin, who explains φυλακή to mean “specula, sive ipse excubandi actus:” and the spirits in φυλακή are, according to him, those which were in waiting for Christ’s salvation: “piæ animæ in spem salutis promissæ intentæ, quasi eminus eam considerarent.” Then he proceeds, “Postquam dixit, Christum se mortuis manifestasse, mox addit:  quum increduli fuissent olim ; quo significat, nihil nocuisse sanctis patribus quod impiorum multitudine pæne obruti fuerint:” and regards this consideration as one calculated to console the believers, few as they were in the midst of the ungodly world. And having thus interpreted, he ingenuously confesses, “Discrepat, fateor, ab hoc sensu Græca syntaxis; debuerat enim Petrus, si hoc vellet, genitivum absolutum ponere. Sed quia apostolis novum non est liberius casum unum ponere alterius loco, et videmus Petrum hic confuse multas res simul coacervare, nec vero aliter aptus sensus elici poterat: non dubitavi ita resolvere orationem implicitam, quo intelligerent lectores, alios vocari incredulos, quam quibus prædicatum fuisse evangelium dixit.” A sentence to be well remembered for many reasons.
	II. 3. Suarez, Estius, Bellarmine, Luther (on Hosea 4:2 , anno 1545, quoted in Bengel), Peter Martyr, Bengel, al., assume that the words refer, not to all the unbelievers of Noah’s time, but only to those who repented at the last moment when the flood was upon them. “Probabile est,” says Bengel, “nonnullos ex tanta multitudine, veniente pluvia, resipuisse: cumque non credidissent dum exspectaret Deus, postea cum arca structa esset et pœna ingrueret, credere cœpisse: quibus postea Christus, eorumque similibus, se præconem gratiæ præstiterit.”
	II. 4. Athanasius, Ambrose, Erasmus, Calvin (Instit. 2:16. 9), hold both kinds of prædication, the ‘evangelica’ to the spirits of the just, the ‘damnatoria’ to those of the disobedient.
	One or two singular interpretations do not fall under any of the above classes: e. g. Marcion maintained that the preaching of Christ was to those whom the O. T. calls ungodly, but who were in reality better than the O. T. saints; Clem.-alex. (Strom. vi. 6, p. 762 P.), that they were the δίκαιοι κατὰ φιλοσοφίαν , who were nevertheless imprisoned under idolatry.
	It remains that we should enquire, whether this preaching to the imprisoned spirits by our Lord, took place between His death and His resurrection, or after the latter. The answer will very much depend on the sense which we give to  ἐν ᾧ . The argument which Wiesinger so much insists on, that the clauses must come in chronological sequence, will not determine for us; because ἐν ᾧ καὶ .… might very well be a taking up again of πνεύματι , recapitulating some former act also done in the Spirit: qu. d. “put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit, that Spirit in which also, ere He was made alive with the full resurrection life, He” &c. And this I incline to think the sense of the passage: ἐν ᾧ referring not to the complex resurrection life, but properly and strictly to the Spirit, in which the Lord never ceased to be, even when His complex life of body and soul was dissolved. And Wiesinger is in fact assuming too much, when he says that “Christ ζωοποιηθεὶς πνεύματι ” is the subject of the sentence: that subject is simply χριστός from 1 Peter 3:18 , of whatever period we understand this act. When again Wiesinger says that πορευθ . ἐκήρυξεν cannot be understood of the time intermediate, because in no case can we think of our Lord’s state in death in dualistic wise, so that while His body was held by the bands of death, His Spirit should be carrying on the Messianic work, I answer, why not? Surely the reply to the penitent thief implies a πορευθῆναι , and in that πορευθῆναι a joy and triumph sufficient to be the subject of a consoling promise at that terrible moment. And might not the reasoning be turned, with as much propriety? Might not we say that it is impossible to conceive of our Lord during that time as  other than employed in the Spirit in which He continued, not to exist merely, but to live? That, granted that His dying words imply a special delivering of his Spirit into the hands of his Father, and by consequence, a resting of his Spirit in those Hands in the death-state, yet must we not conceive of His Spirit as going thither, where “the righteous souls are in the hand of God?” And if so, who shall place a limit to His power or will to communicate with any departed spirits of whatever character? So that, while I would not say that the conditions of the passage are not satisfied by the supposition that the event happened after the Resurrection, I believe there can be no reason for saying that they are not, on the other hypothesis. And I own, that the ἐν ᾧ καί inclines me to this other. It seems most naturally to be taken as a resumptive explanation of πνεύματι with a view to something ( 1Pe 3:21 ) which is to follow; and the ἐν , capable indeed of being otherwise explained, yet seems to favour this idea, that the Lord was strictly speaking ἐν πνεύματι when that happened which is related.
	From all then which has been said, it will be gathered, that with the great majority of Commentators, ancient and modern, I understand these words to say, that our Lord, in His disembodied state, did go to the place of detention of departed spirits, and did there announce His work of redemption, preach salvation in fact, to the disembodied spirits of those who refused to obey the voice of God when the judgment of the flood was hanging over them. Why these rather than others are mentioned, whether merely as a sample of the like gracious work on others, or for some special reason unimaginable by us, we cannot say. It is ours to deal with the plain words of Scripture, and to accept its revelations as far as vouchsafed to us. And they are vouchsafed to us to the utmost limit of legitimate inference from revealed facts. That inference every intelligent reader will draw from the fact here announced: it is not purgatory, it is not universal restitution; but it is one which throws blessed light on one of the darkest enigmas of the divine justice: the cases where the final doom seems infinitely out of proportion to the lapse which has incurred it. And as we cannot say to what other cases this κήρυγμα may have applied, so it would be presumption in us to limit its occurrence or its efficacy. The reason of mentioning here these sinners, above other sinners, appears to be, their connexion with the type of baptism which follows. If so, who shall say, that the blessed act was confined to them?
	The literature of the foregoing passage is almost a library in itself. The principal Commentators nave given accounts more or less complete, of the history of its interpretation. The most concise and comprehensive is that in De Wette’s Handbuch.