17. to eat—omitted in the
	three oldest manuscripts. 
	the hidden manna—the
	heavenly food of Israel, in contrast to the idol-meats ( :-). A pot of manna was laid up in the holy place "before
	the testimony." The allusion is here to this: probably also to
	the Lord's discourse ( :-). Translate, "the manna which is hidden." As
	the manna hidden in the sanctuary was by divine power preserved from
	corruption, so Christ in His incorruptible body has passed into the
	heavens, and is hidden there until the time of His appearing. Christ
	Himself is the manna "hidden" from the world, but revealed
	to the believer, so that he has already a foretaste of His
	preciousness. Compare as to Christ's own hidden food on earth,
	John 4:32; John 4:34;
	Job 23:12. The full manifestation
	shall be at His coming. Believers are now hidden, even as their meat
	is hidden. As the manna in the sanctuary, unlike the other manna, was
	incorruptible, so the spiritual feast offered to all who reject the
	world's dainties for Christ is everlasting: an incorruptible body and
	life for ever in Christ at the resurrection. 
	white stone . . . new name .
	. . no man knoweth saving he—TRENCH'S
	explanation seems best. White is the color and livery of
	heaven. "New" implies something altogether renewed and
	heavenly. The white stone is a glistening diamond, the Urim borne by
	the high priest within the choschen or breastplate of
	judgment, with the twelve tribes' names on the twelve precious
	stones, next the heart. The word Urim means "light,"
	answering to the color white. None but the high priest knew
	the name written upon it, probably the incommunicable name of God,
	"Jehovah." The high priest consulted it in some divinely
	appointed way to get direction from God when needful. The "new
	name" is Christ's (compare Job 23:12- :, "I will write upon him My new name"): some
	new revelation of Himself which shall hereafter be imparted to His
	people, and which they alone are capable of receiving. The connection
	with the "hidden manna" will thus be clear, as none save
	the high priest had access to the "manna hidden" in the
	sanctuary. Believers, as spiritual priests unto God, shall enjoy the
	heavenly antitypes to the hidden manna and the Urim stone. What they
	had peculiarly to contend against at Pergamos was the temptation to
	idol-meats, and fornication, put in their way by
	Balaamites. As Phinehas was rewarded with "an everlasting
	priesthood" for his zeal against these very sins to which the
	Old Testament Balaam seduced Israel; so the heavenly high priesthood
	is the reward promised here to those zealous against the New
	Testament Balaamites tempting Christ's people to the same sins. 
	receiveth it—namely,
	"the stone"; not "the new name"; see above. The
	"name that no man knew but Christ Himself," He shall
	hereafter reveal to His people.