27. From Psalms 2:8;
	Psalms 2:9. 
	rule—literally, "rule
	as a shepherd." In Psalms 2:9
	it is, "Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron."
	The Septuagint, pointing the Hebrew word differently,
	read as Revelation here. The English Version of Psalms 2:9- : is doubtless right, as the parallel word, "dash in
	pieces," proves. But the Spirit in this case sanctions the
	additional thought as true, that the Lord shall mingle mercy
	to some, with judgment on others; beginning by destroying His
	Antichristian foes, He shall reign in love over the rest. "Christ
	shall rule them with a scepter of iron, to make them capable
	of being ruled with a scepter of gold; severity first, that grace may
	come after" (TRENCH,
	who thinks we ought to translate "SCEPTER"
	for "rod," as in Hebrews 1:8).
	"Shepherd" is used in Hebrews 1:8- :, of hostile rulers; so also in Hebrews 1:8- :. As severity here is the primary thought, "rule as a
	shepherd" seems to me to be used thus: He who would have
	shepherded them with a pastoral rod, shall, because of their hardened
	unbelief, shepherd them with a rod of iron. 
	shall they be broken—So
	one oldest manuscript, Vulgate, Syriac, and Coptic Versions
	read. But two oldest manuscripts, read, "as the vessels of a
	potter are broken to shivers." A potter's vessel
	dashed to pieces, because of its failing to answer the design of
	the maker, is the image to depict God's sovereign power to give
	reprobates to destruction, not by caprice, but in the exercise of His
	righteous judgment. The saints shall be in Christ's victorious
	"armies" when He shall inflict the last decisive blow, and
	afterwards shall reign with Him. Having by faith "overcome the
	world," they shall also rule the world. 
	even as I—"as I
	also have received of (from) My Father," namely, in Hebrews 1:8- :. Jesus had refused to receive the kingdom without the cross
	at Satan's hands; He would receive it from none but the Father, who
	had appointed the cross as the path to the crown. As the Father has
	given the authority to Me over the heathen and uttermost parts of the
	earth, so I impart a share of it to My victorious disciple.