19. Compare Acts 9:27;
	Acts 9:28, wherein Luke, as an
	historian, describes more generally what Paul, the subject of the
	history, himself details more particularly. The history speaks of
	"apostles"; and Paul's mention of a second apostle,
	besides Peter, reconciles the Epistle and the history. At Stephen's
	martyrdom, and the consequent persecution, the other ten apostles,
	agreeably to Christ's directions, seem to have soon (though
	not immediately, Acts 8:14)
	left Jerusalem to preach elsewhere. James remained in charge of the
	mother church, as its bishop. Peter, the apostle of the circumcision,
	was present during Paul's fifteen days' stay; but he, too, presently
	after (Acts 9:32), went on a
	circuit through Judea. 
	James, the Lord's
	brother—This designation, to distinguish him from James the son
	of Zebedee, was appropriate while that apostle was alive. But before
	Paul's second visit to Jerusalem (Galatians 2:1;
	Acts 15:1-4), he had been
	beheaded by Herod (Acts 12:2).
	Accordingly, in the subsequent mention of James here (Galatians 2:9;
	Galatians 2:12), he is not designated
	by this distinctive epithet: a minute, undesigned coincidence, and
	proof of genuineness. James was the Lord's brother, not in our strict
	sense, but in the sense, "cousin," or "kinsman"
	(Matthew 28:10; John 20:17).
	His brethren are never called "sons of Joseph," which they
	would have been had they been the Lord's brothers strictly. However,
	compare Psalms 69:8, "I am an
	alien to my mother's children." In John 7:3;
	John 7:5, the "brethren"
	who believed not in Him may mean His near relations, not
	including the two of His brethren, that is, relatives (James and
	Jude) who were among the Twelve apostles. John 7:5- :, "His brethren," refer to Simon and Joses, and
	others (Matthew 13:55) of His
	kinsmen, who were not apostles. It is not likely there would be two
	pairs of brothers named alike, of such eminence as James and Jude;
	the likelihood is that the apostles James and Jude are also the
	writers of the Epistles, and the brethren of Jesus. James and Joses
	were sons of Alpheus and Mary, sister of the Virgin Mary.