1.  Paul’s Office as Apostle to the Gentiles.
	In view of the great privilege detailed in chap. Ephesians 2:19-22, culminating in Ephesians 2:22, the Apostle begins to speak of his prayer on behalf of the Ephesians. But the mention of himself, as ‘the prisoner of Christ Jesus in behalf of you Gentiles,’ leads to a digression so extended, that it forms a section by itself (Ephesians 3:1-13). In Ephesians 3:14 the petition is introduced with the same phrase (‘for this cause ’). found in Ephesians 3:1. This view of the construction, which accords with the involved character of other parts of the Epistle, is least objectionable. It gives a proper meaning to ‘for this cause,’ and best accounts for the sweep of thought in the chapter. Such a digression is not at all unpauline. Other views: (1.) The Syriac version, followed by commentators from Chrysostom to Meyer, supplies ‘am:’ ‘I Paul am the prisoner of Christ Jesus.’ But this is open to grave objections. It makes ‘ for this cause ’ and ‘in behalf of you’ tautological, disconnects the thoughts of Ephesians 3:1-2 ff., and implies an emphasis on ‘the prisoner,’ etc., which is inconsistent with ‘ if indeed ye have heard.’ (2.) Others find the resumption in Ephesians 3:8 (‘unto me’), but this affords no natural connection of thought, and increases the grammatical difficulty. (3.) A few find the resumption in Ephesians 3:13, which gives undue prominence to a secondary thought.
	The train of thought is natural: He speaks of himself as the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of them (Ephesians 3:1), defines this office as a gift of grace (Ephesians 3:2), for which he was specially fitted by direct revelation (Ephesians 3:3), as his previous language testified (Ephesians 3:4), the contents of the revealed mystery being the universal scope of the gospel (Ephesians 3:5-6), of which he was by gift of grace made a minister (Ephesians 3:7). He then humbly states the greatness of the design of this ministry (Ephesians 3:8-9), reaching even to the enlightenment of the angelic host (Ephesians 3:10), fulfilling God’s purpose in Christ (Ephesians 3:11), in whom we now have free access to God (Ephesians 3:12). Hence tribulations in this cause should not result in fainting, but are a ground of glorying (Ephesians 3:13).
	