Ephesians 3:18.  May be fully able,  or, ‘may be strong enough,’ suggesting difficulty, and the need of exertion.
	 To comprehend. Philippians 3:12-13: ‘apprehend,’ a rendering which is perhaps too weak, since, both here and there, more is meant than an intellectual apprehension, namely, a   spiritual perception and inward experience.
	 With all saints,  the whole body of believers is meant, and it is implied, not only that all saints have this common study, but also that they pursue it in common. Evidently Paul’s petition is applicable to all who believe in Christ
	 What is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height.  Many authorities read: ‘height and depth; but the early scribes might readily have substituted this reading for the less usual one. The discovery of the Sinaitic manuscript leaves the weight of evidence in favor of the received order. The Apostle here sets forth the ‘greatness’ (chap. Ephesians 1:19; Ephesians 1:19) of the object he has in mind, borrowing the terms of mathematical magnitude (  sacra illa Pauli mathematica).  It is not necessary therefore to find a specific reference in each of the terms, still less to accept any one of the many mystical explanations. Whenever any of these are used, the details must be proven from other passages, the choice being largely a matter of individual fancy. The important question is: To what object does the Apostle refer? The simplest answer is: to Chris’s love (Ephesians 3:19), and the connection found in that verse sustains this view. Other explanations: God’s love, the fulness of God, the Church of Christ, the work of redemption, the mystery, the temple of God, God Himself; all of which are less natural than the view given above. Some have even found here an allusion to the temple of Diana.
	The Apostle breaks off, without adding at once the object, to give in what follows a parallel thought which shows what object he has in mind. One specimen of detailed interpretation will suffice. ‘  Breadth  refers to the nations lying beside each other on the earth, over all of whom the love of Christ will extend itself;  length,  to the successive ages during which it will reach;  depth,  to the misery and corruption of sin, into which it will descend;  height,  to the glory at God’s throne and near His heart, to which it could elevate all’ (Braune).
	