Ephesians 3:10.  To the intent that now.  This verse sets forth the purpose of the ‘preaching’ and ‘enlightening’ of Ephesians 3:8-9, or of the giving of this grace to Paul; both views being substantially the same. The objection that thus too much is ascribed to Paul’s own preaching is invalid, since in this extension of the gospel to the Gentiles God’s manifold wisdom has been most fully made known on earth. Some find here the purpose of creation, and others of the hiding of the mystery, and others again join this verse with ‘what is the dispensation’ (it is so planned that now, etc.). The last view is not a   natural one; both the others make a present manifestation the purpose of a past act. To the first there are additional objections: it suggests a supralapsarian view; it joins this verse to a subordinate thought; it is opposed by Colossians 1:16, where the end of creation is distinctly stated to be the personal Christ ‘Now’ is in contrast with ‘from the ages’ (Ephesians 3:9).
	 Unto the principalities and powers in the heavenly places.  The same phrase in chap. Ephesians 6:12 refers to evil angels; but here good angels are   undoubtedly meant; these would more naturally recognize God’s wisdom, and they desire to look into these things (1 Peter 1:12). Hence a reference to earthly powers and authorities is to be rejected, as also the explanation: ‘in heavenly  things.’  By this full designation of the angelic hosts Paul gives prominence to their power and dignity, and thus exalts the church.
	 Might be made known.  This points unmistakably to an increase of knowledge on the part of the angels.
	 Through the church.  ‘This is the theatre of the glory of God, of the Divine works (Bengel); see 1 Corinthians 4:9. It is a communion in beaten and on earth, church militant and triumphant, and as such, an object of interest to the good angels; Matthew 18:10; Luke 15:7; Luke 15:10; 1 Corinthians 11:10; Hebrews 1:14. We are not indeed the professors at whose feet the angels must sit as scholars, but it is God who leads them onward in the knowledge of His wisdom; we are but the means of instruction’ (Braune).
	 The manifold wisdom of God. The wisdom is one, but its manifestations are varied. Through this variety, adapted to the several ages, races, and individuals in the church, the wisdom of God is revealed to the angels. It were well if sinful men learned more of it from the history of the church. One day the very disharmony and entanglement which now perplexes us may reveal to us the  manifoldness  of the wisdom.
	