40. And they went out of the
	prison—Having attained their object—to vindicate their civil
	rights, by the infraction of which in this case the Gospel in their
	persons had been illegally affronted—they had no mind to carry the
	matter farther. Their citizenship was valuable to them only as a
	shield against unnecessary injuries to their Master's cause. What a
	beautiful mixture of dignity and meekness is this!
	Nothing secular, which may be turned to the account of the Gospel, is
	morbidly disregarded; in any other view, nothing of this nature is
	set store by:—an example this for all ages. 
	and entered into the house of
	Lydia—as if to show by this leisurely proceeding that they had
	not been made to leave, but were at full liberty to consult their own
	convenience. 
	and when they had seen the
	brethren—not only her family and the jailer's, but probably
	others now gained to the Gospel. 
	they comforted them—rather,
	perhaps, "exhorted" them, which would include comfort.
	"This assembly of believers in the house of Lydia was the
	first church that had been founded in Europe" [BAUMGARTEN].
	and departed—but not
	all; for two of the company remained behind (see on  :-): Timotheus, of whom the Philippians "learned
	the proof" that he honestly cared for their state, and was truly
	like-minded with Paul, "serving with him in the Gospel as a son
	with his father" ( :-); and Luke, "whose praise is in the Gospel,"
	though he never praises himself or relates his own labors, and though
	we only trace his movements in connection with Paul, by the change of
	a pronoun, or the unconscious variation of his style. In the
	seventeenth chapter the narrative is again in the third
	person, and the pronoun is not changed to the second till we
	come to Acts 20:5. The modesty
	with which Luke leaves out all mention of his own labors need hardly
	be pointed out. We shall trace him again when he rejoins Paul in the
	same neighborhood. His vocation as a physician may have brought him
	into connection with these contiguous coasts of Asia and Europe, and
	he may (as MR. SMITH
	suggests, "Shipwreck," &c.) have been in the habit of
	exercising his professional skill as a surgeon at sea [HOWSON].