9, 10. a vision appeared to Paul in
	the night—while awake, for it is not called a dream. 
	There stood a man of
	Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help
	us—Stretching his eye across the Ægean Sea, from Troas on the
	northeast, to the Macedonian hills, visible on the northwest, the
	apostle could hardly fail to think this the destined scene of his
	future labors; and, if he retired to rest with this thought, he would
	be thoroughly prepared for the remarkable intimation of the divine
	will now to be given him. This visional Macedonian discovered himself
	by what he said. But it was a cry not of conscious desire for
	the Gospel, but of deep need of it and unconscious
	preparedness to receive it, not only in that region, but, we
	may well say, throughout all that western empire which Macedonia
	might be said to represent. It was a virtual confession "that
	the highest splendor of heathendom, which we must recognize in the
	arts of Greece and in the polity and imperial power of Rome, had
	arrived at the end of all its resources. God had left the Gentile
	peoples to walk in their own ways ( :-). They had sought to gain salvation for themselves; but
	those who had carried it farthest along the paths of natural
	development were now pervaded by the feeling that all had indeed been
	vanity. This feeling is the simple, pure result of all the history of
	heathendom. And Israel, going along the way which God had marked out
	for him, had likewise arrived at his end. At last he is in a
	condition to realize his original vocation, by becoming the guide who
	is to lead the Gentiles unto God, the only Author and Creator of
	man's redemption; and Paul is in truth the very person in whom this
	vocation of Israel is now a present divine reality, and to whom, by
	this nocturnal apparition of the Macedonian, the preparedness of the
	heathen world to receive the ministry of Israel towards the Gentiles
	is confirmed" [BAUMGARTEN].
	This voice cries from heathendom still to the Christian Church,
	and never does the Church undertake the work of missions, nor any
	missionary go forth from it, in the right spirit, save in obedience
	to this cry.