Wickedness [πονηριαι] . Plural. Rev., wickednesses. From ponein, to toil. The adjective ponhrov means, first, oppressed by toils; then in bad case or plight, from which it runs into the sense of morally bad. This conception seems to have been associated by the high - born with the life of the lower, laboring, slavish class; just as our word knave (like the German knabe from which it is derived) originally meant simply a boy or a servant - lad. As ponov means hard, vigorous labor, battle for instance, so the adjective ponhrov, in a moral sense, indicates active wickedness. So Jeremy Taylor : "Aptness to do shrewd turns, to delight in mischiefs and tragedies; a loving to trouble one's neighbor and do him ill offices." Ponhrov, therefore, is dangerous, destructive. Satan is called oJ ponhrov, the wicked one. Kakov, evil (see evil thoughts, verse 21), characterizes evil rather as defect : "That which is not such as, according to its nature, destination, and idea it might be or ought to be" [χρεμερ] . Hence of incapacity in war; of cowardice [κακια] . Kakov doulov, the evil servant, in Matthew 24:48, is a servant wanting in proper fidelity and diligence. Thus the thoughts are styled evil, as being that which, in their nature and purpose, they ought not to be. Matthew, however (xv. 19), calls these thoughts ponhroi, the thoughts in action, taking shape in purpose. Both adjectives occur in Revelation 16:2. Lasciviousness [ασελγεια] . Derivation unknown. It includes lasciviousness, and may well mean that here; but is often used without this notion. In classical Greek it is defined as violence, with spiteful treatment and audacity. As in this passage its exact meaning is not implied by its being classed with other kindred terms, it would seem better to take it in as wide a sense as possible - that of lawless insolence and wanton caprice, and to render, with Trench, wantonness, since that word, as he remarks, "stands in remarkable ethical connection with ajselgeia, and has the same duplicity of meaning" (" Synonyms of the New Testament "). At Romans 13:13, where lasciviousness seems to be the probable meaning, from its association with chambering [κοιταις] , it is rendered wantonness in A. V. and Rev., as also at 2 Peter 2:18. Evil eye [οφθαλμος πονηρος] . A malicious, mischief - working eye, with the meaning of positive, injurious activity. See on wickednesses. Blasphemy [βλασφημια] . The word does not necessarily imply blasphemy against God. It is used of reviling, calumny, evil - speaking in general. See Matthew 27:39; Romans 3:8; Romans 14:16; 1 Peter 4:4, etc. Hence Rev. renders railing. Pride [υπερηφανια] . From uJper, above, and fainesqai, to show one's self. The picture in the word is that of a man with his head held high above others. It is the sin of an uplifted heart against God and man. Compare Proverbs 16:5; Romans 12:16 (mind not high things); 1 Timothy 3:6.