Wash themselves [βαπτισωνται] . Two of the most important manuscripts, however, read rJantiswntai, sprinkled themselves. See Rev., in margin. This reading is adopted by Westcott and Hort. The American Revisers insist on bathe, instead of wash, already used as a translation of niywntai (verse 3). The scope of this work does not admit of our going into the endless controversy to which this word has given rise. It will be sufficient to give the principal facts concerning its meaning and usage. In classical Greek the primary meaning is to merse. Thus Polybius (i., 51, 6), describing a naval battle of the Romans and Carthaginians, says, "They sank [εβαπτιζον] many of the ships." Josephos (" Jewish War, "4, 3, 3), says of the crowds which flocked into Jerusalem at the time of the siege," They overwhelmed [εβαπτισαν] the city. "In a metaphorical sense Plato uses it of drunkenness : drowned in drink (bebaptismenoi," Symposium, "176); of a youth overwhelmed [βαπτιζομενον] with the argument of his adversary (" Euthydemus," 277). In the Septuagint the verb occurs four times : Isaiah 21:4, Terror hath frighted me. Septuagint, Iniquity baptizes me [βαπτιζει] ; 2 Kings 5:15, of Naaman's dipping himself in Jordan [εβαπτισατο] ; Judith 12 7, Judith washing herself [εβαπτιζετο] at the fountain; Sirach 31 25, being baptized [βαπτιζομενος] from a dead body. The New Testament use of the word to denote submersion for a religious purpose, may be traced back to the Levitical washings. See Leviticus 11:32 (of vessels); Leviticus 11:40 (of clothes); Numbers 8:6, Numbers 8:7 (sprinkling with purifying water); Exodus 30:19, Exodus 30:21 (of washing hands and feet). The word appears to have been at that time the technical term for such washings (compare Luke 11:38; Hebrews 9:10; Mark 7:4), and could not therefore have been limited to the meaning immerse. Thus the washing of pots and vessels for ceremonial purification could not have been by plunging them in water, which would have rendered impure the whole body of purifying water. The word may be taken in the sense of washing or sprinkling. "The Teaching of the Apostles" (see on Matthew 10:10) throws light on the elastic interpretation of the term, in its directions for baptism. "Baptize - in living (i. e., running) water. But if thou hast not living water, baptize in other water; and if thou canst not in cold, then in warm. But if thou hast neither, pour water upon the head thrice into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit" (Chapter 7.). Pots [ξεστων] . Another of Mark's Latin words, adapted from the Latin sextarius, a pint measure. Wyc., cruets. Tynd., cruses. Brazen vessels [χαλκιων] . More literally, copper. Tables [κλινων] . Omitted in some of the best manuscripts and texts, and by Rev. The A. V. is a mistranslation, the word meaning couches. If this belongs in the text, we certainly cannot explain baptismouv as immersion.