 6 .] It has been much disputed whether this verse (as also 1 Peter 1:8 , see there) is to be taken of  present joy, or of  future . In the latter case the present  ἀγαλλιᾶσθε in both places must be a categorical present, used of a future time: as Thl., Œc. τὸ ἀγαλλιᾶσθε ἀντὶ μέλλοντος εἴληπται . And this sense seems to be sanctioned by 1 Peter 1:8 , in which he could hardly predicate of his readers, that they at the present time rejoiced χαρᾷ ἀνεκλαλήτῳ καὶ δεδοξασμένῃ . To avoid this, those who suppose the whole to allude to the time present, and the realization of future bliss by faith, imagine the present ἀγαλλιᾶσθε (not to be an imperative, as Aug [1] , al., but) to have a slight hortatory force, reminding them of their duty in the matter. This however again will hardly suit the very strong qualifying terms above quoted from 1 Peter 1:8 . On the whole, after consideration, I prefer the former interpretation, and the quasi-future sense of ἀγαλλιᾶσθε in both places, with Syr., Œc. (alt.), Thl., Erasm., Luther, Huther, Wiesinger, against Calv., Estius, Grot., Calov., Steiger, De Wette, al. And this interpretation will be found confirmed, as we proceed, by many lesser accuracies and proprieties of rendering.
	 [1]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 In which (i. e. ἐν ἐσχάτῳ καιρῷ : the  ἐν ᾧ is temporal,  ἐν bearing the same sense in the resumption as it did at the end of 1 Peter 1:5 , from which it is resumed. Such is our Apostle’s manner, to resume, in proceeding further, the thing or person just mentioned, in the same sense as before: cf. 1 Peter 1:5 ; 1 Peter 1:8 ; 1 Peter 1:10 . Or,  ἐν ᾧ may mean, ‘at which,’ ‘wherein,’ as ch. 1 Peter 4:4 ; the καιρὸς ἔσχατος being not the time, but the object of your joy. Those who regard ἀγαλλιᾶσθε as strictly present, understand ἐν ᾧ as in ch. 1 Peter 4:4 , but refer it to the whole preceding: so Calv., “Articulus, ‘in quo,’ refert totum illud complexum de spe salutis in cœlo repositæ”)  ye rejoice  (  ἀγαλλ . is a stronger word than χαίρειν , implying the external expression and exuberant triumph of joy. It is sometimes joined with χαίρειν , as in reff. Matt. and Rev.),  for a little time (as in ch. 1Pe 5:10 and other reff.)  at present (  ἄρτι would, on the hypothesis of ἀγαλλιᾶσθε being a proper present, be superfluous)  if it must be so (= ‘si res ita ferat,’ if it be God’s will that it should be so: ‘si’ is hypothetical, not affirmative as Bengel. Cf. Œc. (alt.), τουτέστιν , εἰ καὶ τοῦτο δεῖ · οὐ γὰρ πάντες οἱ ἅγιοι θλίβονται )  having been afflicted (this past part., more than any thing, favours the quasi-future acceptation of ἀγαλλιᾶσθε : looking back from the time of which exultation, the grief is regarded as passed away and gone. It carries with it a slightly adversative sense ‘though ye were troubled,’ ‘troubled as ye were,’ or the like)  in (not = διὰ , but the element and material of the λύπη )  manifold temptations (  πειρασμοῖς , as in ref. James, trials, arising from whatever cause; here, mainly from persecution, see ch. 1 Peter 4:12 ff., on the πύρωσις πρὸς πειρασμὸν ὑμῶν γινομένη .
	 ποικίλοις : cf. James 1:2 ; “non unam tentationem ponit, sed plures; neque unum tantum genus, sed diversa.” Calv.),