 5 .]  who are being guarded (“Quid juvat, salutem nobis in cœlo esse repositam, quum nos in mundo tanquam in turbulento mari jactemur? quid juvat, salutem nostram statui in tranquillo portu, quum inter mille naufragia fluctuemur? Prævenit apostolus ejusmodi objectiones,” &c. Calvin. “Hæreditas servata est: hæredes custodiuntur: neque illa his, neque hi deerunt illi. Corroboratio insignis.” Bengel. “Militare est vocabulum φρουρά : præsidium. Pii igitur dum sunt in periculis, sciant totidem eis divinitus parata esse præsidia: millia millium custodiunt eos.” Aretius, in Huther)  in (  ἐν , of the power in which, and by virtue of which, the φρουρά is effectual: not, as Steinmeyer, al., “  in ,” as in a φρουρά or fortress)  the power of God by (the  δύναμις θεοῦ was the efficient cause: now we come to the effective means)  faith (“The causes of our preservation are two: 1. Supreme, the power of God; 2. Subordinate, faith.… Our faith lays hold upon this power, and this power strengthens faith, and so we are preserved.” Leighton)  unto (the end and limit of the φρουρεῖσθαι : cf. the very similar expression, in ref. Gal., ἐφρουρούμεθα συγκλειόμενοι εἰς τὴν μέλλουσαν πίστιν ἀποκαλυφθῆναι . Calvin, Steiger, al. take this  εἰς as co-ordinate with εἰς κληρ . above, and this clause as a second (third) pendant on ἀναγεννήσας : “Rem unam duobus modis exprimit,” Calv. But it seems better, as in Gal. l. c., to attach εἰς to φρουουρμένους )  salvation (  σωτηρία , though in itself a merely negative idea, involves in itself, and came to mean in the N. T., the positive setting in bliss of the people of God: cf. 1 Peter 1:9 ; Jam 1:21 al. fr.)  ready (stronger than μέλλουσαν , Galatians 3:23 ; Romans 8:18 ; ch. 1Pe 5:1 )  to be revealed (see the two last cited places. The stress of the ἑτοίμην ἀποκαλυφθῆναι is, as Wiesinger well remarks, not the nearness of the ἀποκάλυψις , but the fact of the salvation being  ready to be revealed: not yet to be brought in and accomplished, but already complete, and only waiting God’s time to be manifested. On the inf. aor. after ἑτοίμην , here giving the rapid completion of the act of ἀποκάλυψις as contrasted with the enduring φρουρεῖσθαι , see Winer, § 44. 7,  b, c )  in the last time (not, as Bengel, “in comparatione ad tempora V. T.,” but absolutely, as in τῇ ἐσχάτῃ ἡμέρᾳ . It is otherwise in Jude 1:18 , where see):