 3 .]  Blessed be (  εὐλογητός is used in the N. T. of God only: and so almost always in the O. T.: while εὐλογημένος is applied to men. The shade of distinction is perhaps this: that εὐλογητός carries with it rather the imperative, ‘Blessed be’ &c., εὐλογημένος the indicative, ‘Blessed is’ &c. This is better than Van Hengel’s distinction (on Rom. p. 140), that the verbal adjective gives “quod sibi constat,” the participle, “quod aliunde pendet:” for thus we should not get the idea of praise in εὐλογητός )  the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ (so verbatim ref. Eph., where see note),  who according to (see on 1 Peter 1:2 , κατὰ πρόγνωσιν κ . τ . λ .)  his much mercy (cf. πλούσιος ὢν ἐν ἐλέει , ref. Eph.)  begat us again (as in ref. and elsewhere in the N. T., where the idea, though not the word, occurs, of the new birth from the state of nature to the state of grace, the work of God the Spirit ( 1Pe 1:2 ), by means of the word ( 1Pe 1:23 ), in virtue of Christ’s propitiatory sacrifice and of union with Him (1 Peter 1:2 ; 1 Peter 1:18 ; ch. 1 Peter 2:24 ; 1Pe 3:18 ))  unto (  εἰς , either  telic , unto as aim and end, = ‘that we might have,’ or  local , unto = into; = ‘so that we have.’ The latter is here preferable, seeing that hope is not the aim but the condition of the Christian life)  a living hope (  ζῶσαν , as connected with ἀναγεννήσας ; it is a life of hope, a life in which hope is the energizing principle. This is better than to understand it as contrasting our hope with that of the hypocrite, which shall perish: as Leighton, in some of his most beautiful language.  ἐλπίς is not to be understood of the  object of hope , but of hope properly so called, subjectively. This hope of the Christian “has life in itself, gives life, and looks for life as its object,” De Wette)  through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead (to what does  δι  ʼ refer? Œc. says, καὶ πόθεν τὸ ζωὴν ἔχουσα ; ἀπὸ τοῦ ἐκ νεκρῶν ἀναστάντος Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . And similarly, referring διὰ to ζῶσαν , Luth., Bengel, De W., al. But, while we retain distinctly the connexion of our  living hope with the  life of Him on whom it depends, it is much more natural to join this instrumental clause with the verb ἀναγεννήσας , as bringing in with it the whole clause, ἡμᾶς εἰς ἐλπίδα ζῶσαν , by which it is defined. The resurrection of Christ, bringing in life and the gift or the life-giving Spirit, is that which potentiates the new birth unto a living hope),