 8 .]  whom (it is in the manner of our Apostle to take up anew and with a fresh line of thought, a person or thing just mentioned: see above on 1Pe 1:6 )  having not seen (so the E. V. with more than usual accuracy: the  οὐκ , as distinguished from μή , adhering closely to the verb. If οὐκ εἰδότες be read, the meaning will be the same: the lack of knowledge there predicated being that which arises from absence of personal eye to eye acquaintance)  ye love (now, at this present time):  in whom though now ye see Him not, yet believing (so E. V. again accurately. With this word the ἄρτι condition of believers ends, and with the next, ἀγαλλιᾶσθε , the then state again begins)  ye (then)  rejoice (pres. categoric, as before. Some would join  εἰς ὅν with ἀγαλλιᾶσθε , taking ὁρῶντες and πιστεύοντες absolutely. So Huther (alt.), and probably E. V. which may be taken either way. The objection to this is, that ἀγαλλιάω is not found with εἰς , as neither are verbs of cognate meaning. Others again, as De Wette, would take  εἰς ὅν with πιστεύοντες δὲ ἀγαλλιᾶσθε , leaving an object ( αὐτόν ) to be supplied after ὑρῶντες . This would confine ἀγαλλιᾶσθε to a strictly present meaning, as (see above) De W. maintains it has)  with joy unspeakable (ineffable, which cannot be spoken out = ἀλάλητος , Rom 8:26 )  and glorified (this word  δεδοξασμένῃ is the strongest testimony for the quasi-future sense which we have adopted and maintained for ἀγαλλιᾶσθε , both times. It fixes the reference of the verb to that time when hope shall have passed into enjoyment, and joy shall be crowned with glory. The meaning on the other interpretation is obliged to be weakened down to “joy bearing in itself glory, i. e. the high consciousness of glory:” so De Wette (  herrlichkeit, das hochgefuhl derselben in sich tragender Freude ), and Steinmeyer, “quia δόξαν futuram præsentem habet et sentit” [the E. V. “  full of glory ” is quite beside the meaning. It is no  quality of the joy which is asserted, but a fact which has happened to it]),