 13 .]  First exhortation to WATCHFULNESS  and ENDURANCE OF HOPE.  Wherefore ( αἰτιολογικῶς ἀπὸ τῶν προτιμημένων ἡ παράκλησις · εἰπὼν γὰρ ὅτι οἱ προφῆται διηκόνησαν ἡμῖν τὰ τῆς σωτηρίας ἡμῶν , ταῦτα δὲ οὕτως ἦν θαυμαστά , ὡς , καὶ ἀγγέλοις ἐράσμια καταστῆναι , … ἐπάγει τὸ αἴτιον τούτων καί φησιν , ἐπεὶ οὖν τοιαῦτα τὰ δεδιηκονημένα ὑμῖν πᾶσι καὶ ἐράσμια καὶ τριπόθητα οὐ μόνον ἀνθρώποις ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀγγέλοις , διὰ τοῦτο μηδὲ ὑμεῖς ἀμελῶς πρὸς αὐτὰ διατεθῆτε , ἀλλὰ συντείναντες ἑαυτοὺς κ . ἀνδρικῶς διατεθέντες . Œc. This connexion is better than that imagined by some Commentators, with 1Pe 1:5-9 generally; nor is the reason underlying  διό , “because the Christian must through trial and proof reach glory” (De Wette), which rather lies in 1 Peter 1:5-7 , and is not again mentioned in the course of these exhortations)  gird up (dynamic middle: the aor. conveying the sense of completeness and once-for-all-nature of the action)  the loins of your mind (the figure is  one throughout, not  your loins , viz.  those of your mind , τὰς ὀσφύας ὑμῶν τῆς διανοίας . On  διάνοια , see note on ref. 2 Pet. The exhortation seems to be taken from our Lord’s command, Luke 12:35 , where, as here, the girding up is a preparation for the coming of the Lord. On the figure see Ephesians 6:14 ff., and Œc, above),  being sober (“Mentis sobrietas et vigilantia requiritur, sicque metaphora in lumborum cinctura prius reposita ἐξηγητικῶς explicatur.” Gerhard in Wiesinger. Calvin explains it well, “Non temperantiam solum in cibo et potu commendat, sed spiritualem potius sobrietatem, quum sensus omnes nostros continemus, ne se hujus mundi illecebris inebrient.” Observe  νήφοντες , pres. part., indicating the continuing state in which the ἀναζώσασθαι and the ἐλπίσαι take place),  hope perfectly (i. e. “without doubt or dejection, with full devotion of soul,” De W.: even better Wahl, Lex., “ita, ut nihil desideretur.” Erasm., Grot., Bengel take  τελείως as merely temporal, “  in finem usque ;” and so E. V., “  hope to the end :” but this clearly does not reach the full meaning. Syr., Œc., Jer [3] , Benson, Semler, al. join τελείως with νήφοντες , which is of course possible, and better satisfies the rhythm of the sentence, in which on the other view νήφοντες stands rather feebly alone. But all things considered, I feel persuaded the majority of Commentators are right in making it an emphatic adjunct to the great word of exhortation, ἐλπίσατε )  for (in the direction of: so ref. 1 Tim.)  the grace (i. e. the great  gift of grace, the crowning example of grace. Syr., Œc., al. read χαράν )  which is being brought (E. V., “  is to be brought ;” not amiss, but not giving, what  φερομένην expresses, the near impending of the event spoken of: q. d. ‘which is even now bearing down on you’)  to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ (the meaning of St. Peter’s own ἐν ἀποκαλύψει Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , as applied to the revelation of the Lord at His second advent, 1 Peter 1:7 , seems to fix the meaning of the above words as here given, and to preclude the rendering of Erasm. (“dum vobis patefit, seu manifestatur, Jesus Christus:” but doubtfully), Luther, Calov., Bengel, Steiger, al., who take the whole as referring to the present revelation of grace made by the gospel, in which Jesus Christ is revealed. The right meaning is given by Œc., Calv. (but taking  ἐν for  εἰς “usque ad”), Beza, Grot., Est., Semler, Pott, De W., Huther, Wiesinger).
	 [3]  Jerome , fl. 378 420