 12 .]  to whom (taking up again προφῆται οἱ …)  it was revealed (how are these words to be taken? Does  ἀπεκαλύφθη , 1. correspond to ἐραυνῶντες κ . τ . λ ., so as to signify that the revelation was the result of their search, or the answer to it? The difficulty in such a rendering would be, that in one instance only would this be true, viz. that of Daniel, and even in that, not strictly correspondent: whereas it is here predicated of the Prophets generally. Most certainly it cannot be in any sense said of them, that the exact time of the fulfilment of their prophecies was revealed to them. Or does it, 2. signify that just so much was revealed to them, as that their prophecies were not to be fulfilled in their own time, but in ours? This again would be objectionable, seeing,  α  . that there would be nothing corresponding to it in prophetic history, with the sole exception of Daniel, as before:  β  . that it would rather indicate a stop and discouragement of their search, than its legitimate result. Add to this, that the cases in which St. Peter himself, in the Acts, cites the prophecies, shew how he intended this ἀπεκαλύφθη to be taken: e. g. he quotes Joel, Acts 2:17 , speaking of the things prophesied by him as to take place ἐν ταῖς ἐσχάταις ἡμέραις : he says of David, ib. Acts 2:31 , προϊδὼν ἐλάλησεν περὶ τῆς ἀναστάσεως : and Acts 3:24 , he says, καὶ πάντες δὲ οἱ προφῆται ἀπὸ Σαμουὴλ καὶ τῶν καθεξῆς ὅσοι ἐλάλησαν καὶ κατήγγειλαν τὰς ἡμέρας ταύτας . From these examples it would appear, that the ἀπεκαλύφθη here is not said of any result or consequence of their ἐραυνῆσαι , but of the general revelation made to them: that it is co-ordinate with, not subordinate to ἐραυνῶντες . So in substance Wiesinger: the great stream of interpreters being the other way, or not touching the difficulty at all),  that (not, ‘  because ,’ as on interpretation (1) above it must be, and as Luther, al. take it: this clause does not contain the reason for the ἀπεκαλύφθη , but the content and purport of the ἀποκάλυψις )  not to themselves (dat. commodi)  but to you they were ministering (i. e. by announcing, foretelling: see reff.: Orig [2] on Psalms 48:0 , vol. ii. p. 718, διακονεῖν τὸν λόγον : Jos. Antt. vi. 13. 6, of David’s message to Nabal, ταῦτα τῶν πεμφθέντων διακονησάντων πρὸς τὸν Νάβαλον κ . τ . λ .)  the things (in their previous announcement and foreshadowing)  which now have been declared (aor., ‘  were declared :’ νῦν embracing the N. T. period: but we in English cannot join ‘  were ’ with ‘  now ’)  unto you by means of those who preached the gospel to you by (dat. instrumental)  the Holy Spirit sent (historic tense again, referring distinctly to the day of Pentecost)  from heaven (herein consists the great difference between Prophet and Evangelist: the former was the organ of τὸ ἐν αὐτῷ πνεῦμα χριστοῦ , the latter preached by the πνεῦμα ἅγιον ἀποσταλὲν ἀπ ʼ οὐρανοῦ . Still, both are one in design, and in the contents of their testimony: cf. the τῆς εἰς ὑμᾶς χάριτος , and τὰ εἰς χριστὸν παθήματα . And both are here mentioned, to set before the readers their exceeding happiness in being the favoured objects of the ministration of salvation by Prophets and Apostles alike. “Ideo præcesserunt eorum vaticinia, quo certior esset fides nobis, qui nunc eadem vobis nuntiamus facta quæ prædixerant illi futura.” Erasm. (paraph.)),  which things (viz. the things announced to you: the αὐτὰ … ἅ : not, as many, the future glories promised to us: see below)  angels (generic, as προφῆται above: see there)  desire to look into (  παρακύψαι , see reff., to stoop down and peer into. It enhances further still the excellence of the salvation revealed to us, that angels, for whom it is not designed as for us ( Heb 2:16 ), long to pry into its mysteries. To the principalities and powers in heavenly places is made known, by the Church, the manifold wisdom of God, Ephesians 3:10 . Hofmann remarks, Schriftb. i. 313, “Angels have only the contrast between good and evil, without the power of conversion from sin to righteousness. Being then witnesses of such conversion to God, they long to penetrate the knowledge of the means by which it is brought about.… They themselves are placed outside the scheme of salvation: therefore it is said that they desire to look into the facts of the apostolic preaching”).
	 [2] Origen, b. 185, d. 254