 14 .]  As (“  ὡς here, as in ch. 1Pe 2:2 ; 1 Peter 2:5 ; 1 Peter 3:7 , does not serve for comparison, but marks the essential quality of the subject: Lorinus says on ch. 1Pe 2:14 rightly, ‘Constat hujusmodi particulas sæpe nihil minuere, sed rei veritatem magis exprimere.’ ” Huther)  children of obedience (cf. τέκνα ὀργῆς , Ephesians 2:3 ; τέκνα φωτός , Ephesians 5:8 ; and esp. τοὺς υἱοὺς τῆς ἀπειθείας , Ephesians 5:6 ; τεκνα κατάρας , 2 Peter 2:14 . “This mode of expression,” says Winer, Gram. § 34. 3.  b , Remark 2, “must be referred to the more vivid way of regarding things prevalent among the Orientals, which treats intimate connexion, derivation and dependence, even in spiritual matters, as the relation of a child or a son. ‘Children of disobedience’ are accordingly those, who belong to ἀπείθεια as a child to its mother, to whom disobedience is become a nature, a ruling disposition.” Hence the student may learn to rise above all such silly and shallow interpretations as that τέκνα ὑπακοῆς is a Hebraism for τέκνα ὑπήκοα . The depths of the sacred tongue were given us to descend into, not to bridge over)  not conforming yourselves (thus only, by expressing a middle sense, can we bring out the present participle as combined with the subjective prohibitory particle: and so E. V., well: “  not fashioning yourselves according to .” [But it would have been better to keep the same English for the word as is given in] ref., where the expression, and tense, are similar. The word  συνσχηματίζεσθαι belongs to later Greek. The participial construction is variously explained: Wiesinger refers it back to ἀναζωσάμενοι and νήφοντες above; Bengel  supplies γενήθητε ; De Wette connects it with γενήθητε following, ἀλλά being inserted in negligence of the strict construction; Huther regards it as belonging not to γενήθητε , but to κατὰ τὸν καλές . ὑμ . ἅγιον below (?). De Wette’s view is in the closest analogy with the construction in 1 Peter 1:22 , ἡγνικότες .… ἀγαπήσατε : and perhaps therefore to be preferred: but Wiesinger’s is very obvious and natural)  to your lusts (  which were )  formerly in your ignorance (  ἄγνοια ,  as in reff., ignorance of things divine, even to the extent of heathenish alienation from God, which latter is most probably here pointed at. Cf. Romans 1:18 ff. This ignorance marks not only the period, but also the ground and element of these lusts prevailing in fashioning the life. As to the construction in ταῖς | πρότερον ἐν τῇ ἀγνοίᾳ ὑμῶν | ἐπιθυμίαις , πρότερον - ἐν - τῇ - ἀγν .- ὑμῶν , which would more naturally stand as predicate ( ταῖς ἐπιθυμίαις ταῖς πρότ .- ἐν -  τῇ  -  ἀγν - ὑμ .), forms an adjectival epithet),