 11 .]  searching (the part. takes up again the two verbs, with a view to mark more definitely the object of their search, now about to be described)  at (towards, with reference to)  what or what sort of (  τίνα as identifying,  ποῖον as describing. “  Quod innuit tempus  per se , quasi dicas æram suis numeris notatam:  quale dicit tempus ex eventibus variis noscendum.” Bengel. And Justiniani: “Non modo  quod … sed etiam  quale … pacisne an belli tempore, servitutis an libertatis, quo denique reipublicæ statu.… Et quidem David, ‘Orietur,’ ait, ‘in diebus ejus justitia, et abundantia pacis:’ et in eandem sententiam Esaias, ‘Conflabunt gladios suos in vomeres,’ &c. &c.”)  season was declaring (signifying, revealing)  the Spirit of Christ which was in them (the Spirit of Christ, i. e. Christ’s Spirit, gen. subj.: the Spirit which Christ has and gives, being He who reveals all things relating to Christ and the purposes of the Father: see Matthew 11:27 ; John 16:14-15 , which passages, though in their normal sense they apply to N. T. revelations, yet in their declarative and abstract truth regard the Spirit’s office in all ages. Cf. also Acts 16:7 . “Prophetæ ab ipso habentes donum in illum prophetarunt,” Ep. Barnab. c. 5, p. 735),  testifying beforehand the sufferings regarding (spoken of with reference to; or, as before, ‘destined for’)  Christ (it is disputed, whether χριστόν be meant of Christ individually, or of Christ mystically, including His Church. The former view is taken by Œc., Thl., Erasm., Grot., Aret., Piscator, Vorst, Bengel, Steiger, De Wette, al.: the latter by Luther, Calvin, Huther, Wiesinger. Our answer may be thus given. The expression is not indeed strictly parallel with that in Colossians 1:24 , ἀνταναπληρῶ τὰ ὑστερήματα  τῶν θλίψεων τοῦ χριστοῦ : see note there: but still the two are so far analogous that they may throw light one on the other. In both, as in ch. 1Pe 2:21 ; 1 Peter 3:18 ; 1 Peter 4:1 ; 1Pe 4:13 ; 1 Peter 5:1 , and in many other places where Christ’s sufferings are spoken of, χριστός is used without Ἰησοῦς , not thereby precluding the personal designation of our Lord, but still carrying into prominence the official and mediatorial: and on this latter account, if the context seem to require it, including also the wider mystical sense in which Christ’s sufferings are those of the whole aggregate of His spiritual body. The question for us then is, Does the context here require this latter extended meaning? And to this we must answer decidedly in the negative. The ἃ νῦν ἀνηγγέλη ὑμῖν διὰ τῶν εὐαγγελισαμένων ὑμᾶς , are the contents of the gospel history, the sufferings and triumphs of Christ. And it was of these as appointed for ( εἰς ) Him as means of bringing in the grace which was appointed for ( εἰς ) you, that the prophets testified beforehand),  and the glories after these (  sufferings ) (on these  δόξαι , see ch. 1 Peter 3:18 ; 1 Peter 3:22 ; 1 Peter 5:1 . “Gloriam resurrectionis: gloriam adscensionis: gloriam judicii novissimi et regni cœlestis.” Bengel.
	If it be asked, what prophets are meant, we may reply, the prophets generally. Of one of them, who did prophesy of the sufferings of Christ, and the glories after them, viz. Daniel, we have it related, that he “understood by books the number of the years” destined for the desolations of Jerusalem: and our Lord declared that many Prophets and kings desired to see the things which his disciples saw, and saw them not):