 17 .]  Further exhortation , in consideration of our close relation of children to God our Judge,  to reverence and godly fear .  And if (“  Si non dubitantis est, sed supponentis rem notam. Est enim omnium renatorum communis oratio, Pater noster qui es in cœlis.” Estius. The  εἰ introduces an hypothesis with an understood background of fact: If, (as is the case) &c.)  ye call upon as father (  πατέρα , not, as E. V. “  the Father ,” but used predicatively and prefixed for emphasis)  Him who judgeth impartially (see Acts 10:34 ; Jam 2:1 reff. The pres. part. gives the attribute or office: “Him, who is the Judge,” see ref. So that there is not even an apparent inconsistency with the declaration that the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son, John 5:22 ; for this last fact of itself implies that the Father  is the Judge , the ‘fons judicii:’ as Didymus says here, “judicante Filio Pater est qui jndicat”)  according to the work of each man (  ἔργον  : “Unius hominis unum est opus, bonum malumve.” Bengel. Cf. James 1:4 ; Galatians 6:4 .  ἑκάστου , be he Jew or Gentile, high or low, rich or poor: thus by setting God’s just judgment above all alike, His Majesty, as inculcating godly fear, is enhanced),  behave (see on ἀναστροφή above)  during the time of your sojourning (on  παροικέω , see note, Hebrews 11:9 . The Christian, who calls God his Father, is in exile, tarrying in a strange country, while here on earth)  in fear (  ἐνφόβῳ stands first as emphatic. How, it is asked, is this, seeing that “there is no fear in love: for perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment” ( 1Jn 4:18 )? Œc. answers, that the fear here recommended is not the φόβος καταρκτικός , leading to repentance, but the φόβος τελειωτικός , which accompanies the Christian through his whole course. And Leighton beautifully says, “This fear is not cowardice: it doth not debase, but elevates the mind: for it drowns all lower fears, and begets true fortitude and courage to encounter all dangers for the sake of a good conscience and the obeying of God. The righteous is as bold as a lion, Proverbs 28:1 . He dares do any thing, but offend God: and to dare to do that, is the greatest folly, and weakness, and baseness, in the world. From this fear have sprung all the generous resolutions, and patient sufferings of the saints and martyrs of God: because they durst not sin against Him, therefore they durst be imprisoned, and impoverished and tortured and die for Him. Thus the prophet sets carnal and godly fear as opposite, and the one expelling the other, Isaiah 8:12-13 . And our Saviour, Luke 12:4 , ‘Fear not them which kill the body, but fear Him’ &c. Fear not, but fear: and therefore fear, that you may not fear”),