 23 .]  Ground of the exhortation , carried up further than the act of ἡγνικέναι above, to the state of the new life of which that was an act; even to the beginning of that new life in their regeneration by the divine word. And the begetting cause of this new birth being God’s living and imperishable word, from that fact come in new considerations, enforcing that pure love which belongs not to a transitory and shifting but to an eternal and abiding state.  Being born again, not of (out of, as origin)  corruptible seed (  σπορά , not in its strict and proper sense, ‘  sowing ’ (ref. 4 Kings), but in its looser one of  seed . And the seed spoken of is not, as Huther, that of plants; but the  semen humanum , as the sequel shews),  but incorruptible, by means of (not ἐκ this time. The word of God is not the begetting principle itself, but only that by which the principle works: as it were the coccus or grain which is the involucrum and vehicle of the mysterious germinating power. We are not regenerated ἐκ but διὰ λόγου . But on the other hand, the word itself is no mere perishing vehicle; no mere sacramental symbol, lost in the using: but it lives by and with the divine principle of life which it conveys and expands, and abides for ever. The  ἐκ of origination rests in God Himself, the Father, who begat us of his own will: the  διὰ of instrumentality moves on and abides for ever)  the (the definite art. is necessary in English, for the very reason for which it is omitted in Greek: viz. to prevent the  λόγου from becoming concrete, and keep it to its widest general and abstract reference)  word of God, living and abiding (  ζῶντος is thrown forward, as an emphatic predicate, before θεοῦ . That the two participles belong to λόγου , not to θεοῦ , is decisively shewn by the sequel, where the abiding nature, not of God, but of the word of God, is set forth. Many, however, have taken them with θεοῦ ; so vulg. (“per verbum Dei vivi”), (not Œc. as commonly cited, for he says,  on this verse , εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα δὲ μένειν αὐτὸ διαβεβαιοῦται ), Beza (who however prints “per verbum Dei vivum et permanentis,”  sic ), Calv. (altern., preferring this), Aretius, Grot. (expressly, alleging for it Daniel 6:26 , Theod., ὅτι αὐτός ἐστιν θεὸς ζῶν καὶ μένων εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας ), al.).