 4 .]  unto (this  εἰς , as the former one, depends on ἀναγεννήσας , and is coordinate to the other. It introduces the objective end to which our hope is directed. “Quamdiu peregrinamur, habemus spem vivam: finita peregrinatione, ζῶσα ἐλπίς fit κληρονομία τῆς ἐπαγγελίας .” Steinmeyer, in Wies.)  an inheritance (“By  κληρονομία (cf. ch. 1 Peter 3:7 ; 1Pe 3:9 ) is imported the whole fulness of blessings not seen, of which the Christian as a child of God ( ἀναγενν . 1Pe 1:3 ) has expectation, cf. Galatians 4:7 . This inheritance is more closely defined, as σωτηρία (1 Peter 1:5 ; 1Pe 1:9 ), as χάρις , χάρις ζωῆς (1 Peter 1:13 ; ch. 1Pe 3:7 ), as δόξα (ch. 1Pe 5:1 ), as ἀμαράντινος τῆς δόξης στέφανος (ch. 1Pe 5:4 ), or ἡ αἰώνιος τοῦ θεοῦ δόξα (ch. 1Pe 5:10 ). The simplest expression for that, which the Apostle calls κληρονομία , is on the one side the χάρις ζωῆς with its δόξα , on the other the σωτηρία ψυχῶν . This  κληρονομία is the full possession of that, which was promised to Abraham and all believers (Genesis 12:3 , see Galatians 3:6 ff.), an inheritance, as much higher than that which fell to the children of Israel in the possession of Canaan, as the sonship of the regenerate, who have already received the ἐπαγγελία τοῦ πνεύματος διὰ τῆς πίστεως as a pledge of their κληρονομία , is higher than the sonship of Israel: cf. Galatians 3:18 ; Galatians 3:29 ; 1 Corinthians 6:9 ; Ephesians 5:5 ; Hebrews 9:15 ; and De Wette, h. l.” Wiesinger)  incorruptible (not liable to φθορά , decay. “We are here  inter peritura perituri : the things are passing which we enjoy, and we are passing who enjoy them.… When death comes, that removes a man out of all his possessions to give place to another: therefore are these inheritances decaying and dying in relation to us, because we decay and die: and when a man dies, his inheritances, and honours, and all things here, are at an end in respect of him: yea we may say the world ends to him.” Leighton),  undefiled (Leighton quotes from Jerome, “Dives aut iniquus est, aut iniqui hæres.” “All possessions here are defiled and stained with many defects and failings: still somewhat wanting, some damp on them, or crack in them: fair houses, but sad cares flying about the gilded and ceiled roofs: stately and soft beds and a full table, but a sickly body and queasy stomach.… All possessions are stained with sin, either in acquiring or using them, and therefore they are called mammon of unrighteousness, Luk 16:9 ”)  and unfading (in its beauty; which in all earthly things is passing and soon withered: see 1 Peter 1:24 . So that our inheritance is glorious in these three respects: it is in  substance , incorruptible: in  purity , undefiled: in  beauty , unfading. “Amat Petrus synonyma cumulata: 1 Peter 1:7-8 ; 1 Peter 1:19 ; cap. 1 Peter 5:10 .” Bengel),  reserved (= ἀποκειμένην , laid up, Col 1:5 )  in the heavens (“ut sciamus eam esse extra periculum,” Calv.: also reflecting back on the epithets above, because all that is  there is incorruptible and undefiled and unfading. The Greek interpreters make these words an argument against the millenarians: so Œc., εἰ ἐν οὐρανοῖς ἡ κληρονομία , μυθώδης ἡ χιλιοέτης ἀποκατάστασις . See also in Cramer’s Catena)  for (with a view to, see Rom 8:18 )  you (turning again to his readers from the general statement of 1Pe 1:3 ),