 2 .]  according to (i. e.  in pursuance of . The local meaning of  κατά with an accus., ‘along (down) the direction of,’ gives at once the derived meaning here.  κατὰ πρόγ . κ . τ . λ . follows ἐκλεκτοῖς , the emphatic position of the predicative epithet having as it were left its sound yet ringing in the ear, so that this epexegesis of it, though unusual, does not occasion any difficulty. Œc., as also Cyr.-alex. de Recta Fide (Huther), joins κατὰ πρόλν . with ἀπόστολος : which can hardly be)  foreknowledge (not merely “prævisio fidei,” as Calov., but nearly synonymous with βουλή or προορισμός . It may be, and often is, this “prævisio” merely: see the word  πρόγνωσις in Suicer, and Origen in Cramer’s Catena: but can hardly be this here, where it is made distinctly to be the moving cause of election. See again on 1 Peter 1:20 , where the signification “fore-decreed” is necessary to the context. “The difference between προγιγνώσκειν and προορίζειν is this, that in the former idea, the fact of knowledge is especially put forward, seeing that all God’s decrees rest on the ground of His omniscience.” Huther. “Eligendos facit Deus, non invenit,” is an important remark of Augustine. Cf. Hofmann’s Schriftbeweis, i. 228 ff.)  of God the Father (thus indicated, as leading on to the great mystery of the Holy Trinity in the work of our salvation)  in (not “  through ,” as E. V.: the  κατά betokens the origin, and enduring pattern after which,  ἐν , the conditional and abiding element in which, and  εἰς , the result for which. So that  ἐν is not = εἰς τὸ εἶναι ἐν as De Wette)  sanctification (reff.)  of the Spirit (gen. subjective, or rather  efficient , the Spirit being the worker of the sanctification:  πνεύματος , not, as Beza, “vel spiritus sanctus, vel anima, quæ sanctificatur”)  unto (  result as regards us the fruit which we are to bring forth, and the state into which we are to be brought)  obedience (absolutely, Christian obedience, the obedience of faith, as in 1 Peter 1:14 ; see reff.: not to be taken with Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , which belongs closely to αἵματος )  and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ (i. e. admission into and standing in that covenant, whose atoning medium is Christ’s blood, and mode of application, the sprinkling of that blood on the heart by faith. The allusion is to Exodus 24:8 , where the covenant was inaugurated by sprinkling the blood on the people. This, as Huther remarks, was the only occasion on which the blood was thus sprinkled on  persons : for on the great day of atonement, only the sacred vessels were thus sprinkled. So also in Hebrews 9:13 . But we need not confine the virtue of the sprinkling to  admission into the covenant. Doubtless its  purifying power , especially as connected with ὑπακοή , is also in the mind of the Apostle. And thus Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 305: maintaining that the Death of Christ is not only,  as looking back on the past , a propitiation for sin, thereby removing the obstacle which stood in the way of God’s gracious purpose towards man, but also,  looking forward to the future , a capacitating of us for the participation in God’s salvation: just as Israel, sin having been atoned for by the sacrifice itself, was admitted into the actual state of reconciliation by the sprinkling on them of the sacrificial blood.
	The gen.  αἵματος is that of the object, or material with which: cf. Hebrews 9:21 , αἵματι ἐράντισεν .
	“By this description of the readers, an anticipation is given of the whole train of thought in the Epistle: the aim of which is to impress the blessed certainty of salvation, and with that, the obligations incurred by receiving God’s gift.” Harless):  grace and peace be multiplied onto you (so, but more fully, in reff. 2 Pet. and Jude. “Pax a gratia distinguitur, tanquam fructus et effectus a sua causa.” Gerhard. “Pax vestra multiplicetur” is quoted as a Rabbinical salutation by Wetstein and Schöttgen).