37-40. All that, c.—This
	comprehensive and very grand passage is expressed with a peculiar
	artistic precision. The opening general statement ( :-) consists of two members: (1) "ALL
	THAT THE FATHER
	GIVETH ME SHALL COME TO ME"—that
	is, "Though ye, as I told you, have no faith in Me, My errand
	into the world shall in no wise be defeated for all that the Father
	giveth Me shall infallibly come to Me." Observe, what is given
	Him by the Father is expressed in the singular number and
	neuter gender—literally, "everything"; while those
	who come to Him are put in the masculine gender and
	singular number—"every one." The whole mass,
	so to speak, is gifted by the Father to the Son as a unity,
	which the Son evolves, one by one, in the execution of His trust. So
	John 17:2, "that He should
	give eternal life to all that which Thou hast given Him"
	[BENGEL]. This "shall"
	expresses the glorious certainty of it, the Father being
	pledged to see to it that the gift be no empty mockery. (2) "AND
	HIM THAT COMETH TO MEI WILL
	IN NO WISE CAST OUT." As the former was the divine,
	this is just the human side of the same thing. True, the
	"coming" ones of the second clause are just the "given"
	ones of the first. But had our Lord merely said, "When those
	that have been given Me of My Father shall come to Me, I will receive
	them"—besides being very flat, the impression conveyed would
	have been quite different, sounding as if there were no other laws
	in operation, in the movement of sinners to Christ, but such as
	are wholly divine and inscrutable to us; whereas,
	though He does speak of it as a sublime certainty which men's
	refusals cannot frustrate, He speaks of that certainty as
	taking effect only by men's voluntary advances to Him and
	acceptance of Him—"Him that cometh to Me," "whosoever
	will," throwing the door wide open. Only it is not the simply
	willing, but the actually coming, whom He will not cast
	out; for the word here employed usually denotes arrival, as
	distinguished from the ordinary word, which rather expresses the act
	of coming (see John 8:42,
	Greek), [WEBSTER
	and WILKINSON]. "In
	no wise" is an emphatic negative, to meet the fears of the timid
	(as in Revelation 21:27, to meet the
	presumption of the hardened). These, then, being the two members of
	the general opening statement, what follows is meant to take in both,