4. In the apostle's creed, the
	article as to THE CHURCH
	properly follows that as to THE
	HOLY GHOST.
	To the Trinity naturally is annexed the Church, as the house to its
	tenant, to God His temple, the state to its founder [AUGUSTINE,
	Enchiridion, c. 15]. There is yet to be a Church, not merely
	potentially, but actually catholic or world-wide; then the Church and
	the world will be co-extensive. Rome falls into inextricable error by
	setting up a mere man as a visible head, antedating that consummation
	which Christ, the true visible Head, at His appearing shall first
	realize. As the "SPIRIT"
	is mentioned here, so the "LORD"
	(Jesus), Ephesians 4:5, and "GOD
	the Father," Ephesians 4:6. Thus
	the Trinity is again set forth. 
	hope—here associated
	with "the Spirit," which is the "earnest of our
	inheritance" (Ephesians 1:13;
	Ephesians 1:14). As "faith"
	is mentioned, Ephesians 4:5, so "hope"
	here, and "love," Ephesians 4:2.
	The Holy Spirit, as the common higher principle of life (Ephesians 2:18;
	Ephesians 2:22), gives to the Church
	its true unity. Outward uniformity is as yet unattainable; but
	beginning by having one mind, we shall hereafter end by having "one
	body." The true "body" of Christ (all believers of
	every age) is already "one," as joined to the one Head. But
	its unity is as yet not visible, even as the Head is not visible; but
	it shall appear when He shall appear (John 17:21-23;
	Colossians 3:4). Meanwhile the rule is,
	"In essentials, unity; in doubtful questions, liberty; in all
	things, charity." There is more real unity where both go to
	heaven under different names than when with the same name one goes to
	heaven, the other to hell. Truth is the first thing: those who reach
	it, will at last reach unity, because truth is one; while
	those who seek unity as the first thing, may purchase it at the
	sacrifice of truth, and so of the soul itself. 
	of your calling—the one
	"hope" flowing from our "calling," is the
	element "IN"
	which we are "called" to live. Instead of privileged
	classes, as the Jews under the law, a unity of dispensation was
	henceforth to be the common privilege of Jew and Gentile alike.
	Spirituality, universality, and unity, were designed to
	characterize the Church; and it shall be so at last (Isaiah 2:2-4;
	Isaiah 11:9; Isaiah 11:13;
	Zephaniah 3:9; Zechariah 14:9).