9. The three last seals relate
	to the invisible, as the first four to the visible world; the fifth,
	to the martyrs who have died as believers; the sixth, to those who
	have died, or who shall be found at Christ's coming, unbelievers,
	namely, "the kings . . . great men . . . bondman . . . freeman";
	the seventh, to the silence in heaven. The scene changes from earth
	to heaven; so that interpretations which make these three last
	consecutive to the first four seals, are very doubtful. 
	I saw—in spirit. For
	souls are not naturally visible. 
	under the altar—As the
	blood of sacrificial victims slain on the altar was poured at the
	bottom of the altar, so the souls of those sacrificed for
	Christ's testimony are symbolically represented as under the
	altar, in heaven; for the life or animal soul is in the
	blood, and blood is often represented as crying for vengeance
	(Genesis 4:10). The altar in heaven,
	antitypical to the altar of sacrifice, is Christ crucified. As it is
	the altar that sanctifies the gift, so it is Christ alone who makes
	our obedience, and even our sacrifice of life for the truth,
	acceptable to God. The sacrificial altar was not in the sanctuary,
	but outside; so Christ's literal sacrifice and the figurative
	sacrifice of the martyrs took place, not in the heavenly sanctuary,
	but outside, here on earth. The only altar in heaven is that
	antitypical to the temple altar of incense. The blood of the martyrs
	cries from the earth under Christ's cross, whereon they may be
	considered virtually to have been sacrificed; their souls cry from
	under the altar of incense, which is Christ in heaven, by whom alone
	the incense of praise is accepted before God. They are under
	Christ, in His immediate presence, shut up unto Him in joyful eager
	expectancy until He shall come to raise the sleeping dead. Compare
	the language of 2 Maccabees 7:36 as indicating Jewish opinion
	on the subject. Our brethren who have now suffered a short pain are
	dead under (Greek) God's covenant of everlasting
	life. 
	testimony which they
	held—that is, which they bore, as committed to them to bear.
	Compare Revelation 12:17, "Have
	(same Greek as here) the testimony of Jesus."