Forgive. See on ch. Luke 3:3; James 5:15. Sins [αμαρτιας] . See on Matthew 1:21. Compare debts, Matthew 6:12. That is indebted. Matthew's debts appears here. Lead [εισενεγκης] . Rev. gives "bring us not," which, besides being a more accurate rendering of the word (eijv, into, ferw, to bear or bring), avoids the invidious hint of seducing or enticing which attaches to lead. James tells us that God does not tempt any man (i. 13); but the circumstances of a man's life often, indeed always, involve possibilities of temptation. A caution is written even over the door of God 's own house (Ecclesiastes 5:1). God also sends trials to prove and chasten us; but something may change the salutary power of trial into the corrupting power of evil solicitation; and that something, as James tells us (i. 14), is our own evil desire. God tempteth no man; but "every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed." We pray, therefore, "suffer us not to be drawn away by our own lusts : keep us out of the power of our own evil hearts. Thou knowest our frame, and rememberest that we are dust. Remember our weakness. What thou imposest we would not shun. What thou dost not impose, keep us from seeking. Forbid that our evil desire should convert our temptable condition into actual temptation. Keep us out of situations in which, so far as we can judge, it would be beyond our present strength to keep from sinning." It is not a coward's prayer. No man is a coward for being afraid of his own heart. It marks the highest quality of courage to know what to be afraid of and to fear it. To pray that God will not bring us within the possibility of temptation, would be to ignore our manhood, or to pray to be taken out of the world. But we may pray, and will surely pray, the more keenly conscious we become of the weakness of our nature, that God will not suffer the trials of life to become temptations to evil. Temptation. See on Matthew 6:13. THE PARABLE OF THE FRIEND AT MIDNIGHT, 5 - 9. Peculiar to Luke.