8. a new commandment—It was
	"old," in that Christians as such had heard it from
	the first; but "new" (Greek, "kaine,"
	not "nea": new and different from the old
	legal precept) in that it was first clearly promulgated with
	Christianity; though the inner spirit of the law was love
	even to enemies, yet it was enveloped in some bitter precepts which
	caused it to be temporarily almost unrecognized, till the Gospel
	came. Christianity first put love to brethren on the new
	and highest MOTIVE,
	instinctive love to Him who first loved us, constraining us to love
	all, even enemies, thereby walking in the steps of Him who loved us
	when enemies. So Jesus calls it "new," John 13:34;
	John 13:35, "Love one another
	as I have loved you" (the new motive); John 13:35- :. 
	which thing is true in him
	and in you—"In Christ all things are always true,
	and were so from the beginning; but in Christ and in us
	conjointly the commandment [the love of brethren] is then
	true when we acknowledge the truth which is in Him, and
	have the same flourishing in us" [BENGEL].
	ALFORD explains, "Which
	thing (the fact that the commandment is a new one) is true in
	Him and in you because the darkness is passing away, and the
	true light is now shining; that is, the commandment is a new one,
	and this is true both in the case of Christ and in the case of you;
	because in you the darkness is passing away, and in Him
	the true light is shining; therefore, on both accounts, the command
	is a new one: new as regards you, because you are newly come
	from darkness into light; new as regards Him, because He uttered it
	when He came into the world to lighten every man, and began that
	shining which even now continues." I prefer, as BENGEL,
	to explain, The new commandment finds its truth in its
	practical realization in the walk of Christians in union with
	Christ. Compare the use of "verily," John 13:35- :. John 4:42, "indeed";
	John 6:55. The repetition of
	"in" before "you," "in Him and in you,"
	not "in Him and you" implies that the love commandment
	finds its realization separately: first it did so "in
	Him," and then it does so "in us," in so far as we
	now "also walk even as He walked"; and yet it finds its
	realization also conjointly, by the two being united in one
	sentence, even as it is by virtue of the love commandment having been
	first fulfilled in Him, that it is also now fulfilled in
	us, through His Spirit in us: compare a similar case, John 6:55- :, "My Father and your Father"; by
	virtue of His being "My Father," He is also your
	Father. 
	darkness is past—rather,
	as in 1 John 2:17, "is
	passing away." It shall not be wholly "past" until
	"the Sun of righteousness" shall arise visibly; "the
	light is now shining" already, though but partially until
	the day bursts forth.