13, 14. All three classes are
	first addressed in the present. "I write"; then in the past
	(aorist) tense, "I wrote" (not "I have written";
	moreover, in the oldest manuscripts and versions, in the end of  :-, it is past, "I wrote," not as English Version,
	"I write"). Two classes, "fathers" and "young
	men," are addressed with the same words each time (except that
	the address to the young men has an addition expressing the
	source and means of their victory); but the "little sons"
	and "little children" are differently addressed. 
	have known—and do know:
	so the Greek perfect means. The "I wrote" refers not
	to a former Epistle, but to this Epistle. It was an idiom to put the
	past tense, regarding the time from the reader's point
	of view; when he should receive the Epistle the writing would be
	past. When he uses "I write," he speaks from his
	own point of view. 
	him that is
	from the beginning—Christ: "that which was from the
	beginning." 
	overcome—The fathers,
	appropriately to their age, are characterized by knowledge.
	The young men, appropriately to theirs, by activity in
	conflict. The fathers, too, have conquered; but now
	their active service is past, and they and the children alike
	are characterized by knowing (the fathers know Christ,
	"Him that was from the beginning"; the children know
	the Father). The first thing that the little children realize
	is that God is their Father; answering in the parallel clause
	to "little sons . . . your sins are forgiven you for His name's
	sake," the universal first privilege of all those
	really-dear sons of God. Thus this latter clause includes all,
	whereas the former clause refers to those more especially who are in
	the first stage of spiritual life, "little children."
	Of course, these can only know the Father as theirs through
	the Son (Matthew 11:27). It
	is beautiful to see how the fathers are characterized as
	reverting back to the first great truths of spiritual childhood, and
	the sum and ripest fruit of advanced experience, the knowledge of
	Him that was from the beginning (twice repeated, 1 John 2:13;
	1 John 2:14). Many of them had
	probably known Jesus in person, as well as by faith.