New [νεον] . See on Matthew 26:29. Compare Ephesians 5:24. Is renewed [ανακαινουμενον] . Rev., better, giving the force of the present participle, is being renewed : in process of continuous renewal. The word kainov new, which enters into the composition of the verb, gives the idea of quality. Compare 2 Corinthians 4:16, and the contrast in Ephesians 4:22. In knowledge [εις επιγνωσιν] . Rev., correctly, unto knowledge, the end to which the renewal tended. Compare Ephesians 4:13. After the image. Construe with renewed. Compare Ephesians 4:24, and see Genesis 1:26, Genesis 1:27. Where there is [οπου ενι] . Where, in the renewed condition; there is, better, as Rev., can be : eni strengthened from ejn in signifies not merely the fact but the impossibility : there is no room for. Greek, Jew, etc. Compare Galatians 3:28. National, ritual, intellectual, and social diversities are specified. The reference is probably shaped by the conditions of the Colossian church, where the form of error was partly Judaistic and ceremonial, insisting on circumcision; where the pretense of superior knowledge affected contempt for the rude barbarian, and where the distinction of master and slave had place as elsewhere. Circumcision. For the circumcised. So Romans 4:12; Ephesians 2:11; Philippians 3:3. Barbarian, Scythian. See on 1 Corinthians 14:11. The distinction is from the Greek and Roman point of view, where the line is drawn by culture, as between the Jew and the Greek it was drawn by religious privilege. From the former stand - point the Jew ranked as a barbarian. Scythian. "More barbarous than the barbarians" (Bengel). Hippocrates describes them as widely different from the rest of mankind, and like to nothing but themselves, and gives an absurd description of their physical peculiarities. Herodotus describes them as living in wagons, offering human sacrifices, scalping and sometimes flaying slain enemies, drinking their blood, and using their skulls for drinking - cups. When a king dies, one of his concubines is strangled and buried with him, and, at the close of a year, fifty of his attendants are strangled, disemboweled, mounted on dead horses, and left in a circle round his tomb. 203 The Scythians passed through Palestine on their road to Egypt, B. C. 600, and a trace of their invasion is supposed to have existed in the name Scythopolis, by which Beth Shean 204 was known in Christ 's time. Ezekiel apparently refers to them (xxxviii., 39.) under the name Gog, which reappears in Revelation. See on Revelation 20:8. Revelation 20:2 Revelation 20:5 Bowels of mercies [σπλαγχνα οικτιρμου] . See on 1 Peter 3:8; 2 Corinthians 1:3. Rev., a heart of compassion. Kindness [χρηστοτητα] . See on Romans 3:12. Meekness [πραυτητα] . See on Matthew 5:5. Long - suffering [μακροθυμιαν] . See on James 5:7.