 1 .]  I exhort (see reff.  παρακαλῶ , τὸ προτρέπω , ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πολύ . Thom.-Mag. in Ellic.)  you therefore (seeing that this is your calling: an inference from all the former part of the Epistle, as in Romans 12:1 ; but here perhaps also a resumption of τούτου χάριν of ch. Ephesians 3:1 ; Ephesians 3:14 , and thus carried back to the contents of ch. Ephesians 1:2 .),  the prisoner in the Lord (who am, as regards, and for the sake of the cause, of the Lord, a prisoner; so that my captivity is  in the Lord , as its element and sphere, and therefore to be regarded as an additional inducement to comply with my exhortation. “Num quicquid est Christi, etiamsi coram mundo sit ignominiosum, summo cum honore suscipiendum a vobis est.” Calv. τοῖς διὰ τὸν χριστὸν δεσμοῖς ἐναβρύνεται μᾶλλον ἢ βασιλεὺς διαδήματι . Thdrt. Beware of joining  ἐν κυρ  . with  παρακαλῶ , as in 2 Thessalonians 3:12 (see Eph 4:17 ), which the arrangement of the words here will not permit),  to walk worthily of the calling (see ch. Ephesians 1:18 , and note Romans 8:28 ; Rom 8:30 )  wherewith (see ch. Ephesians 1:6 . The attracted genitive may stand either for the dative ᾗ or the accusative ἥν . Both constructions are legitimate attractions: cf. for the dative, Xen. Cyr. v. 4. 39, ἤγετο δὲ καὶ τῶν ἑαυτοῦ τῶν τε πιστῶν , οἷς ἥδετο , κ . ὧν ἠπίστει πολλούς . ὧν , for ἐκείνων , οἷς ; and for the accusative, ch. Ephesians 1:6 , and Hom. II. χ . 649, τιμῆς ἧστέ μ ʼ ἔοικε τετιμῆσθαι . De W. denies the legitimacy of  κλῆσιν καλεῖν ; but Raphel produces from Arrian, Epict. p. 122, καταισχύνειν τὴν κλῆσιν ἣν κέκληκεν )  ye were called, with (not ‘  in ,’ as Conyb., which, besides not expressing  μετά , the association of certain dispositions to an act, confuses the ἐν which follows)  all (see on ch. Eph 1:8 )  lowliness (read by all means Trench’s essay on  ταπεινοφροσύνη and  πραότης , in his N. T. Synonymes (xlii.). I can only extract one sentence here, to put the reader on his guard: “Chrys. is in fact bringing in pride again under the disguise of humility, when he characterizes it as a making of ourselves small  when we are great (  ταπεινοφροσύνη τοῦτό ἐστιν , ὅταν τις μέγας ὤν , ἑαυτὸν ταπεινοῖ : and he repeats this often: see Suicer, Thes. s. v.): it is rather the esteeming ourselves small,  inasmuch as we are so : the thinking truly, and because truly, lowlily of ourselves”)  and meekness (before God, accepting His dealings in humility, and before men, as God’s instruments, 2 Samuel 16:11 : resting therefore on ταπεινοφρ . as its foundation. See Trench, as above),  with long-suffering (  μακροθυμία consists in not taking swift vengeance, but leaving to an offender a place for repentance. From this, its proper meaning, it is easily further generalized to forbearance under all circumstances of provocation. Some, as Est., Harl., Olsh., al., join these words with  ἀνεχόμενοι . But thus (1) we should have an emphatic tautology for how could the  ἀνέχεσθαι be otherwise than  μετὰ μακροθυμίας ? and (2) the parallelism, μετὰ πάσης ταπ . κ . πραΰτ ., μετ . μακρ ., would be destroyed. Still less should we, with Thdrt., Œc., and Bengel, make all one sentence from μετὰ πάσ . to ἀγάπ .: for thus (Mey.) we should lose the gradual transition from the general ἀξίως περιπ . τ . κλ . to the special ἀνεχ . ἀλλ .),  forbearing (see reff. and Romans 2:4 ; on the nom. part., see ch. Eph 3:18 )  one another in love (it is very unnatural, as Lachm. and Olsh. have done, to join ἐν ἀγ . with σπουδάζοντες , making thereby an exceedingly clumsy clause of the following),  earnestly striving (reff.)  to maintain the unity of the Spirit (that unity, in which God’s Holy Spirit in the Church τοὺς γένει κ . τρόποις διαφόροις διεστηκότας ἑνοῖ , as Chr.: not  animorum inter vos conjunctionem , as Est., and so Ambr., Anselm, Erasm., Calv., al. The genitive is  in fact a possessive  the Spirit’s unity , that unity which the Spirit brings about, ἣν τὸ πν . ἔδωκων ἡμῖν , Thl.)  in (united together by:  within )  the bond of peace (again Lachm. joins the qualifying clause to the following sentence: here again most unnaturally, both as regards what has preceded, and the general truths which are afterwards enounced: see below.
	The σύνδ .  is εἰρήνη , not  that which brings about εἰρήνη , ‘vinculum quo pax retinetur, id est,  amor .’ Beng. So Thl., Rück., Harl., Stier. Colossians 3:14 , which is quoted to support this meaning, is not applicable, because love there is  expressly named , whereas here it certainly would not occur to any reader, especially after ἐν ἀγάπῃ has just occurred. The genitive of apposition is the simplest peace binds together the Church as a condition and symbol of that inner unity which is only wrought by the indwelling Spirit of God).