 23 .]  and undergo renewal (both should be marked, the gradual process implied in the  present , and the  passive character of the verb. Of this latter there can be no doubt: the middle ἀνανεοῦσθαι having always an active force: so we have ἀνανεοῦσθαι τ . συμμαχίαν , Polyb. xxiii. 1. 5: see many more examples in the Lex. Polybianum, and in Harl.’s note here: and we have even, in Autonin. iv. 3 (Harl.), ἀνανέου σεαυτόν . Stier’s arguments in favour of the middle sense seem to me to be misplaced.  ἐνδύσασθαι is middle, but that refers to a direct definite reflexive act; whereas the process here insisted on is one carried on by the Spirit of God, not by themselves. And it is not to the purpose to ask, as Stier does, ‘How can the Apostle say and testify by way of exhortation, that they should  be renewed as they  ought to walk?’ for we have perpetually this seeming paradox, of  God’s work encouraged or checked by man’s cooperation or counteraction. The distinction between  ἀνακαίνωσις and  ἀνανέωσις is not (as Olsh.) beside the purpose here, but important. The reference in  καινός (  novus ) to the objective is prominent, in  νέος (  recens ) to the subjective. The  καινός is used as opposed to the former self; the  νέος , as regards the new nature and growth in it: cf. Colossians 3:10 , τὸν νέον , τὸν ἀνακαινούμενον . Thus in Rom 12:2 it would not be said μεταμορφ . τῇ  ἀνανεώσει τ . νοός , because it is not by nor in the ἀνανέωσις , but by or in the ἀνακαίνωσις , that the μεταμορφ . takes place. Whereas here, where a process of growing up in the state of ἀνακαίνωσις is in question, ἀνανεοῦσθαι is properly used.  ἀνακαινοῦσθαι is more ‘renewal from the age of the old man;’  ἀνανεοῦσθαι , ‘renewal in the youth of the new man.’ See Tittmann, Syn. p. 60 ff.)  by (though (see more below) the expression  τῷ πν  .   τοῦ νοὸς ὑμ  . stands contrasted with ἐν ματαιότητι τοῦ νοὸς αὐτῶν , Ephesians 4:17 , yet the omission of ἐν here serves to mark that not merely the sphere in which, but the agency by which, is now adduced) the  Spirit of  your (emphatic)  mind (the expression is unusual, and can only be understood by reference to the N. T. meaning of  πνεῦμα , as applied to men. First, it is clearly here not exclusively nor properly ‘the Holy Spirit of God,’ because it is called τὸ πν .  τοῦ νοὸς ὑμῶν . It is a  πνεῦμα , in some sense belonging to, not merely indwelling in,  ὑμεῖς . The fact is, that in the N. T. the πνεῦμα of man is only then used ‘sensu proprio,’ as worthy of its place and governing functions, when it is one Spirit with the Lord. We read of no πνεῦμα παλαιόν : the πνευματικός is necessarily a man dwelt in by the Spirit of God: the ψυχικός is the ‘animal’ man led by the ψυχή , and πνεῦμα μὴ ἔχων , Jude 1:19 . Thus then the disciples of Christ are ἀνανεούμενοι , undergoing a process of renewal in the life of God, by the agency of the  πνεῦμα of their minds, the restored and divinely-informed leading principle of their  νοῦς , just as the children of the world are walking in the ματαιότης of  their minds.  νοῦς , see above, Eph 4:17 ),