 6 .]  one God (the unity is here consummated in its central Object: ‘hoc est præcipuum, quia inde manant reliqua omnia,’ Calv. But we must not miss the distinct witness to the doctrine of the Holy Trinity in these verses: going upwards, we have 1st, the One Spirit dwelling in the one body: 2nd, the One Lord appropriated by faith and professed in baptism: 3rd, One God and Father supreme, in whom all find their end and object)  and Father of all (masculine: ‘of all within the Church,’ for so is clearly the  primary meaning, where he is speaking distinctly of the Church: of all (Mey.) who have the υἱοθεσία . But it can hardly be doubted, that there is a further reference to the universal Father-ship of all men which indeed the Church only inherits in its fulness, others having fallen out of it by sin, but which nevertheless is just as absolutely true),  who is over all (men, primarily; and from the following, men only, in this place. He is over all, in his  sovereignty as the FATHER),  and through all (men: in the co-extensiveness of Redemption by the Son with the whole nature of man: see on Eph 4:10 below, and ch. Eph 2:20-21 )  and in all (men: by the indwelling of the Spirit, see ch. Ephesians 2:22 . So that I cannot but recognize, in these three carefully chosen expressions, a distinct allusion again to the Three Persons of the blessed Trinity. All these are the work of the Father: it is He who in direct sovereignty is over all He who is glorified in the filling of all things by the Son: He who is revealed by the witness of the indwelling Spirit. Many Commentators deny such a reference. Almost all agree in  ἐν πᾶσιν representing the indwelling of the Spirit: the  διὰ πάντων has been the principal stumbling-block: and is variously interpreted: by some, of God’s Providence, τουτέστιν , ὁ προνοῶν καὶ διοικῶν , Chrys., al.: by others, of His pervading presence by the Spirit, ‘spiritu sanctificationis diffusus est per omnia ecclesiæ membra,’ Calv.: by others, to the creation by the Son, ‘per quem omnia facta sunt’ (Aquin. in Ellic.): but this seems to be a conversion of διὰ πάντων into δι ʼ οὗ πάντες , as indeed Olsh. expressly does, ‘  als Werfzeug¸ durch das die sind .’ Irenæus, v. 18. 2, p. 315, gives the meaning thus, adopting the Trinitarian reference, but taking the πάντων both times as  neuter , and reading ἐν πᾶσιν ἡμῖν : ‘super omnia quidem Pater, et ipse est caput Christi: per omnia autem verbum, et ipse est caput ecclesiæ: in omnibus autem nobis Spiritus, et ipse est aqua viva,’ &c.).