 11 .] Resumption of the subject the diversity of gifts, all bestowed by Him, as a motive to unity.  And HE (emphatic; ‘it is He, that’)  gave (not for ἔθετο , any more than in ch. Ephesians 1:22 :  the gifts which He gave to His Church are now enumerated. “The idea is, that the men who filled the office, no less than the office itself, were a divine gift.” Eadie)  some as Apostles (see 1 Corinthians 12:28 , and note; and a good enumeration of the essentials of an Apostle, in Eadie’s note here),  some as prophets (see on 1 Corinthians 12:10 : and cf. ch. Ephesians 2:20 ; Ephesians 3:5 , notes),  some as evangelists (not in the narrower sense of the word, writers of gospels, but in the wider sense, of itinerant preachers, usually sent on a special mission: οἱ μὴ περιϊόντες πανταχοῦ , ἀλλ ʼ εὐαγγελιζόμενοι μόνον , ὡς Πρίσκιλλα κ . Ἀκύλας . Chr. See note on Act 21:8 ),  some as pastors and teachers (from these latter not being distinguished from the pastors by the τοὺς δέ , it would seem that the two offices were held by the same persons. The figure in  ποιμένες , if to be pressed, would imply that they were entrusted with some special flock, which they tended, καθήμενοι καὶ περὶ ἕνα τόπον ἠσχολημένοι , as Chr.; and then the διδασκαλία would necessarily form a chief part of their work. If this view be correct, this last class includes all the stationary officers of particular Churches),  in order to (ultimate aim of these offices, see below)  the perfecting of the saints, for (immediate object, see below) (  the )  work of (  the )  ministry (of διάκονοι in God’s Church. The articles give completeness in English, but do not affect the sense),  for building up of the body of Christ (the relation of these three clauses has been disputed. Chr., al., regard them as parallel: ἕκαστος οἰκοδομεῖ , ἕκαστος καταρτίζει , ἕκαστος διακονεῖ : but this is to confound the distinct prepositions,  πρός and  εἰς , after the unsupported notion that St. Paul uses prepositions almost indifferently. Others, as De W., regard  εἰς  …   εἰς as dependent on  πρός , and thus are obliged to give to διακονία a wider sense (  genus omnium functionum in ecclesia ) than it will bear. The best way certainly seems to be, with Mey. and Ellic., to regard  πρός as the ultimate end,  εἰς as the immediate use, as in Romans 15:2 , ἕκαστος ἡμῶν τῷ πλησίον ἀρεσκέτω  εἰς τὸ ἀγαθὸν  πρὸς οἰκοδομήν ),  until (marks the duration of the offices of the ministry)  we (being thus κατηρτισμένοι by virtue of the ἔργον διακονίας and the οἰκοδομή )  arrive (see reff.: no sense of ‘meeting,’ but simply of ‘attaining.’ Ellicott well remarks, that we must be careful of applying to later Greek the canons of the grammarians respecting the omission of ἄν , as giving  an air of less uncertainty to subjunctives in such constructions as this; and he adds, “the use of the subjunctive (the mood of conditioned but objective possibility), not future (as Chrys.), shews that the  καταντᾶν is represented, not only as the eventual, but as the expected and contemplated result of the  ἔδωκεν ”),  all of us (Christians, Jews as well as Gentiles: first person, because he himself was among the number. The article brings out the πάντες , as belonging to one class),  at the unity of the faith (“How so? have not all Christians the same faith?… No doubt they have, as regards its substance, but not as regards clearness and purity; because the object of faith may be diversely  known , and knowledge has ever such a powerful influence on faith. Therefore he adds to this unity of faith καὶ τῆς ἐπιγνώσεως κ . τ . λ .: true and full unity of faith is then found, when all thoroughly know Christ, the object of faith, alike, and that in His highest dignity as the Son of God.” De Wette)  and of the knowledge (further result of the faith, ch. Ephesians 3:17 ; Eph 3:19 ; 2Pe 1:5 )  of the Son of God (this objective genitive belongs to both  τῆς πίστεως and τῆς ἐπιγνώσεως ),  at a perfect man (an awkwardness is given by the coupling of an abstract (  εἰς ἑνότητα ) to a concrete (  εἰς ἄνδρα τέλειον ). The singular not only denotes unity (Beza), but refers to the summation of us all in the one perfect Man Christ Jesus. The maturity of the ἀνὴρ τέλειος is contrasted with the νηπιότης which follows. Among curiosities of exegesis may be adduced that which Aug. mentions, de Civ. Dei xxii. 17, vol. vii. p. 778: “Nonnulli, propter hoc quod dictum est, Ephesians 4:13 , nec in sexu fœmineo resurrecturas fœminas credunt, sed in virili omnes aiunt”)  to the measure of the stature (or, ‘  age? ’ this is doubtful. The similitude in ἄνδρα τέλειον seems to be derived from  age : that in Ephesians 4:16 , from  stature . The fact seems to be, that  ἡλικία is a comprehensive word, including both ideas answering to the German ‘  Erwachsenheit ,’ but having no corresponding word in our language. We have μέτρον ἥβης in Hom. Il. λ . 225. Od. λ . 317, σ . 217. The expression itself occurs in Lucian, Imag. 7 (Wetst.), τῆς ἡλικίας δὲ τὸ μέτρον , ἡλίκον ἂν γένοιτο · κατὰ τὴν ἐν Κνίδῳ ἐκείνην μάλιστα … μεμετρήσθω , and Philostratus, vit. Sophist. p. 543, τὸ δὲ μέτρον τῆς ἡλικίας ταῖς μὲν ἄλλαις ἐπιστήμαις γήρως ἀρχή . Clearly, none of these passages settles the question. In Homer, the meaning is ‘the measure of youth,’ the size and ripeness of youth: in Lucian, as decidedly ‘  the measure of the stature ,’ as in Philostr., ‘  the ripeness of manly age .’ The balance must here be inclined by the prevalence of the image of growth and extension, which can hardly be denied as pervading the passage)  of the fulness of Christ (see note on ch. Ephesians 1:23 ; Ephesians 3:19 . χρ . is a genitive subjective: the fulness which Christ has: ‘  Christ’s fulness .’ Cf. Gal 4:19 ),  that (apparently  another , and subordinate,  aim of the bestowal of gifts on the church is here adduced. For we cannot  go forward from the finished growth of Ephesians 4:13 , and say that  its object is ἵνα μηκ . ὦμεν νήπιοι , but must go back again to the growth itself and its purpose; that purpose being mainly the terminal one of Ephesians 4:13 , and subordinately the intermediate one of our Ephesians 4:14 . See Meyer’s note)  we be no more (having been so once: τὸ μηκέτι δείκνυσι πάλαι τοῦτο παθόντας . Chr.)  children, tossed (like waves: see James 1:6 : Jos. Antt. ix.11. 3, ἔσται Νινευὴ κολυμβήθρα ὕδατος κινουμένη , οὕτως κ . ὁ δῆμος ἅπας ταρασσόμενος κ . κλυδωνιζόμενος οἰχήσεται φεύγων )  and borne about by every wind of teaching ( τῇ τροπῇ ἐμμένων καὶ ἀνέμους ἐκάλεσε τὰς διαφόρους διδασκαλίας . Thl. Wetst. quotes from Plut. de Audiend. Poetis, p. 28 D, μὴ παντὶ λόγῳ πλάγιον , ὥσπερ πνεύματι , παραδιδοὺς ἑαυτόν . The article before  διδασκαλίας gives a greater definiteness to the abstract word, but cannot be expressed in English. So ἅπαξ προσουρήσαντα τῇ τραγῳδίᾳ , Aristoph. Ran. 95) in (elemental: “the evil atmosphere, as it were, in which the varying currents of doctrine exist and exert their force.” Ellic. This is better than  instrumental , which, as we have just had παντὶ ἀνέμῳ , would be a repetition)  the sleight (‘  dice-playing ,’ from κύβος . The word, as well as κυβεύω , was naturally and constantly used to signify ‘entrapping by deceit:’ κυβείαν τὴν πανουργίαν καλεῖ · πεποίηται δὲ ἀπὸ κύβων τὸ ὄνομα · ἴδιον δὲ τῶν κυβευόντων , τὸ τῇδε κἀκεῖσε μεταφέρειν τὰς ψήφους , καὶ πανούργως τοῦτο ποιεῖν . Thdrt. See examples in Wetst. The word was borrowed by the. Rabbinical writers, and used in this sense: see Schöttg. h. l.)  of men (as contrasted with τοῦ χριστοῦ , Eph 4:13 ),  in craftiness (reff.)  furthering (tending or working towards: or perhaps, but not so well,  after, according to , gemäss)  the system (see reff. and especially ch. Ephesians 6:11 , note, and Chr.’s explanation)  of error (not,  deceit , though in fact the sense is so:  πλάνη , even in the passages generally alleged for this active meaning, is best taken as ‘error.’ The genitive πλάνης is subjective the plans are those which error adopts.  τῆς πλ  . , as τῆς διδασκαλίας : see above),