 8 .]  Wherefore (‘quæ cum ita sint:’ viz. the gift bestowed by Christ on different men according to measure)  He (viz. God, whose word the Scriptures are. See reff. and notes: not merely ‘it,’ es heisst, as De W. al.: nor, ἡ γραφή : had it been the subject, it must have been expressed, as in Romans 4:3 ; Rom 9:17 al.)  says (viz. in Psalms 68:18 , see below: not, in some Christian hymn, as Flatt and Storr, which would not agree with λέγει , nor with the treatment of the citation, which is plainly regarded as carrying the weight of Scripture. With the question as to the occasion and intent of that Psalm, we are not here concerned. It is a song of triumph, as Ephesians 4:1 (cf. Num 10:35 ) shews, at some bringing up of the ark to the hill of Zion. It is  therefore a Messianic Psalm. Every part of that ark, every stone of that hill, was full of spiritual meaning. Every note struck on the lyres of the sweet singers of Israel, is but part of a chord, deep and world-wide, sounding from the golden harps of redemption. The partial triumphs of David and Solomon only prefigured as in a prophetic mirror the universal and eternal triumph of the Incarnate Son of God. Those who do not understand this, have yet their first lesson in the O. T. to learn. With this caution let us approach the difficulties of the citation in detail)  He ascended up on high (viz. Christ, at His Ascension: not ‘  having ascended:’ the aorist participle denotes an action not preceding, but parallel to, that expressed in the finite verb which it accompanies: see Bernhardy, Synt. p. 383. The ascending in the Psalm is that of God, whose presence was symbolized by the ark, to Zion. The Apostle changes the words from the 2nd person to the 3rd; the  address asserting a  fact , which fact he cites),  he led captive a captivity (i.e. ‘those who  suffer captivity:’ a troop of captives: such is the constant usage of the abstract αἰχμαλωσία for the concrete in LXX: cf. reff.: and it is never put for  captivatores , ‘those who  cause captivity,’ as some would interpret it. In the Psalm, these would be, the captives from the then war, whatever it was: in the interpretation, they were God’s enemies, Satan and his hosts, as Chr., ποίαν αἰχμαλωσίαν φησί ; τὴν τοῦ διαβόλου . αἰχμάλωτον τὸν τύραννον ἔλαβε , τὸν διάβολον καὶ τὸν θάνατον καὶ τὴν ἀρὰν καὶ τὴν ἁμαρτίαν ,  he gave gifts to mankind (Heb.: לָקַחְתָּ מַתָּנוֹת בָּאָדָם , LXX, ἔλαβες δόματα ἐν ἀνθρώπῳ (- ποις [ [8] ] F [A def.]). The original meaning is obscure. There seems to be no necessity to  argue for a sense of  ἔλαβες ‘thou receivedst in order to give;’ as the qualifying  ἐν ἀνθρώποις will shew for what purpose, in what capacity, the receipt took place. But certainly such a sense of לָקַח seems to be substantiated: see Eadie’s note here, and his examples, viz. Genesis 15:9 ; Genesis 18:5 (where the sense is very marked, E. V. ‘I will fetch’), Genesis 27:13 (ib. ‘fetch me them’), Genesis 42:16 , Exodus 27:20 (‘that they bring thee’), 1 Kings 17:10 (‘fetch me,’ λαβὲ δή μοι ), al. Then, what is בָּאָדָם ? First, אָדָם is clearly used in a collective sense: we have Jeremiah 32:20 , יִשְׂרָאֵל וְאָדָם , ‘Israel and the rest of mankind,’ see also Isa 43:4 al. In Proverbs 23:28 , we have בְּאָדָם used for ‘inter homines,’ which is evidently its simplest meaning. If then we render here, ‘hast taken gifts among men,’ hast, as a victor, surrounded by thy victorious hosts, brought gifts home, spoils of the enemy, the result of such reception of gifts would be naturally stated as the distribution of them among such hosts, and the people, as indeed Eph 4:12 of the Psalm has already stated. And so the Chaldee paraphrast (and Syr. and Arabic vss.: but their testimony, as Christian, is little worth) understood the words, interpreting the passage  of Moses (which does not invalidate his testimony: against Harl.): ‘thou hast given gifts to the sons of men.’ The literature of the passage may be seen in De W. and Meyer: and more at length in Stier, Eadie, and Harless. To give even a synopsis of it here would far exceed our limits).
	 [8] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .