 32 .]  but be ye (it is very difficult to mark the distinction between γίνεσθε and ἐστέ in a translation.  Become ye (Ellic.) is certainly too far off the time present;  be ye , too immediately belonging to it. The difficulty is best seen in such a command as that in John 20:27 , μὴ γίνου ἄπιστος ἀλλὰ πιστός )  towards one another kind (see note, Gal 5:22 ),  tender-hearted (“  εὔσπλ  . profanis animosum, fortem, cordatum notat (see Eurip. Rhes. 192). At res ipsa docet h. l. esse, misericordem, benignum (ref.). In testament. xii. patriarch. p. 644, de Deo dicitur: ἐλεήμων ἐστὶ καὶ εὔσπλαγχνος , ibid. paulo post; piis ἴασις κ . εὐσπλαγχνία , ‘  salus et misericordia futura ’ dicitur, ibid. p. 641, ἔχετε εὐσπλαγχνίαν κατὰ παντὸς ἀνθρώπου .” Kypke. So also in the Man 1:6 , εὔσπλαγχνος , μακρόθυμος κ . πολυέλεος ; see also the parallel, Col 3:12 ),  forgiving (see Luke 7:42 . Bengel notices that the three,  χρηστοί ,  εὔσπλαγχνοι ,  χαριζόμενοι ἑαυτοῖς , are opposed respectively to  πικρία ,  θυμός , and  ὀργή )  each other (this idiom is found in classical Greek καθ ʼ αὑτοῖν δικρατεῖς λόγχας στήσαντ ʼ ἔχετον κοινοῦ θανάτου μέρος ἄμφω , Soph. Antig. 145. See Matthiæ, Gr. § 489. See remarks on its especial propriety as distinguished from ἀλλήλοις , on ref. Col.),  even as (argument from His example whom we ought to resemble also from the mingled motives of justice and gratitude, as Matthew 18:33 , οὐκ ἔδει καί σε ἐλεῆσαι τὸν σύνδουλόν σου , ὡς κἀγώ σε ἠλέησα ;)  God in Christ (not ‘  for Christ’s sake ,’ as E. V., see 2 Corinthians 5:19-20 . God IN Christ, manifested in Him, in all He has done, and suffered: Christ is the sphere, the conditional element in which this act took place. Chrys. appears to take ἐν as ‘  at the cost of ,’ as (?) Joshua 6:26 ; Matthew 17:21 : for he says, ἵνα σοι συγγνῷ , τὸν υἱὸν ἔθυσε )  forgave you (not ‘  has forgiven ’ ( κεχάρισται ), as E. V. It is the historical fact of Christ once for all putting away sin by the sacrifice of Himself, which is alluded to. So that we are not 1) to attempt to change the meaning into a future (“even as thou, Lord, for Christ’s sake, hast promised to forgive us.” Family Prayers by Bishop Blomfield, p. 43): nor 2) to render  χαριζόμενοι and  ἐχαρίσατο , with Erasmus, ‘  largientes ’ and ‘  largitus est ,’ a meaning clearly at variance with the context).