 4 .] Lachm., joining  ἓν σῶμα κ  .  τ  .  λ  . as far as  ἐν πᾶσιν , with what has gone before, makes these words hortatory: ‘as one Body and one Spirit, even as, &c.’ Certainly the reference to ἡ κλῆσις ὑμῶν seems to tell for this. But, on the other hand, it is very unlikely that the Apostle should thus use ἓν σῶμα and ἓν πνεῦμα , and then go on in the same strain, but with a different reference. I therefore prefer the common punctuation and rendering. (  There is ) (better than ‘  ye are ,’ which will not apply to the following parallel clauses. The assertion of the unity of the Church, and of our Lord in all His operations and ordinances, springs immediately out of the last exhortation, as following it up to its great primal ground in the verities of God. To suppose it connected by a γάρ understood (Eadie) is to destroy the force and vividness with which the great central truth is at once introduced without preface)  one Body (reff.: viz. Christ’s mystical Body. τί δ ʼ ἔστιν , ἓν σῶμα ; οἱ πανταχοῦ τῆς οἰκουμένης πιστοί , καὶ ὄντες κ . γενόμενοι κ . ἐσόμενοι . πάλιν καὶ οἱ πρὸ τῆς τοῦ χριστοῦ παρουσίας εὐηρεστηκότες , ἓν σῶμά εἰσι . Chrys. But these last hardly  sensu proprio here)  and one Spirit (viz. the Holy Spirit, who dwells in, and vivifies, and rules that one body: see ch. Ephesians 2:18 ; Ephesians 2:22 ; 1Co 12:13 al.: not as Chrys., ἓν πν . καλῶς εἶπε , δεικνὺς ὅτι ἀπὸ τοῦ ἑνὸς σώματος ἓν πνεῦμα ἔσται , ἢ ὅτι ἐστὶ μὲν σῶμα εἶναι ἕν , οὐχ ἓν δὲ πνεῦμα · ὡς ἂν εἴ τις καὶ αἱρετικῶν φίλος εἴη · ἢ ὅτι ἀπ ʼ ἐκείνου δυσωπεῖ , τουτέστιν , οἱ ἓν πνεῦμα λαβόντες , καὶ ἐκ μιᾶς ποτισθέντες πηγῆς οὐκ ὀφείλετε διχονοεῖν · ἢ πν . ἐνταῦθα τὴν προθυμίαν φησίν ),  as also ( τὸ καθὰ οἱ Ἀττικοὶ χρῶνται , τὸ δὲ καθὼς οὐδέποτε , ἀλλ ʼ ἢ τῶν Ἀλεξανδρέων διάλεκτος , καθ ʼ ἣν ἡ θεῖα γραφὴ γέγραπται . Emm. Moschop. a Byzantine grammarian, cited by Fabricius, vi. 191. See also Phryn. p. 426, and Lobeck’s note: and Ellic. on Gal 3:6 )  ye were called in (elemental the condition and sphere in which they were called to live and move, see reff. Mey. referring to Galatians 1:6 , takes the instrumental sense: see there)  one hope of (belonging to: you were called  in it as the element, see above: it is then an accident of the κλῆσις . Or perhaps it may be the genitive of the  causa efficiens , ‘which the calling works,’ as Ellic. Cf. 1 Thessalonians 1:6 , μετὰ χαρᾶς πνεύματος ἁγίου )  your calling: