 20 .]  But YOU (emphatic)  did not thus ( οὐκ ἐπὶ τούτοις , Chr. not on these conditions, nor with such prospects. Beza suggests that a stop might be put at οὕτως ‘ye are not thus: ye learned,’ &c.: but the sense is altogether marred by it)  learn Christ (Christ personal not to be explained away into ὀρθῶς βιοῦν , as Chr., or any thing else: cf. 1 Corinthians 1:23 , ἡμεῖς κηρύσσομεν χριστόν : Philippians 1:15-18 ; Colossians 2:6 . CHRIST Himself is the subject of all Christian preaching and all Christian learning τὸ γνῶναι αὐτόν ( Php 3:10 ) is the great lesson of the Christian life, which these Ephesians began to learn at their conversion: see next verse),  if, that is (see ch. Eph 3:2 note, and 2 Corinthians 5:3 . He does not  absolutely assume the fact, but implies that he then believed and still trusts it was so),  it was Him that ye heard (if ye really heard at your conversion the voice of the Shepherd Himself calling you as his sheep τὰ πρόβατα τὰ ἐμὰ τῆς φωνῆς μου ἀκούει , John 10:27 , see also Joh 5:25 )  and in Him that ye were taught (if it was in vital union with Him, as members of Him, that ye after your conversion received my teaching. Both these clauses are contained in ἐμάθετε τὸν χρ ., the first hearing of the voice of the Son of God, and growing in the knowledge of Him when awakened from spiritual death),  as is truth in Jesus (the rendering and connexion of this clause have been much disputed. I will remark, 1) that it seems by its form to be subordinate to  ἐν αὐτῷ ἐδιδάχθητε , and the  καθώς to express the quality of the  διδαχή : 2) that in this case we have  ἐστιν ἀλήθεια ἐν τῷ Ἰησ  . answering to  ἐν αὐτῷ ἐδιδάχθητε  . 3) to take the easier members first,  ἐν τῷ Ἰησοῦ is a closer personal specification of  ἐν αὐτῷ in Jesus that one name recalling their union in both in His Person, and, which is important here, in His example also: 4)  καθώς ἐστιν ἀλήθεια expands  ἐδιδάχθητε if the nature of the teaching which you received was according to that which is truth (in Him). So that the meaning will amount to this if ye were taught in Him according to that which is truth in Jesus; if you received into yourselves, when you listened to the teaching of the Gospel, that which is true (respecting you and Him) in your union with and life in Jesus, the Son of God manifest in the flesh. See Ellicott’s note),