 17 .]  This (which follows)  then (resumptive of Ephesians 4:1 ; as Thdrt., πάλιν ἀνέλαβε τῆς παραινέσεως τὸ προοίμιον . This is shewn by the fact that the μηκέτι περιπατ . here is only the negative side of, and therefore subordinate to, the ἀξίως περιπ . of Ephesians 4:1 . Eph 4:4-16 form a digression arising out of τ . ἑνότητα τ . πν . in Ephesians 4:3 . Still this must not be too strictly pressed: the digression is all in the course of the argument, and μηκέτι here is not without reference to μηκέτι in Ephesians 4:14 . The fervid style of St. Paul will never divide sharply into separate logical portions each runs into and overlaps the other)  I say (see Romans 12:3 . There is no need to understand δεῖν before the infinitive which follows. The μηκ . ὑμ . περιπατεῖν is the object of λέγω expressed in the infinitive, just as regularly as in βούλομαί σε λέγειν . That an imperative sense is involved, lies in the context)  and testify (see reff.: cf. Plato, Phileb. p. 47 D, ταῦτα δὲ τότε μὲν οὐκ ἐμαρτυράμεθα , νῦν δὲ λέγομεν : Thuc. vi. 80; viii. 53, Duk.)  in the Lord (element; not ‘formula jurandi,’ see 1 Thessalonians 4:1 , note),  that ye no longer (‘  as once :’ implied also by καί below)  walk as also (besides yourselves: though the Ephesians did not walk so now, their returning to such a course is made the logical hypothesis)  the Gentiles (ye being now distinguished from them by being members of God’s church, though once Gentiles according to the flesh. Perhaps from this not being seen, λοιπά was inserted)  walk in (element)  vanity (see Romans 1:21 : they ἐματαιώθησαν in their downward course from God. But we must not restrict the word to idolatry: it betokens the  waste of the whole rational powers on worthless objects. See also on Rom 8:20 )  of their mind (their rational part),  being (beware of referring  ὄντες to ἀπηλλ . with Eadie. Besides its breaking the force of the sentence, I doubt if such an arrangement is ever found)  darkened (see again Romans 1:21 , and the contrast brought out 1 Thessalonians 5:4-5 , and ch. Eph 5:8 )  in (the dative gives the sphere or element in which. The difference between it and the accusative of reference ( τὴν διάνοιαν ἐσκοτισμένους , Jos. Antt. ix. 4. 3) is perhaps this, that the dative is more subjective The man is dark: wherein? in his διάνοια : the accusative more objective Darkness is on the man: in him, whereon? on his διάνοια )  their understanding (perceptive faculty: intellectual discernment: see note, ch. Eph 2:3 ),  alienated (reff.: objective result of the subjective ‘being darkened’)  from the life of God (not ‘modus vivendi quem Deus instituit,’ as the ancients (Thdrt., Thl., and Grot., al.), for  ζωή in N. T. never has this meaning (see the two clearly distinguished in Gal 5:25 ), but always  life , as opposed to death. Thus ‘  the life of God ’ will mean, as Beza beautifully says, ‘vita illa qua Deus vivit in suis:’ for, as Beng., ‘vita spiritalis accenditur in credentibus ex ipsa Dei vita.’ Stier makes an important remark: “The Apostle is here treating, not so much of the life of God in Christ which is regenerated in believers, as of the original state of man, when God was his Life and Light, before the irruption of darkness into human nature”)  on account of the ignorance (of God: see ref. 1 Pet.)  which is in them (not, by nature: cf. Romans 1:21-28 : they did not  choose to retain God in their knowledge, and this loss of the knowledge of Him alienated them from the divine Life),  on account of (second clause, subordinate to  ἀπηλλ  .: not subordinate to and rendering a reason for τὴν ἄγν . τ . οὖσαν , as Meyer, which would be awkward, and less like St. Paul)  the hardening (‘ πώρωσις est obduratio, callus. Rem quæ hac voce significatur, eleganter describit Plutarchus,  de auditione p. 46, ubi nullo monitorum ad vitam emendandam sensu duci, negotium esse dicit ἀνελευθέρου τινὸς δεινῶς κ . ἀπαθοῦς πρὸς τὸ αἰδεῖσθαι νέου διὰ συνήθειαν ἁμαρτημάτων κ . συνέχειαν , ὥσπερ ἐν σκληρᾷ σαρκὶ κ . τυλώδει τῇ ψυχῇ , μώλωπα μὴ λαμβάνοντος .’ Kypke. The sense ‘  blindness ’ is said by Fritzsche, on Romans 11:7 , to be invented by the grammarians. Thdrt. says πώρωσιν τὴν ἐσχάτην ἀναλγησίαν λέγει · καὶ γὰρ αἱ τῷ σώματι ἐγγινόμεναι πωρώσεις οὐδεμίαν αἴσθησιν ἔχουσι διὰ τὸ παντελῶς νενεκρῶσθαι )  of their heart ,