 24 .]  and put on (see on ἀποθέσθαι above)  the new man (as opposed to παλαιόν ; not meaning  Christ , any further than as He is its great Head and prototype, see on  κτισθ  . ),  which was created (mark the aorist, as historical fact, once for all, in Christ. In each individual case, it is not created again, but put on: cf. Rom 13:14 )  after God (= κατ ʼ εἰκόνα τοῦ κτίσαντος αὐτόν , Colossians 3:10 : also κατ ʼ εἰκόνα θεοῦ ἐποίησεν αὐτόν , Genesis 1:27 : so 1 Peter 1:15 , κατὰ τὸν καλέσαντα ὑμᾶς ἅγιον καὶ αὐτοὶ ἅγιοι κ . τ . λ . The doctrine of the restoration to us of the divine image in Christ, as here implied, is not to be overlooked. Müller, ‘Lehre von der Sünde,’ ii. p. 485 ff., denies any allusion to it here, but on insufficient grounds, as indeed he himself virtually allows. Not the bare fact of Genesis 1:27 , but the great truth which that fact represents, is alluded to. The image of God in Christ is a far more glorious thing than Adam ever had, or could have had: but still the κατ ʼ εἰκόνα θεοῦ , = κατὰ θεόν , is true of both: and, as Müller himself says, ‘  jenes ist erst die wahrhafte Erfüllung von diesem ’)  in (element, or sphere, of the character of the new man)  righteousness and holiness of truth (again, beware of ‘  true holiness ,’ E. V. as destroying the whole antithesis and force of the words. The genitive, too, belongs to both substantives.
	 ἡ ἀλήθεια , God’s essence, John 3:33 ; Romans 1:25 ; Romans 3:7 ; Romans 15:8 , opposed to ἡ ἀπάτη above. “ δικαιοσύνη and ὁσιότης occur together, but in contrary order, in ref. Luke, and Wis 9:3 . The adjectives and adverbs are connected, 1 Thessalonians 2:10 : Titus 1:8 . δικαιοσύνη betokens a just relation among the powers of the soul within, and towards men and duties without. But ὁσιότης , as the Heb. תָּמִים (Proverbs 2:21 . Amo 5:10 ), betokens the integrity of the spiritual life, and the piety towards God of which that is the condition. Hence both expressions together complete the idea of moral perfection ( Mat 5:48 ). As here the  ethical side of the divine image is brought out, Col 3:10 brings out the  intellectual . The new birth alone leads to ἐπίγνωσις : all knowledge which proceeds not from renewal of heart, is but outward appearance: and of this kind was that among the false Colossian teachers. On the other hand, in Wis 2:23 ( ὁ θεὸς ἔκτισεν τὸν ἄνθρωπον ἐπ ʼ ἀφθαρσίᾳ , καὶ εἰκόνα τῆς ἰδίας ἰδιότητος ( ἀϊδιότ . F. (not A.)) ἐποίησεν αὐτόν ) the physical side of the divine image is brought out.” Olsh. Stier suggests that there is perhaps a slight contrast in  δικαιοσύνη to  πλεονεξία Ephesians 4:19 , and in  ὁσιότης ( τὸ καθαρόν , Chr.) to  ἀκαθαρσία ).