 9 .] Further explanation of this text.  But that He ascended (  τὸ ἀν  . does not here mean, ‘  the word ’ ἀνέβη , which does not occur in the text cited),  what is it (does it imply)  except that he also (as well)  descended to the lower parts of the earth (the argument seems to be this: the Ascension here spoken of was not a first exaltation, but a  return to heaven of one who dwelt in heaven οὐδεὶς ἀναβέβηκεν εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν ,  εἰ μὴ ὁ ἐκ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ καταβάς , ὁ υἱὸς τ . ἀνθρώπου ὁ ὢν ἐν τῷ οὐρανῷ , John 3:13 , which is in fact the key to these verses. The  ascent implied a previous  descent . This is the leading thought. But it is doubted  how far the words  κατώτερα μέρη τῆς γῆς carry that descent, whether to  earth merely, so that τῆς γῆς is the genitive of apposition, or to  Hades , so that it is genitive of possession. Usage will not determine for 1) it is uncertain whether the Apostle meant any allusion to the corresponding Hebrew expression: 2) that expression is used both for  Hades , Psalms 63:9 , and for  earth ( θεμέλια , LXX), Isaiah 44:23 (and for the  womb , Psa 139:15 ). Nor can it be said (as Harl., Mey.) that the descent into hell would be irrelevant here or that our Lord ascended not from Hades but from the earth: for, the  fact of descent being the primary thought, we have only to ask as above,  how far that descent is carried in the Apostle’s mind. The greater the descent, the greater the ascent: and if the αἰχμαλωσία consisted of Satan and his powers, the warfare in which they were taken captive would most naturally be contemplated in all its extent, as reaching to their habitation itself: ‘this ascent, what does it imply but a descent, and that even to the lower parts of the earth from which the spoils of victory were fetched?’ And this meaning seems to be upheld by the ἵνα πληρώσῃ  τὰ πάντα which follows, as well as by the contrast furnished by  ὑπεράνω πάντων τῶν οὐρανῶν . This interpretation is upheld by most of the ancients, Iren., Tert., Jer., Pelag., Ambrst.; also by Erasm., Est., Calov., Bengel, Rück., Olsh., Stier, Baur (uses it as a proof of the gnostic origin of the Epistle), Ellicott, al.: that of the Incarnation merely,  descent on earth , by Beza, Calv., Grot., Schöttg., Mich., Storr, Winer, Harl., B.-Crus., Meyer, De W., al.: that of Christ’s  death (and burial), by Chr., Thdrt., Œc., al.: that corresponding to Psalms 139:15 , by Beza (alt.), Witsius, al.)?