 16 .]  from whom (see Colossians 2:19 , an almost exact parallel, from which it is clear that ἐξ οὗ belongs to τὴν αὔξησιν ποιεῖται He being the source of all growth)  all the body (see on Col.), (  which is )  being closely framed together (note the present participle the framing is not complete but still proceeding. For the word, see on ch. Eph 2:21 )  and compounded (‘notat simul firmitudinem et consolidationem,’ Bengel),  by means of every joint (to be joined, not with the participles preceding, but (see below) with τ . αὔξ . ποι ., as Chr., Thdrt., Beng., Mey., except that they understand ἁφή to mean αἴσθησις the perception of the vital energy imparted from the head ( τὸ πνεῦμα τὸ ἀπὸ τ . ἐγκεφάλου καταβαῖνον , τὸ διὰ τῶν νεύρων ), which is the cause of all growth to the body. But it seems hardly controvertible that ἁφή does signify ‘  joint ’ ( συναφή ) in the parallel Colossians 2:19 ; it is there (see note) joined with συνδεσμῶν so closely, as necessarily to fall into the same class of anatomical arrangements, and cannot mean αἴσθησις . Also in Damoxenus in Athenæus, iii. 102 E, we have it in this sense καὶ συμπλεκομένης οὐχὶ συμφώνους ἁφάς . Indeed the meaning  Berührung , ‘  point d’appui ,’ would naturally lead to that of  joint )  of the (article just as παντὶ ἀνέμῳ τῆς διδασκ . above: see note there)  supply (the joints are the points of union where the supply passes to the different members, and by means of which the body derives the supply by which it grows. σῶμα τῆς ἁμαρτίας , σκεύη τῆς λειτουργίας : “a kind of genitive  definitivus , by which the predominant use, purpose, or destination of the ἁφή is specified and characterized.” Ellic.),  according to vital working in the measure of each individual part, carries on (remark the intensive middle ποιεῖται , denoting that the αὔξησις is not carried on ab extra, but by functional energy within the body itself)  the growth of the body (I thus render, preferring to join as well διὰ π . ἁφ . τ . ἐπιχ . as κατ ʼ ἐν . κ τ . λ . with τ . αὔξ . ποιεῖται rather than with the preceding participles, 1) to avoid the very long awkward clause encumbered with qualifications, πᾶν τὸ σῶμα σ . κ . σ . διὰ πᾶσ . ἁφ . τῆς ἐπιχ . κατ ʼ ἐνέργ . ἐν μέτρ . ἑν . ἑκ . μέρους : 2) because the repetition of τοῦ σώματος is much more natural in a cumbrous apodosis, than in a simple apodosis after a cumbrous protasis: 3) for perspicuity: the whole instrumentality and modality here described belonging to the growth (  ἐπιχορ  . ,  ἐνέργ  . ,  ἐν μέτρῳ ), and not merely to the compaction of the body.  τοῦ σώματος is repeated, rather than ἑαυτοῦ used, perhaps for solemnity, perhaps (which is more likely) to call back the attention to the subject αῶμα after so long a description of its means and measure of growth)  for the building up of itself in love (Meyer would join  ἐν ἀγ  . with τ . αὔξ . τ . σώμ . ποι . as suiting better Ephesians 4:15 . This is hardly necessary, and encumbers still further the already sufficiently qualified αὔξ . ποιεῖται . Love is just as much the element in which the edification, as that in which the growth, takes place).
	[B] (See on Ephesians 4:1 .) Eph 4:17 to Ephesians 6:9 .]  Exhortations to a course of walking and conversation, derived from the ground just laid down , and herein ( Eph 4:17 to Eph 5:21 )  general duties of Christians as united to Christ their Head .