 15 .]  but (opposition to the  whole last verse; introducing as it does, not only ἀληθεύοντες ἐν ἀγάπῃ , but the αὐξήσωμεν below)  being followers of truth (  ἀληθεύειν cannot here mean merely to  speak the truth , as the whole matter dealt with is more general; the particular follows, Ephesians 4:25 . The verb has the widest meaning of  being ἀληθής and (as Stier remarks) not without a certain sense of effort, ‘  sectari veritatem .’ The Vulg. gives it well, but perhaps with too exclusively practical a bearing, ‘  veritatem facientes :’ Bengel, ‘  verantes :’ the old English versions, ‘  folowe the truth ,’ which gives too much the objective sense to truth. It is almost impossible to express it satisfactorily in English. I have somewhat modified this last rendering, restoring the general sense of ‘truth.’ The objection to ‘followers of truth’ is that it may be mistaken for ‘searchers after truth’ but I can find no expression which does not lie open to equal objection)  in love (must be joined with ἀληθεύοντες , not with αὐξήσωμεν . For 1) the mere participle with δέ would stand most feebly and awkwardly at the beginning of the sentence: and 2) we have already observed the habit of the Apostle to be, to subjoin, not to prefix, his qualifying clauses.  ἐν ἀγάπη is added, as the element in which the Christian ἀληθεύειν must take place: it is not and cannot be an ἀληθεύειν at all hazards a ‘fiat justitia, ruat cœlum’ truthfulness: but must be conditioned by love: a true-seeking and true-being with loving caution and kind allowance not breaking up, but cementing, brotherly love by walking in truth)  may grow up into (increase towards the measure of the stature of; to the perfect man in Him. Again an allusion to the incorporation of all the Church in Christ: see below)  Him in all things (accusative of reference; the article implying, in every department of our growth, ‘in all things wherein we grow,’ as Meyer)  who is the Head (see ch. Eph 1:22 ),  namely, Christ (the nominative is best regarded as an attraction to the  foregoing relative, just as in ‘urbem quam statuo vestra est’ the substantive is attracted to the  following relative. So we have, Eur. Hecub. 754, πρὸς ἄνδρ ʼ, ὃς ἄρχει τῆσδε Πολυμήστωρ χθονός : and Plato, Apol. p. 41 A, εὑρήσει τοὺς ὡς ἀληθῶς δικαστάς , υἵπερ κ . λέγονται ἐκεῖ δικάζειν , Μίνως τε καὶ Ῥαδάμανθυς κ . Αἴακος . In the face of these examples, there is no occasion, with De W. and Ellic., to suppose that the Apostle places χρ . at the end to give force to ἐξ οὗ which follows. Beware of Eadie’s rendering, ‘who is the Head, the ( ὁ χρ .) Christ,’ as alien from any design apparent in the argument, or indeed in the Epistle),