 19 .]  who as ( οἵτινες , see ch. Eph 1:23 note)  being past feeling ( ὥσπερ τῶν ἀπὸ πάθους τινὸς μέρη πολλάκις τοῦ σώματος νενεκρωμένων οἷς οὐ μόνον ἄλγος οὐδὲν ἐκεῖθεν ἐγγίνεται , ἀλλ ʼ οὐδὲ ἡ τοῦ μέρους ἀφαίρεσις αἴσθησιν ἐμποιεῖ . Theod. Mops. in Stier. From the ‘  desperatio ’ of the Vulg. Syr., seems to have come the reading ἀπηλπικότες , see var. readd. The obduration described may spring in ordinary life from despair: so Cicero, Ep. fam. ii. 16, in Bengel, ‘diuturna desperatione rerum obduruisse animum ad dolorem novum,’ and Polyb. ix. 40. 9, ἀπαλγοῦντες ταῖς ἐλπίσι (where see Ernesti’s note), but may also result from other reasons. Certainly despair has nothing to do with the matter here, but rather the carrying on of the πώρωσις to positive ἀπάλγησις by the increasing habit of sin)  gave up themselves (“ ἑαυτ ., with terrific emphasis. It accorded here with the hortatory object of the Apostle to bring into prominence that which happened on the side of their own free will. It is otherwise in Romans 1:24 , παρέδωκεν αὐτοὺς ὁ θεός : and the two treatments of the fact are not inconsistent, but parallel, each having its vindication and its full truth in the pragmatism of the context.” Meyer)  to wantonness (see Gal 5:19 note)  in order to (conscious aim, not merely incidental result of the παραδοῦναι see below)  the working (yes and more the being ἐργάται the working as at a trade or business but we have no one word for it: cf. Chrys., ὁρᾷς πῶς αὐτοὺς ἀποστερεῖ συγγνώμης ἐργασίαν ἀκαθαρσίας εἰπών ; οὐ παραπεσόντες , φησίν , ἥμαρτον , ἀλλ ʼ εἰργάζοντο αὐτὰ τὰ δεινά , κ . μελέτῃ τῷ πράγματι ἐκέχρηντο )  of impurity of every kind (see Romans 1:21-27 . Ellic. remarks, “As St. Paul nearly invariably places πᾶς before, and not as here after the abstract (anarthrous) substantive, it seems proper to specify it (that circumstance) in translation”)  in greediness (such is the meaning, and not ‘  with greediness ,’ i.e. greedily, as E. V., Chr. (appy), Thdrt., Œc., Erasm., Calv., Est., al., nor ‘  certatim , quasi agatur de lucro, ita ut alius alium superare contendat,’ as Beza, nor as Harl. ‘  in gluttony ’ (which meaning his citation from Chrys. does not bear out).
	 πλεονεξία , the desire of having more, is obviously a wider vice than mere covetousness, though this latter is generally its prominent form. It is self-seeking, or  greed : in whatever direction this central evil tendency finds its employment. So that it may include in itself as an element, as here, lustful sins, though it can never actually mean ‘lasciviousness.’ In 1Co 5:10 it ( πλεονέκταις ) is disjoined from πόρνοις by ἤ , and joined by καί to ἅρπαξιν clearly therefore meaning covetous persons. See also ch. Ephesians 5:3 , and Colossians 3:5 : and compare Ellicott’s note here).