 They continued steadfastly  (ησαν προσκαρτυρουντες). Periphrastic active imperfect of προσκαρτυρεω as in Acts 1:14 (same participle in verse Acts 2:46).Fellowship  (κοινωνια). Old word from κοινωνος (partner, sharer in common interest) and this from κοινος what is common to all. This partnership involves participation in, as the blood of Christ (Philippians 2:1) or co-operation in the work of the gospel (Philippians 1:5) or contribution for those in need (2 Corinthians 8:4; 2 Corinthians 9:13). Hence there is wide diversity of opinion concerning the precise meaning of κοινωνια in this verse. It may refer to the distribution of funds in verse Acts 2:44 or to the oneness of spirit in the community of believers or to the Lord's Supper (as in 1 Corinthians 10:16) in the sense of communion or to the fellowship in the common meals or αγαπαε (love-feasts).The breaking of bread  (τη κλασε του αρτου). The word κλασις is an old word, but used only by Luke in the N.T. (Luke 24:35; Acts 2:42), though the verb κλαω occurs in other parts of the N.T. as in verse Acts 2:46. The problem here is whether Luke refers to the ordinary meal as in Luke 24:35 or to the Lord's Supper. The same verb κλαω is used of breaking bread at the ordinary meal (Luke 24:30) or the Lord's Supper (Luke 22:19). It is generally supposed that the early disciples attached so much significance to the breaking of bread at the ordinary meals, more than our saying grace, that they followed the meal with the Lord's Supper at first, a combination called αγαπα or love-feasts. "There can be no doubt that the Eucharist at this period was preceded uniformly by a common repast, as was the case when the ordinance was instituted" (Hackett). This led to some abuses as in 1 Corinthians 11:20. Hence it is possible that what is referred to here is the Lord's Supper following the ordinary meal. "To simply explain τη κλασε του αρτου as='The Holy Communion' is to pervert the plain meaning of words, and to mar the picture of family life, which the text places before us as the ideal of the early believers" (Page). But in Acts 20:7 they seem to have come together especially for the observance of the Lord's Supper. Perhaps there is no way to settle the point conclusively here.The prayers  (ταις προσευχαις). Services where they prayed as in Acts 1:14, in the temple (Acts 3:1), in their homes (Acts 4:23). 