 8. ] Our Lord might have chosen any of the mysteries of nature to illustrate the point: He takes  that one , which is above others symbolic of the action of the  Spirit , and (which in both languages, that in which He spoke, as well as that in which His speech is reported) is expressed by  the same word as it. So that the words as they stand apply themselves at once to the Spirit and His working, without any figure;  spiritus ubi vult spirat . Bengel, after Origen and Augustine, takes  τὸ πν  . of the  Holy Spirit exclusively: but this can hardly be. The  form of the sentence, as well as its import, is against it. The  πνεῖ  ,   ἀκούεις  ,   οἶδας  , are all said of well-known facts. And the comparison would not hold on that supposition ‘As  the Spirit is in His working on those born of Him, so is  every one that is born of the Spirit .’ But on the other interpretation, we have  The wind breatheth , &c.:  so is , i.e. ‘  so it is with ’ (see a similar construction Mat 13:45 )  every one born of the Spirit .
	Notice it is not ὁ ἄνεμος here, but  τὸ πνεῦμα  , the gentle breath of the wind; and it is heard, not felt; a case in which the  οὐκ οἶδας κ . τ . λ . is more applicable than in that of a violent wind steadily blowing. It is one of those sudden breezes springing up on a calm day, which has no apparent direction, but we hear it rustling in the leaves around.
	The  ὅπου θέλει  ,  in the application , implies the  freedom ( 2Co 3:17 ) and  unrestrained working of the Spirit ( 1Co 12:11 ).
	 πᾶς ὁ γεγ  . ] Our Lord can hardly, as Stier explains (iv. 48, edn. 2), mean  Himself by these words; or, if He does, only  inclusively , as being  γεγ  .   ἐκ τ  .   πν  ., not principally. He describes  the mystery of the spiritual life: we see its  effects , in ourselves, and others who have it; but we cannot trace its beginnings, nor can we prescribe to the Holy Spirit His course: He works in us and leads us on, accompanying us with His witness,  His voice , spiritually discerned. “  Homo in quo spiritus spirat, e spiritu respirat .” Bengel.
	This saying of the Lord in contradiction to all so-called Methodism, which prescribes the time and manner of the working of the Spirit assures us of the manifold and undefinable variety of both these. “The physiognomies of those who are born again, are as various as those of natural men” (Dräseke, cited by Stier, iv. 50, edn. 2).