 3. ] We are not to imagine that any thing is wanting to complete the sense or connexion. Our Lord replies, It is not  learning , but  life , that is wanted for the Messiah’s Kingdom; and  life must begin by  birth . Luther (Stier, iv. 17, edn. 2) says: “My teaching is not of  doing and  leaving undone , but of a  change in the man (  nicht von Thun und Lassen, fondern von Werden ); so that it is, not  new works done, but a  new man to do them; not another  life only, but another  birth .” And  only by this means can Nicodemus gain the teaching for which he is come,  ἰδεῖν τ . β . τ . θ ., ‘become a disciple of Christ:’  ἴδοι  , τουτέστι νοήσοι , Thl., ‘  understand, by sharing ’ ‘have any conception of.’
	 ἄνωθεν οἱ μὲν “ ἐκ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ ” φασιν , οἱ “ ἐξ ἀρχῆς .” Chr [44] , who, as also Euthym [45] , explains  γεν  .   ἄνωθ  . by παλιγγενεσία : Orig [46] , Cyr [47] , and Thl. taking the other meaning.
	 [44] Chrysostom, Bp. of Constantinople, 397 407: Chr-montf, a MS. cited from Montfaucon; Chr-wlf, Wolfenbüttel MS. of Chr. written in cent y . vi.; Chr-Fd, Field’s edn. of the Hom. on Matthew 6:0
 [45] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [46] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [47] Cyril, Bp. of Alexandria, 412 444
	The true meaning is to be found by taking into account the answer of Nicodemus, who obviously understood it of a  new birth in mature life .  Born afresh would be a better rendering than ‘born  again ,’ being closer to the meaning of ἄνωθεν , ‘from the very beginning;’ ‘unless a man begin his life anew altogether ( πἁλιν ἄνωθεν , Gal 4:9 ), he cannot’ &c.
	It is not impossible that the other meaning may  lie beneath this , as the βασιλεία is  τοῦ θεοῦ  , and so must the birth be; but Grotius has remarked that in Hebrew and Aramaic (in one of which languages our Lord, discoursing with a Rabbinical Jew, probably spoke) there is no word of double meaning corresponding to ἄνωθεν : so that He must have expressed it, as Nicodemus understood it, of an  entirely new birth. That John never uses the word elsewhere in this sense (Lücke) is here of little weight, for he uses it only three times more, and never with a verb cognate to γεννάομαι . The Evangelist most likely chose the Greek expression  γεν  .   ἄνωθ  . as strictly corresponding to the term ἀναγεννᾶσθαι , which, when he wrote, was in common use in the Church: see 1 Peter 1:3 ; 1 Peter 1:23 . Justin Martyr, as Bp. Wordsworth reminds us, quotes as our Lord’s saying, Apol. i. 61, p. 79, ἆν μὴ ἀναγεννήθητε , οὐ μὴ εἰσέλθητε εἰς τ . βασιλείαν τῶν οὐρανῶν : probably mixing this with Matthew 18:3 . On the birth itself, see below, John 3:5 .