 13. ] The whole verse seems to have intimate connexion with and reference to Proverbs 30:4 ; and as spoken to a learned doctor of the law, would recall that verse, especially as the further question is there asked, ‘Who hath gathered  the wind in His fists?’ ( מִי אָסַף־רוּחַ בּחָפְנָיו ), and ‘What is His name, and what His Son’s name?’ See also Deuteronomy 30:12 , and the citation, Romans 10:6-8 .
	All attempts to explain away the plain sense of this verse are futile and ridiculous. The Son of Man, the Lord Jesus, the Word made Flesh,  was  in, came down from , heaven, and was  in heaven (heaven about Him, heaven dwelling on earth, ch. Joh 1:51 ),  while here , and ascended up into heaven when He left this earth; and by all these proofs, speaking in the prophetic language of accomplished Redemption, does the Lord establish, that  He alone can speak of τὰ ἐπουράνια to men, or convey the blessing of the new birth to them. Be it remembered, that He is here speaking  proleptically , of  results of His course and sufferings on earth, of the way of regeneration and salvation which God has appointed by Him. He regards therefore throughout the passage, the great facts of redemption  as accomplished , and makes announcements which could not be literally acted upon till they had been so accomplished. See John 3:14 ff., whose sense will be altogether lost, unless this  ἀναβέβηκεν be understood of His exaltation to be a Prince and a Saviour.
	 ὁ ὢν ἐν τῷ οὐρ  . ] See ch. Joh 1:18 and note. Doubtless the meaning involves ‘  whose place is in heaven; ’ but it also asserts the  being in heaven of the  time then present: see ch. John 1:51 . Stier (iv. 68, edn. 2) speaks well of the majestic ὁ ὢν ἐν τῷ οὐρανῷ , by which the Lord characterizes His whole life in the flesh between the καταβαίνειν and the ἀναβαίνειν . As uniting in Himself God, whose dwelling is heaven, with man whose dwelling is on earth, He ever was in heaven. And nearly connected with this fact is the transition to His being the fountain of eternal life, in Joh 3:14 ff.: cf. 1 Corinthians 15:47-50 , where the same connexion is strikingly set forth.
	To explain such expressions as ἀναβαίνειν εἰς τ . οὐρ ., &c., as mere  Hebrew metaphors (Lücke, De Wette, &c.) is no more than saying that Hebrew metaphors were founded on deep insight into divine truth: these words in fact express  the truths on which Hebrew metaphors were constructed . Socinus is quite right, when he says that  those who take ἀναβ . εἰς τ . οὐ .  metaphorically, must in all consistency take ὁ καταβὰς ἐκ τ . οὐρ .  metaphorically also; “qualis descensus, talis etiam ascensus.”