 16. ] Many Commentators since the time of Erasmus, who first suggested the notion have maintained  that the discourse of our Lord breaks off here , and the rest, to John 3:21 , consists of the remarks of the Evangelist. (So Tholuck, Olshausen, Lücke, De Wette; which last attributes Joh 3:13-14 also to John.) But to those who view these discourses of our Lord as intimately connected  wholes , this will be as inconceivable, as the idea of St. Matthew having combined into one the insulated sayings of his Master. This discourse would be altogether fragmentary, and would have left Nicodemus  almost where he was before , had not this most weighty concluding part been also spoken to him. This it is, which expands and explains the assertions of John 3:14-15 , and applies them to the present life and conduct of mankind.
	The principal grounds alleged for supposing the discourse to break off here seem to be ( α )  that all allusion to Nicodemus is henceforth dropped .
	But this is not conclusive, for it is obvious that the natural progress of such an interview on his part would be  from questioning to listening: and that even had he joined in the dialogue, the Evangelist would not have been bound to relate all his remarks, but only those which, as John 3:2 ; John 3:4 ; John 3:9 , were important to bring out his mind and standing-point. ( β )  That  henceforth past tenses are used; making it more probable that the passage was added after the great events alluded to had taken place. But does not our Lord speak here, as in so many other cases,  proleptically , of the fulness of the accomplishment of those designs, which  in the divine counsels were accomplished? Is not this way of speaking natural to a discourse which is treating of the  development of the new birth, itself not yet brought in till the Spirit was given? See a parallel instance, with the Evangelist’s explanation, ch. John 7:37-39 . ( γ )  On account of this use of  μονογενής  , John 3:16 ; John 3:18 , which is peculiar to John. But, as Stier well enquires (iv. 84, edn. 2),  whence did John get this word , but from the lips of his Divine Master? Would he have ventured on such an expression, except by an authorization from Him? ( δ )  It is asserted that John often continues our Lord’s discourses with additions of his own; and John 3:31 , and ch. John 1:16 , are alleged as instances. Of these, ch. Joh 1:16 is  beside the question; for the whole prologue is spoken in the person of the Evangelist, and the Baptist’s testimony in Joh 3:15 is merely confirmatory of John 3:14 , and then the connexion goes on with John 3:16 . On the untenableness of the view with regard to John 3:31 ff., see notes there.
	It would besides give us a very mean idea of the honesty or reverence of one who sets forth so sublime a view of the Divinity and Authority of our Lord, to suppose him capable,  in any place , of attributing to his Master words and sentiments of his own invention. And that the charge amounts to this, every simple reader can bear testimony. The obvious  intention of the Evangelist here is,  that the Lord shall have said these words . If our Lord did not say them, but the Evangelist, we cannot stop with the view that he has  added his own remarks to our Lord’s discourse, but must at once pronounce him  guilty of an imposture and a forgery . (See Stier, iv. 81 ff., edn. 2.) I conclude therefore on all these grounds that the words following, to John 3:21 , cannot be otherwise regarded than as  uttered by our Lord in continuation of His discourse .
	 ἠγάπησεν ] The indefinite signifying the universal and eternal existence of that love which God Himself  is ( 1Jn 4:8 ).
	 τὸν κόσμον  ,  the world , in the most general sense, as represented by, and included in, man, Genesis 3:17-18 ; Genesis 1:28 ; not,  the elect , which would utterly destroy the force of the passage: see on John 3:18 .
	The Lord here reveals  Love as the  one ground of the divine counsel in redemption,  salvation of men, as its  one purpose with regard to them .
	 τὸν υἱὸν  …   ἔδωκεν ] These words, whether spoken in Hebrew or in Greek, seem to carry a reference to the offering of Isaac; and Nicodemus in that case would at once be reminded by them of the love  there required , the  substitution there made , and the  prophecy there uttered to Abraham, to which  ἵνα πᾶς ὁ πιστ  . so nearly corresponds.
	 ἔδωκεν absolute, not merely τῷ κόσμῳ  gave up, παρέδωκεν , Romans 8:32 ; where as Stier remarks, we have again, in the οὐκ ἐφείσατο , an unmistakeable allusion to the οὐκ ἐφείσω , said to Abraham, Genesis 22:16 .
	 ἵνα  … ] By the repetition of this final clause verbatim from John 3:15 , we have the identity of the former clauses established: i.e. the uplifting of the Son of Man like the serpent in the wilderness  is the manifestation of the Divine Love in the gift of the Son of God: ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ ἀνθρώπου of John 3:14 , = in the strictest sense, ὁ υἱὸς αὐτ . ὁ μονογ . of John 3:16 .