 14. ] From this point the discourse passes to the  Person of Christ, and Redemption by His Death.
	The Lord brings before this doctor of the Law the mention of Moses, who in his day by divine command lifted up a symbol of forgiveness and redemption to Israel.
	 καθώς ] We must avoid all such ideas as that our Lord  merely compares His death to the elevation of the brazen serpent, as if only a  fortuitous likeness were laid hold of by Him. This would leave the  brazen serpent itself meaningless , and is an explanation which can only satisfy those who do not discern the typical reference of all the ceremonial dispensation to the Redeemer.
	It is an important duty of an expositor here, to defend the obvious and only honest explanation of this comparison against the tortuous and inadequate interpretations of modern critics. The comparison lies between the  exalted serpent of brass , and the  exalted Son of Man. The brazen serpent sets forth  the Redeemer . This by recent Commentators (Lücke, De Wette, and others) is considered impossible: and the tertium comparationis is held to be only ‘the lifting up.’ But this does not satisfy the construction of the comparison. ‘The brazen serpent was lifted up: every one who looked on it, lived,’ = ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up: every one who believes on Him, shall live.’ The  same thing is predicated of the two; both are lifted up; cognate consequences follow,  body-healing and  soul-healing (as Erskine, On the Brazen Serpent). There must then be  some reason why the  only two members of the comparison yet unaccounted for stand where they do, considering that the brazen serpent was lifted up not for any physical efficacy, but by command of God alone.  Now on examination we find this correspondence fully established . The ‘serpent’ is in Scripture symbolism,  the devil , from the historical temptation in Genesis 3:0 . downwards. But  why is the devil set forth by the  serpent? How does the bite of the serpent operate? It  pervades with its poison the frame of its victim: that frame  becomes poisoned: and  death ensues . So sin,  the poison of the devil , being instilled into our nature, that nature has become σὰρξ ἁμαρτίας , a  poisoned nature , a  flesh of sin . Now the brazen serpent was made  in the likeness of the serpents which had bitten them. It  represented to the children of Israel the poison which had gone through their frames, and it was hung up there on the banner-staff, as a trophy, to shew them that  for the poison, there was healing; that the plague had been overcome. In  it , there was  no poison; only the  likeness of it. Now was not the Lord Jesus made ἐν ὁμοιώματι σαρκὸς ἁμαρτίας , Rom 8:3 ? Was not He made ‘Sin for us, who knew no sin’ ( 2Co 5:21 )? Did not He, on His Cross, make an open shew of, and triumph over, the Enemy, so that it was  as if the Enemy himself had been nailed to that Cross ( Col 2:15 )? Were not Sin and Death and Satan crucified, when  He was crucified? ἐκεῖ μέν , ἐπεὶ δι ʼ ὄφεως ἡ βλάβη , δι ʼ ὄφεως καὶ ἡ θεραπεία · ἐνταῦθα δέ , ἐπεὶ δι ʼ ἀνθρώπου ὁ θάνατος εἰσῆλθεν εἰς τὸν κόσμον , δι ʼ ἀνθρώπου καὶ ἡ ζωὴ παρεγένετο , Euthym [49]
	 [49] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 δεῖ  ,  it is necessary , in the Father’s counsel it is decreed, but not arbitrarily; the very necessity of things, which is in fact but the evolution of the divine Will, made it requisite that the pure and sinless Son of Man should thus be uplifted and suffer: see Luke 24:26 .
	 ὑψωθῆναι ] In this word there is more than the mere crucifixion. It has respect in its double meaning (of which see a remarkable instance in Genesis 40:13 ; Genesis 40:19 , E. V.) to the exaltation of the Lord on the Cross, and through the Cross to His Kingdom; and refers back to ἀναβέβηκεν εἰς τ . οὐρ . before. Stier quotes the Christian proverb, ‘  Crux scala cæli .’