 2. ]  νυκτός  for fear of the Jews: see ch. John 12:42 . The discourse seems to have taken place between Jesus and Nicodemus  alone , and may have been related by our Lord to the Evangelist afterwards. If this be deemed improbable (though I do not see why it should), of the two other alternatives I would rather believe that John was present, than that Nicodemus should have so minutely related a conversation which in his then position he could not understand.
	 οἴδαμεν ] This plural may be merely an allusion to others who had come to the same conclusion, e.g. Joseph of Arimathea; or it may express that Nicodemus was sent in the name of several who wished to know the real character of this Person who wrought such miracles. It is harsh, in this private conversation, to take the plural as merely of singular import, as Lightfoot seems to do. His other rendering, “  vulgo agnoscitur ,” is better, but not satisfactory; for the common people did not generally confess it, and Nicodemus, as an ἄρχων , would not be likely to speak in their name (see ch. Joh 7:49 ). I would rather take it to express  the true conviction respecting Jesus, of that class to which Nicodemus belonged the ἄρχοντες : and see in it an important fact, that their persecutions and murder of the Prince of Life hence found their greatest aggravation, that they were carried on  against the conclusions of their own minds , out of bitter malice, and worldly disappointment at His humble and unobtrusive character, and the spiritual purity and self-sacrifice which He inculcated. Still this must not, though undoubtedly it has truth in it, be carried too far: cf. Act 3:17 note, and Act 13:27 ; 1 Corinthians 2:8 .  Some degree of ignorance there must necessarily have been in all of them, even Caiaphas included, of our Lord’s Office and Person. Stier (iv. 11 ff., edn. 2) seems to think that Nicodemus, by using the plural, is sheltering himself from expressing  his own conviction, so as to be able to draw back again if necessary.
	 ἐλήλυθας ] Stier (and Schleiermacher, cited by Stier, iv. 12, edn. 2, note) thinks that there is involved in this word a  recognition by Nicodemus  of the Messianic mission of Jesus: that it expresses His being ὁ ἐρχόμενος ( Mat 11:3 alli [42] .). It is never used of any but the Messiah, except by the Lord Himself, when speaking of John the Baptist as the subject of prophecy (see Mat 11:14 alli [43] .).
	 [42] alli = some cursive mss.
	 [43] alli = some cursive mss.
	 διδάσκαλος ] In this and the following words, Nicodemus seems to be cautiously withdrawing from his admission being taken as expressing too much. For who of the Jews ever expected a  teacher to come from God? They looked for a  King , to sit on David’s throne, a  Prophet , to declare the divine will; but the Messiah was never designated as a  mere teacher , till the days of modern Socinianism. So that he seems trying to qualify or recall his ἐλήλυθας by this addition.
	The following words exhibit the same cautious inconsistency.  No one can do , &c.  unless we expect some strong expression of the truth, such as we had from Nathanael in ch. John 1:50 , but the sentence drops to merely ‘  God be with him ,’ which is a very poor and insufficient exponent of ἀπὸ θ .  ἐλήλυθας  . Against this inconsistency, the inner knowledge that the Kingdom of God was come, and He who was to found it, on the one hand, and the rationalizing endeavour to reduce this heavenly kingdom to  mere learning , and its Founder to a  mere teacher , on the other, is the following discourse directed.