 5. ] Our Lord passes by the question of Nicodemus without notice, further than that this His second assertion takes as it were the ground from under it, by explaining the token and means of the new birth.
	There can be no doubt, on any honest interpretation of the words, that  γεννηθῆναι ἐξ ὕδατος refers to the token or outward sign of baptism,  γ  .   ἐκ πνεύματος to the thing signified, or inward grace of the Holy Spirit. All attempts to get rid of  these two plain facts have sprung from doctrinal prejudices, by which the views of expositors have been warped. Such we have in Calvin: “spiritum, qui nos repurgat, et qui virtute sua in nos diffusa vigorem inspirat cœlestis vitæ;” Grotius: “spiritum aquæ instar emundantem;” Cocceius: “gratiam Dei, sordes et vitia abluentem;” Lampe: “obedientiam Christi;” Tholuck, who holds that not Baptism itself, but only its  idea , that of  cleansing , is referred to; and others, who endeavour to resolve ὕδατος καὶ πνεύματος into a figure of ἕν διὰ δυοῖν , so as to make it mean ‘  the cleansing or purifying Spirit .’ All the better and deeper expositors have recognized the co-existence of the two,  water and the  Spirit . So for the most part the ancients: so Lücke (in his last edition), De Wette, Neander, Stier, Olshausen, &c.
	This being then recognized,  to what does ὕδωρ  refer? At that time, two kinds of baptism were known: that of the  proselytes , by which they were received into Judaism, and that of  John , by which, as a preparatory rite, symbolizing repentance, the people were made ready for Him who was to baptize them with the Holy Ghost. But both these were significant of  one and the same truth; that namely of the  entire cleansing of the man for the new and spiritual life on which he was to enter, symbolized by water cleansing the outward person. Both were appointed means, the one by the Jewish Church, the other, stamping that first with approval, by God Himself, towards their respective ends. John himself declared his baptism to be  incomplete , it was  only with water; One was coming, who should baptize  with the Holy Ghost. That declaration of his is the key to the understanding of this verse . Baptism,  complete , with  water and the  Spirit , is the admission into the kingdom of God. Those who have received  the outward sign and the spiritual grace , have entered into that Kingdom. And this entrance was fully ministered to the disciples when the Spirit descended on them on the day of Pentecost. So that, as spoken to Nicodemus, these words referred him to the baptism of John, which probably (see Luk 7:30 ) he had slighted. But they were  not only spoken to him. The words of our Lord have in them life and meaning for all ages of His Church: and more especially these opening declarations of His ministry. He here unites together the two elements of a complete Baptism which were sundered in the words of the Baptist, ch. Joh 1:33 in which united form He afterwards (Matthew 28:19-20 ; Mar 16:16 ) ordained it as a Sacrament of His Church. Here He speaks of spiritual Baptism, as in ch. 6. of spiritual Communion, and in both places in connexion with the outward conditions and media of these sacraments. It is observable that here, as ordinarily (with a special exception, Acts 10:44 ff.), the outward sign comes first, and then the spiritual grace, vouchsafed in and by means of it where duly received.
	 εἰσελθεῖν εἰς is more than ἰδεῖν above, though no stress is to be laid on the difference. The former word was perhaps used because of Nicodemus’s expectation of  teaching being all that was required: but now, the necessity of a real vital change having been set forth, the expression is changed to a practical one the  entering into the Kingdom of God.