 31. ] Many modern critics, beginning with Bengel and Wetstein, and including Lücke, Kuinoel, Olshausen, Tholuck, De Wette. and others, maintain that after Joh 3:30 we have the words,  not of the Baptist, but of the Evangelist . Lücke and De Wette assume that the Evangelist has put his own thoughts into the Baptist’s mouth, or at least mixed them with his words. The reason of this arbitrary proceeding is, ( α )  that the sentiments of the following verses seem to them not to be congruous with the time and position of the Baptist . But some of them confess (e.g. Lücke, De Wette) that this very position of the Baptist is to them yet unexplained, and are disposed to question the applicability to their idea of it of very much which is undoubtedly recorded to have been said by him. So that we cannot allow such a view much critical weight, unless it can be first clearly shewn,  what were the Baptist’s convictions concerning the Person and Office of our Lord. ( β )  That the diction and sentiments of the following verses are so entirely in the style of our Evangelist . But first, I by no means grant this, in the sense which is here meant. It will be seen by the reff. that the Evangelist does not so frequently repeat himself as in most other passages of equal length. And even were this so, the remark made above on John 3:16-21 , would apply here also; that the Evangelist’s peculiar style of theological expression was formed on some model; and on what more likely than in the first place the discourses of his Divine Master, and then such sententious and striking testimonies as the present? But there is a weightier reason than these for opposing the above view, and that arises from what modern criticism has been so much given to overlook, the  inner coherence of the discourse itself; in which John explains to his disciples the  reason why HE must increase; whereas his own dignity was to be eclipsed before Him. This will be seen below as we proceed.
	And there is nothing inconsistent with what the Lord himself says of the Baptist in these verses. He (the Baptist) ever speaks not  as a disciple of Jesus, not as  within the Kingdom, but as knowing the blessedness of those who should be within it; as  standing by , and hearing the Bridegroom’s voice.
	Nor again is there any thing inconsistent with the frame of mind which prompted the question sent by John to our Lord afterwards in the onward waning of his days in prison: see note on Matthew 11:2 .
	 ὁ ἄνωθ  .   ἐρχ  . ] This gives us  the reason why HE must increase: His power and His words are not from below, temporary, limited; but are divine and inexhaustible; and, John 3:32  , His witness is not, like John’s, only of what he has been forewarned to expect, but of that which he has seen and heard. But  οὐδείς  , i.e. in reference to the κόσμος into which He is come, the σκοτία in which His light shines,  no one comparatively , receives His testimony. The state of men’s minds at Jerusalem with regard to Jesus must ere this have been well known to the Baptist. Notice in Joh 3:31 the collocation of the words as regards emphasis: ὁ  ὢν ἐκ τῆς γῆς  ἐκ τῆς γῆς ἐστιν ,  κ  .   ἐκ τῆς γῆς λαλεῖ .