 1 .] It is impossible to resist the strong manuscript authority for the reading ἔχωμεν in this verse. For indeed this may well be cited as the crucial instance of overpowering diplomatic authority compelling us to adopt a reading against which our subjective feelings rebel. Every internal consideration tends to impugn it. If admitted, the sentence is  hortatory. ‘Being then justified by faith , let us have  peace with God .’ (This is the only admissible sense of the first person subjunctive in an affirmative sentence like the present. The usage is an elliptical one: ἴωμεν , ‘  that we go ,’ i.e. ‘  it is time ,’ or in an address, ‘  permit , &c. that we go.’ Thus Od. χ . 77, ἐλθωμεν ἀνὰ ἄστυ : Il. χ . 450. ἴδωμ ʼ, ἅτιν ʼ ἔργα τέτυκται . See other examples in Kühner, Gramm. § 463. The  deliberative sense, attempted to be given by Dr. Tregelles (see Kitto’s Journal of Bibl. Lit. No. xiv. p. 465 ff.) can only have place in an  interrogative or  dubitative clause, and every example given by Mr. Green, whom he cites for his supposed sense, as well as by Kühner (§ 464), is of this kind. Besides, to call the sense ‘we ought to have,’  deliberative , seems a misnomer.) But how can man be exhorted to  have peace with God? To be  reconciled to God, he may, 2 Corinthians 5:20 ; but of this there is no mention here, and  having (been allowed to believe in and enjoy)  peace with God , depends on, not  our reconciliation to Him, not any thing subjective in ourselves, but the objective fact of  His reconciliation to us . If, as tome say, ( ἔχωμεν = κατέχωμεν , Hebrews 10:23 , the article would be required before εἰρήνην , and (perhaps) before πρὸς or διὰ . Besides which there are two objections in the  form of the sentence to this reading: (1) ἔχ . is coupled by καὶ ( δι ʼ οὗ καί ) to ἐσχήκαμεν , and this connexion necessitates, in my view, that the first verb should  assert a fact , as the second undoubtedly does. With the former verb in the subjunctive we should hardly have expected the καί where it is. (2) If ἔχωμεν be hortatory, καυχώμεθα , in Romans 5:2 , must be so likewise: (for if we were exhorted to the  lesser degree of confidence, εἰρήνην ἔχειν , such exhortation can hardly be founded on the existence already of the  greater degree, καυχᾶσθαι κ . τ . λ .) which, both as to sense and construction, is very improbable. I believe (but see below) an account of the reading may be sought, as in 1 Corinthians 15:49 , in a tendency of those who transcribed some of our MSS. to give such assertions a  hortatory , or, where interrogative, a  deliberative form : thus we have σωθησώμεθα in some MSS., Romans 5:10 , ζήσωμεν , ch. Romans 6:2 , πιστεύωμεν or πιστεύσωμεν , and συνζήσωμεν , ch. Romans 6:8 , ὑπακούσατε , ch. Romans 6:17 , προσεύξωμαι (bis), 1 Corinthians 14:15 , πείθωμεν , 2 Corinthians 5:11 , πιστεύωμεν , John 4:42 , συνζήσωμεν and συμβασιλεύσωμεν , 2 Timothy 2:11-12 : or perhaps the whole ground of the account to be given of the  ω is better shifted to a more general habit of the MSS. (even the greatest and best, see instances in prolegg. to Vol. I. ch. vi. § 1:36, 37) to confound ο and ω : so that in very many cases, such variation can hardly be called a different reading at all.
	The whole passage is  declaratory of the consequences flowing from justification by faith , and  does not exhort, but assert . Nor, would it seem, does the place for exhortation arrive, till these consequences have been in the fullest and freest manner set forth, indeed so fully and freely, that the objection arising from their supposed abuse has first to be answered.  Being therefore justified (‘  having been justified :’ it is an  act past on the Christian, not like sanctification, an abiding and increasing work)  by (as the ground)  faith, let us (believers in Christ: I render the  existing text )  have peace (‘reconcilement;’ the opposite of ὀργή , see Rom 5:9 )  with (‘in regard of,’ see reff.)  God through (by means of)  our Lord Jesus Christ . With regard to the nature of this peace (=  state of reconciliation , ‘no more condemnation,’ as ch. Rom 8:1 ) see above, on the reading ἔχωμεν .