 13. ] How, consistently with ch. Romans 4:15 , could all men sin,  before the law ? This is now explained.  For up to (the time of) the law (= ἀπὸ Ἀδ . μέχρι Μωυς . Romans 5:14 ; not ‘  during the time of the law ,’ as Orig [33] , Chrys., τοῦ νόμου δοθέντος , … ἕως ὁ νόμος ἦν , Theodoret, an allowable rendering of the words, but manifestly inconsistent with the sense; nor, ‘  as far as there was law, there was sin ,’ as Dr. Burton, which is both inadmissible from the μέχρι Μωυσέως following, and would not answer to the simple matter of fact, ἦν ἐν κόσμῳ )  there was sin in the world (‘men sinned,’ see Genesis 6:5-13 ; committed actual sin: not, men were  accounted sinners because of Adam’s sin; the Apostle reminds us of the  historical fact , that  there was sin in the world during this period):  but sin is not reckoned (as transgression)  where the law is not .
	 [33] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 ἐλλογεῖται has given rise to much dispute. Very many Commentators (Aug [34] , Ambr [35] , Luth., Melanc., Calv., Beza, Rückert, Tholuck, Stuart, al.) explain it of  consciousness of sin by the sinner himself , as in ch. Romans 7:7 ; but (1) as De Wette observes, this is not the natural sense of the word, which implies TWO parties, one of whom sets down something to the account of the other (ref.): (2) this interpretation would bring in a new and irrelevant element, for the Apostle is not speaking in this chapter at all of  subjective human consciousness , but throughout of  objective truths with regard to the divine dealings: and (3) it would be altogether inconsistent with the declarations of ch. Romans 2:15 , where in this sense the ἐλλογισμός of sin by the νόμον μὴ ἔχοντες distinctly asserted.
	 [34]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [35]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397
	I am persuaded that the right sense of ἐλλ . is,  reckoned , ‘  set down as transgression ,’ ‘put in formal account,’  by God . In the case of those who had not the written law, ἁμαρτία is not formally reckoned as παράβασις , set over against the command: but in a certain sense, as distinctly proved ch. Romans 2:9-16 , it  is reckoned and they are condemned for it. Nor is there any inconsistency, as Tholuck complains, in this view. Other passages of Paul’s writings support and elucidate it. He states the object of the law to be, ch. Romans 7:13 , ἵνα γένηται καθ ʼ ὑπερβολὴν ἁμαρτωλὸς ἡ ἁμαρτία διὰ τῆς ἐντολῆς . The revelation of the law  exaggerated , brought into prominent and formal manifestation, the sinfulness of sin, which  was before culpable and punishable , but in a less degree. With this view also agree Acts 17:30 ; ch. Romans 2:12 , ὅσοι ἀνόμως ἥμαρτον , ἀνόμως καὶ ἀπολοῦνται , and Romans 3:25 , in so far as they state an analogous case. The objection to taking οὐκ ἐλλογεῖται  relatively, ‘is not fully reckoned ,’ will hardly be urged by those who bear in mind the Apostle’s habit of constantly  stating relative truths as positive , omitting the qualifying particles: see e.g. ch. Romans 7:7 , where with ἁμαρτίαν and with οὐκ ᾔδειν both, we must supply qualifications (see notes there).