 12. ] This verse is one of acknowledged difficulty. The two questions meeting us directly are (1) To what does διὰ τοῦτο refer? (2) ὥσπερ , ‘like as,’ may introduce the first member of a comparison, the second being to be discovered; or may introduce the second, the first having to be discovered. I shall endeavour to answer both questions in connexion. (1) I conceive διὰ τοῦτο to refer to that blessed state of confidence and hope just described: ‘on this account,’ here meaning, ‘quæ cum ita sint:’ ‘this state of things, thus brought about, will justify the following analogy.’ Thus we must take ὥσπερ , either ( α ) as beginning the comparison, and then supply, ‘so by Christ in His Resurrection came justification into the world, and by justification, life;’ or ( β ) as concluding the comparison, and supply before it, ‘it was,’ or ‘Christ wrought.’ This latter method seems to me far the best. For none of the endeavours of Commentators to supply the second limb of the comparison from the following verses have succeeded: and we can hardly suppose such an ellipsis, when the next following comparison ( Rom 5:16 ) is rather a  weakening than a strengthening the analogy. We have example of this use of ὥσπερ , in Matthew 25:14 , and of καθώς , Galatians 3:6 .
	 Consequently (the method of God’s procedure in introducing life by righteousness resembled the introduction of death by sin: ‘it was’)  like as by one man (the Apostle regards the  man as involving generic succession and transmitting the corrupt seed of sin,  not the woman : but when he speaks of the  personal share which each had in the transgression, 1 Timothy 2:14 , he says, ‘Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression’)  sin (as a POWER ruling over mankind, see ch. Romans 3:9 , and Romans 5:21 , partly as a  principle which exists in us all, and developes itself in our conduct, partly as a  state in which we are involved; but the idea here must not be  confined (Calv.) to  original sin , as it reaches much wider, to sin both original and actual: nor to the  habit of sinning (as Olsh.): nor is it merely the  propensity to sin (as Röthe): nor is sin  personified merely as in ch. Romans 7:8 ; Rom 7:11 )  entered into the world (not ‘esse cœpit,’ ‘primum commissa est,’ as Reiche, Fritz., and Meyer: but  literally , ‘entered into,’ ‘gained access into,’ the  moral world , for sin involves moral responsibility. So Galatians 3:23 , πρὸ τοῦ δὲ  ἐθλεῖν τὴν πίστιν , ‘before the faith  came in ’),  and by means of sin (as the appointed penalty for sin, Genesis 2:17 ; Gen 3:19 )  death (primarily, but not  only , physical death: as ἁμαρτία , so θάνατος , is  general , including the lesser in the greater, i.e.  spiritual and eternal death . See ch. Romans 6:16 ; Romans 6:21 ; Romans 7:10 ; Rom 8:6 ; 2Co 7:10 ),  and thus (by this entering in of sin and death; i. e, in fact, by this  connexion of sin and death , as appears by ἐφ ʼ ᾧ πάντες ἥμαμτον )  death (whether ὁ θάν . be genuine or not, death is the subject of διῆλθεν )  extended to all men (see reff. De W. well says that πάντ . ἀνθρ . differs from κόσμον , as the concrete part from the abstract whole, and διέρχ . from εἰσέρχεσθαι , as the going from house to house differs from the entering a town.
	Obs., that although the subject of διῆλθεν is plainly only  death , not  sin and death , yet the spreading of  sin over all men is  taken for granted , partly in the οὕτως , partly in the following clause),  because ( ἐφ ʼ ᾧ , lit. of close juxtaposition: and so ‘  on ground of,’ ‘on condition that ,’ which meaning, if rightly applied, suits the case in hand.  Life depended on a certain condition, viz. obedience:  Death on another, viz. disobedience. Mankind have disobeyed; the condition of Death’s entrance and diffusion has been fulfilled: Death extended to all men, as a consequence of the fact, that, posito, that, =  because , all have sinned.
	Orig [30] , Aug [31] , Beza, and Estius render it as Vulg., ‘  in quo ’ (Adam): Chrys., Theophyl., Œc [32] , Elsner, ‘  propter quem :’ Grot., ‘  per quem ’) all sinned (see ch. Romans 3:23 : not ‘  were sinful ,’ or ‘  were born in sin ,’ as Calvin would restrict the meaning:  sin , as above remarked, is here, throughout, both  original and  actual : in the  seed , as planted in the nature by the sin of our forefather: and in the  fruit , as developed by each conscious responsible individual in his own practice. So that Calvin’s argument, ‘hic non agi de actuali peccato, colligere promptum est: quia si reatum quisque sibi arcesseret, quorsum conferret Paulus Adam cum Christo?’ does not apply, and the objection is answered by Paul himself, where he says, distinguishing between the παράπτωμα and the χάρισμα below, Romans 5:15-16 , τὸ δὲ χάρισμα  ἐκ πολλῶν παραπτωμάτων εἰς δικαίωμα . The παράπτωμα was not only that of one, the original cause of the entry of sin, but the often repeated sins of individual men: nor, ‘  suffered the punishment of sin ,’ as Grot. and Chrys., θνητοὶ γεγόνασι ).
	 [30] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [31]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [32] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	Observe how entirely this assertion of the Apostle contradicts the Pelagian or individualistic view of men, that each is a separate creation from God, existing solely on his own exclusive responsibility, and affirms the Augustinian or traducian view, that all are evolved by God’s appointment from an original stock, and though individually responsible, are generically involved in the corruption and condemnation of their original.