 16. ]  Distinction the second , in KIND. The former difference was quantitative: this is modal.  And not as (that which took place)  by one that sinned, so is the gift .
	It is a question whether any thing, and what, is to be supplied before δι ʼ ἑνὸς ἁμαρτ . Röthe, Meyer, and Tholuck (and so E. V.), would supply nothing, and render, ‘And not as by one having sinned, so is the gift.’ But (De W.) this has against it, (1) that since the γάρ following  gives the reason for this sentence, this must  contain implicitly all that that next expands in detail; which is not merely the distinction between springing from  one man and out of  many offences , but much more: and (2) that thus διὰ would = ἐκ or  vice versa , whereas διὰ characterizes the  bringer in , and ἐκ the  occasion . Others have supplied τὸ κρῖμα (Bengel, Köllner): τὸ κατάκριμα (Theophyl., Reiche): ὁ θάνατος εἰσῆλθεν (Grot., Estius, Koppe): but inasmuch as it is purposely left indefinite, to be explained in the next verse, it is better to supply an indefinite phrase which may be thus explained: e.g. το γενόμενον , ‘  that which took place by one ,’ [or ‘(  it was )  through one ,’] &c.
	 τὸ μὲν γὰρ κ . τ . λ .]  For the judgment (pronounced by God upon Adam)  came of (was by occasion of)  one (man having sinned, supply ἁμαρτήσαντος : παραπτώματος would be hardly allowable, and would not help the sense, inasmuch as many  sinners , as well as many sins, are implied in πολλ . παραπτ . below),  unto condemnation (its result, in his own case and that of his posterity: supply, as in Rom 5:18 is expressed, ( ἐγένετο ) εἰς πάντας ἀνθρώπους );  but the gift of grace was by occasion of many transgressions (where sin abounded, Romans 5:20 , there grace much more abounded: the existence of  the law being implied in παραπτ .)  unto justification . The only difficulty here is  the sense of  δικαίωμα . The ordinary meaning of the word is τὸ ἐπανόρθωμα τοῦ ἀδικήματος , ‘the amendment of an evil deed:’ so Aristotle, Eth. Nicom. Romans 5:10 , διαφέρει δὲ τὸ ἀδίκημα καὶ τὸ ἄδικον , καὶ τὸ δικαίωμα καὶ τὸ δίκαιον · ἄδικον μὲν γάρ ἐστι τῇ φύσει ἢ τάξει · τὸ αὐτὸ δὲ τοῦτο ὅταν πραχθῇ , ἀδίκημά ἐστι · πρὶν δὲ πραχθῆναι οὔπω , ἀλλ ʼ ἄδικον . ὁμοίως δὲ καὶ δικαίωμα · καλεῖται δὲ καὶ τὸ κοινὸν μᾶλλον δικαιοπράγημα , δικαίωμα δὲ τὸ ἐπανόρθωμα τοῦ ἀδικήματος . But this, which Aristot. insists on as the proper, but not perhaps usual sense of the word, is not to be pressed in the N. T., and does not, though upheld by Calv., Calov., Wolf, and Röthe, suit the context as contrasted with κατάκριμα . Other renderings are, ‘  an absolutory sentence ’ (Meyer, Fritz., al.): ‘  a righteous act ,’ as in Romans 5:18 ; Bar 2:19 ; ‘  righteousness ,’ as in Revelation 19:8 (where see note): ‘  a righteous cause ,’ or  plea (LXX, Jer 11:20 ): ‘  justification ’ (E. V., Luth., De Wette, al.). The first seems to me to be right, as standing most exactly in contrast with κατάκριμα ; the use of the - μα being partly perhaps accounted for by the alliteration of the ending marking more strongly the antithesis. Thus as κατάκριμα is a  sentence of condemnation , so δικαίωμα will be a  sentence of acquittal . This in fact amounts to  justification .