 19. ]  For (in explanation of Rom 5:18 )  as by the disobedience of (the) one man the many (= πάντες ἄνθρωποι , but not so expressed here, because in the other limb of the comparison πάντ . ἄνθρ . could not be put, and this is conformed to it: see there)  were made (not, ‘  were accounted as ’ (Grot. al.): nor ‘  became by imputation ’ (Beza, Bengel): nor ‘  were proved to be ’ (Koppe, Reiche, Fritz.): see reff.)  sinners (not ὑπεύθυνοι κολἀσει , as Chrys., Theophyl.: ‘  actual sinners by practice ,’ is meant, the disobedience of Adam having been the  inlet to all this: compare ἐφ ʼ ᾡ πάντες ἥμαρτον Rom 5:12 and the notes, on the  kind of sin spoken of in this whole passage, as being both original and actual),  so also (after the same manner or analogy likewise)  by means of the obedience (unto death, see on last verse) of (the)  One (man)  shall (  future , because, as in ch. Romans 3:30 , justification, as regards the many, is  not yet completed . De W.)  the many (= πολλοί , compare Matthew 26:28 ; Mark 10:45 , but thus expressed because πολλοί would not have answered in the other limb of the comparison.  In order to make the comparison more strict , the πάντες who have been made sinners are  weakened to the indefinite οἱ πολλοί , the πολλοί who shall be made righteous are  enlarged to the indefinite οἱ πολλοί . Thus a  common term of quantity is found  for both , the one  extending to its largest numerical interpretation, the other  restricted to its smallest )  be made (see above)  righteous (not by  imputation merely, any more than in the other case: but ‘shall be made really and actually righteous, as completely so as the others were made really and actually sinners.’ When we say that man has no righteousness  of his own , we speak of him as  out of Christ : but  in Christ and united to Him, he is  made righteous , not by a fiction, or  imputation only of Christ’s righteousness, but by a real and living spiritual union with a righteous Head as a righteous member, righteous  by means of , as an effect of, the righteousness of that Head, but not merely righteous by transference of the Righteousness of that Head; just as in his natural state he is united to a sinful head as a sinful member, sinful by means of, as an effect of, the sinfulness of that Head, but not merely  by transference of the sinfulness of that Head).
	See the whole question respecting πάντες and οἱ πολλοί treated in Tholuck’s Comm. in loc.