 14. ]  But (notwithstanding the last assertion that sin is not fully reckoned where the law is not)  death reigned (was a power to which all succumbed)  from Adam to Moses ( μέχρι Μωυς . = ἄχρι νόμου above): i.e. although the full ἐλλογισμός of sin did not take place between Adam and Moses,  the universality of death is a proof that all sinned , for death is the consequence of sin: in confirmation of Romans 5:12 .
	 καὶ ἐπὶ τ  .   μὴ ἁμ  . ]  even (notwithstanding the different degrees of sin and guilt out of, and under, the law)  over those who sinned not according to the similitude (reff.)  of the TRANSGRESSION  of Adam. (1) ἐπὶ τῷ ὁμ . belongs to ἁμαρτ . and not to  ἐβασί λευσεν (as Chrys., Theophyl., Bengel, Elsn., al.), for that would bring in, in the words τοὺς μὴ ἁμαρτήσαντας , an absolute contradiction to ἐφ ʼ ᾧ πάντες ἥμαρτον , by asserting that there were some who  did not sin . (2) The emphasis lies on  παράβασις , as distinguished from  ἁμαρτία . Photius (in De W.), ὁ μὲν ( Ἀδ .) ὡρισμένην κ . νομοθετηθεῖσαν ἐντολὴν παρέβη κ . ἥμαρτεν · οἱ δὲ ἡμάρτανον τὸν αὐτοδίδακτον τῆς φύσεως λόγον ἐνυβρίζοντες . They all  sinned: but had not, like Adam,  transgressed a positive revealed command. (3) There is no reference here, as some Commentators (Beza, al.) have supposed, to the case of  children and  idiots , nor (as Grot., Wetst.)  to those who lived pious lives . The aim is to prove, that the seed of sin planted in the race by the one man Adam, has sprung up and borne fruit in all, so as to bring them under death; death temporal, and spiritual; of these, some have sinned without the law, i.e.  not as Adam did, and as those after Moses did: and though sin is not formally reckoned against them, death, the consequence of sin, reigned, as matter of historical fact, over them also. It is most important to the clear understanding of this weighty passage to bear in mind, that the first member of the comparison,  as far as it extends, is this: ‘As by Adam’s transgression, of which we are by descent inheritors, we have become (not by imputation merely, but by propensity)  sinners , and have thus incurred  death , so &c.’ … (see below).
	 ὅς ἐστιν τύπος τ  .   μέλλ  . ]  who is a figure (or type: not thus used by LXX, see Umbreit’s note)  of the future (Adam [the second Adam, viz. Christ]). This clause is inserted on the first mention of the name Adam, the  one man of whom he has been speaking, to recall the purpose for which he is treating of him, as  the figure (ref.)  of Christ .  τοῦ μέλλ ., not ‘qui futurus erat,’ as Beza [and E. V.], Reiche; but spoken from the Apostle’s  present standing, ‘  who is to come .’ The fulfilment of the type will then take place completely, when, as 1 Corinthians 15:22 , ἐν τῷ χριστῷ πάντες ζωοποιηθήσονται . Still less, with Koppe, can ὅς be taken by attr. for ὅ , and τοῦ μέλλοντος be interpreted ‘  of that which is to come ,’ viz. life and salvation: see 1 Corinthians 15:45 .
	Many suppose these words ὅς ἐστ . τύπ . τ . μέλλ . to be the apodosis of Romans 5:12 ; but see there.