 17. ]  Distinction the third , also in KIND; that which came in by the  one sinner , was the  reign of DEATH: that which shall come in by the  One, Jesus Christ , will be  a reigning in LIFE.  For (carrying on the argument from Romans 5:15 , but not so as to make parenthetical (Röthe) Rom 5:16 for δικαιοσύνης presupposes δικαίωμα )  if by the transgression of the one (man; the reading ἐν ( τῷ ) ἑνὶ παραπτώματι goes with ἁμαρτήματος for ἁμαρτήσαντος in Romans 5:16 ; both have evidently been corrections)  death reigned by means of the one (man),  much more (logical  a fortiori )  shall they who receive the abundance of the grace and of the gift of righteousness (Romans 5:15 ; beware of the shallow and weakening notion, that it is “for τῆς δικαιοσύνης δεδωρημένης ”)  reign in life (eternal)  by means of the one (Man)  Jesus Christ .
	περισσεία answers to ἐπερίσσευσεν , Romans 5:15 ; τῆς χάριτος , to ἡ χ . τοῦ θεοῦ ; only here, as at ch. Romans 1:5 , the word signifies not only the grace flowing from God, but the same grace implanted and working in man: δωρεᾶς , to δωρεά there, but qualified by τῆ δικαιοσύνης , answering to δικαίωμα in Romans 5:16 .
	The present λαμβάνοντες , instead of λαβόντες , is not merely used in a substantive sense,  receptores (as Fritz. and Meyer), but signifies that the reception is not  one act merely, but a  continued process by which the περισσεία is imparted. (So Röthe, De W., Thol.)
	 ἐν ζωῇ βας  . ] “Antithesis to ὁ θάνατος ἐβας . We should expect ἡ ζωὴ βασιλεύσει , but Paul designedly changes the form of expression that he may bring more prominently forward the idea of free personality. ζωή is not only corporeal (the resurrection), but also spiritual and moral, as also in θάνατος we must include διὰ τῆς ἁμαρτίας Romans 5:12 . βασιλεύσουσιν is brought in by the antithesis: but it is elsewhere used (see reff.) to signify the state of blessedness, partly in an objective theocratic import (of the reign of the saints with Christ), partly in a subjective moral one, because  reigning is the highest development of freedom, and the highest satisfaction of all desires.” De Wette.