 20 .]  How the law (of Moses)  came in, in the divine economy .  But (i.e. the two things spoken of Rom 5:19 did not  simply and  immediately happen)  the law (of Moses: not  law , in the abstract, nor ‘  the law of nature ,’ as Dr. Peile, nor even  the law of God in its  general sense, as often in ch. 1 2; but here strictly THE LAW OF MOSES, as necessitated by Rom 5:13-14 in this same argument)  came in besides (besides the fact of the many being made sinners, and as a transition point to the other result: formed a  third term , besides these two, in the summary of God’s dealings with man: compare προσετέθη , Galatians 3:19 ; not πρὸς καιρὸν ἐδόθη , Theophyl.: not,  came in between Christ and Adam (the  fact , but not the  interpretation ) as Theodoret and Calv.: not = εἰσῆλθεν merely),  in order that ( τελικῶς , its  design , not merely ἐκβατικῶς , its result, as Chrys., al.; here, and every where else. So of Rom 5:21 )  the trespass (  created by the law; for where no law, no transgression, ch. Romans 4:15 : not merely the  knowledge of sin , but  actual transgression)  might be multiplied (in  actual fact : not ‘be abundantly exhibited,’ or any such evasive sense). No possible objection can be taken to this statement by those who view the Law as a preparation for Christ. If it was so, then the effect of the Law, the creating and multiplying transgression, was  an end in the divine purposes , to bring out the necessity of One who should deliver from sin and bring in righteousness. “Those who weaken this telic ἵνα into ‘so that,’ in order to guard the Apostle from what seems to them a doctrine unworthy of God, overlook equally his firm standing on the acknowledged ground of historic fact and actuality, as the humility with which here, as ever (ch. Rom 11:33-34 ), he bows before the mystery of the οἰκονομία τοῦ θεοῦ .” Umbreit.  But (this terrible end, the multiplying of transgression, was not, however, God’s  ultimate end: He had a further and gracious one)  where (‘  when ,’ De Wette, after Grot., al.: but Tholuck justly remarks that instances of this meaning of οὗ in  prose are wanting. In verse it seems to occur, Eur. Iph. Aul. 96, but even there may be rendered ‘  in the case where ’)  sin (the generic of the specific παράπτωμα )  was multiplied , (God’s)  grace did beyond measure abound (not ‘  did much more abound ,’ as E. V.: for words compounded with ὑπέρ have a  superlative, not a comparative signification, e.g. ref. ὑπερλίαν ὑπερνικάω , ὑπερυψόω κ . τ . λ ., and Paul often uses these compounds. The E. V. has likewise destroyed the force of the comparison by rendering the different words πλεονάζω and περισσεύω both by one word ‘  abound ’).