 10 .]  that (general purpose of the whole: more properly to be referred perhaps to  ἐδόθη than to any other one word in the last two verses. For this sublime cause the humble Paul was raised up, to bring about, he, the least worthy of the saints, that to the heavenly powers themselves should be made known, by means of those whom he was empowered to enlighten, &c. Cf. Chrys.: καὶ τοῦτο δὲ χάριτος ἦν , τὸ τὸν μικρὸν τὰ μείζονα ἐγχειρισθῆναι , τὸ γενέσθαι τούτων εὐαγγελιστήν )  there might be made known (emphatic, as opposed to  ἀποκεκρ  . above ‘no longer hidden, but …’)  now (has the secondary emphasis: opposed to ἀπὸ τῶν αἰώνων )  to the governments and to the (Stier notices the repetition of the article. It perhaps here does not so much separate the two  ἀρχαί and  ἐξ  . as different classes, as serve to elevate the fact for solemnity’s sake)  powers (see ch. Eph 1:21 and note)  in the heavenly places (see ch. Eph 1:3 note. The  ἀρχ  . and  ἐξ  . are those of the holy angels in heaven; not, as has been vainly imagined,  Jewish rulers (Locke, Schöttg.):  Christian rulers (Pel.):  good and bad angels (Beng., Olsh.). These are excluded, not by ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρανίοις , see ch. Ephesians 6:12 , but by the general tenor of the passage, as Ellic., who adds well: “evil angels more naturally recognize the  power , good angels the  wisdom of God”)  by means of the Church ( ὅτε ἡμεῖς ἐμάθομεν , τότε κἀκεῖνοι δι ʼ ἡμῶν , Chrys. See also Luke 15:10 ; 1 Peter 1:12 : and cf. Calvin’s note here. “That the holy angels are capable of a specific increase of knowledge, and of a deepening insight into God’s wisdom, seems from this passage clear and incontrovertible.” Ellic. “Vide, quantus honos hominum, quod hæc arcana consilia per ipsos, maxime per apostolos, Deus innotescere angelis voluit. Ideo angeli post hoc tempus nolunt ab apostolis coli tanquam in ministerio majore collocatis, Revelation 19:10 , et merito.” Grot. But as Stier well notices, it is not by the Apostles directly, nor by human preaching, that the Angels are instructed in God’s wisdom, but by the Church; by the fact of the great spiritual body, constituted in Christ, which they contemplate, and which is to them the θέατρον τῆς δόξης τοῦ θεοῦ )  the manifold ( πολυποίκιλος , so far from being a word found only here (Harl., Stier), occurs in Eur., Iph. Taur. 1149, πολυποίκιλα φάρεα : in a fragment of Eubulus, Ath. xv. 7, p. 679, στέφανον πολυποίκιλον ἀνθέων , and twice in the Orphic hymns, in this figurative sense: πολυποίκιλος τελετή , Ephesians 3:11 ; π . λόγος , lx. 4)  wisdom of God (  how is the wisdom of God  πολυποίκιλος ? It is all  one in sublime unity of truth and purpose: but cannot be apprehended by finite minds in this its unity, and therefore is by Him variously portioned out to each finite race and finite capacity of individuals so that the Church is a mirror of God’s wisdom, chromatic, so to speak, with the rainbow colours of that light which in itself is one and undivided. Perhaps there was in the Apostle’s mind, when he chose this word, an allusion to the πτέρυγες περιστερᾶς περιηργυρωμέναι καὶ τὰ μετάφρενα αὐτῆς ἐν χλωρότητι χρυσίου , the adornment of the ransomed church, in Ps. 67:13. See Hebrews 1:1 ; 1Pe 4:10 ),