 16 .]  that (see on  ἵνα after words of beseeching, &c., note, 1 Corinthians 14:13 . The purpose and purport of the prayer are blended in it)  He may give you, according to the riches of His glory (specifies  δῷ , not what follows: give you, in full proportion to the abundance of His own glory His own infinite perfections),  to be strengthened with might (the dative has been taken in several ways: 1) adverbially, ‘  mightily ,’ as βίᾳ εἰς οἰκίαν παριέναι , Xen. Cyr. i. 2. 2, to which Meyer objects, that thus  δύναμις would be strength on the side of the bestower rather than of the receiver, whereas the contrast with ἐγκακεῖν (?) requires the converse. This hardly seems sufficient to disprove the sense: 2) dative of the  form or  shape in which the κρατ . was to take place (Harl, al.), as in χρήμασι δυνατοὶ εἶναι , Xen. Mem. ii. 7. 7, to which Meyer replies that thus the κραταιωθῆναι would only apply to one department of the spiritual life, instead of to all. But this again seems to me not valid: for ‘  might ,’ ‘  power ,’ is not one faculty, but a qualification of all faculties. Rather I should say that such a meaning would involve a tautology ‘strengthened in strength.’ 3) the instrumental dative is maintained by Mey., De W., al., and this view seems the best: ‘  with (His)  might ,’ imparted to you)  by His Spirit (as the instiller and imparter of that might)  into (not merely ‘in,’ but ‘  to and into ,’ as Ellic.: importing “the direction and destination of the prayed for gift of infused strength.” κραταιοῖ , κατοικίζων εἰς τὸν χωροῦντα ἔσω ἄνθρωπον τὸν χριστόν , Schol. in Cramer’s Catena. Similarly Orig., ὥστε εἰς τ . ἔσ . ἄνθ . κατοικῆσαι τ . χριστὸν διὰ τῆς πίστεως , ib. Both rightly, as far as the idea of infusing into is concerned: but clearly wrong, as are the Gr.-ff. in general, in taking  εἰς τ  .   ἔσ  .   ἄνθ  . with what follows, thus making  ἐν ταῖς καρδ  .   ὑμ  . tautological, or giving to  διὰ τῆς πίστεως ἐν ταῖς καρδίαις ὑμῶν the meaning, ‘  through the faith which is in your hearts ,’ which it cannot bear)  the inner man (the spiritual man the noblest portion of our being, kept, in the natural man, under subjection to the flesh (reff.), but in the spiritual, renewed by the Spirit of God)  that (continuation, not of the prayer merely, not from  δῷ , as the strong word  κατοικῆσαι , emphatically placed, sufficiently shews, but from  κραταιωθῆναι , and that as its result (see Orig. above: not its purpose, τοῦ κατ .). See a similar construction Col 1:10 )  Christ may dwell (emphatic; abide, take up His lasting abode: ‘summa sit, non procul intuendum esse Christum fide, sed recipiendum esse animæ nostræ complexu, ut in nobis habitet,’ Calv.)  by your faith (apprehending Him, and opening the door to Him, see John 14:23 ; Rev 3:20 and keeping Him there)  in your hearts (“partem etiam designat ubi legitima est Christi sedes; nempe cor: ut sciamus, non satis esse, si in lingua versetur, aut in cerebro volitet.” Calv.),  ye having been (Beza, Grot., al., and Meyer (and so E. V.), join the participles with the following ἵνα , justifying the trajection by Galatians 2:10 ; 2 Thessalonians 2:7 ; Act 19:4 al. But those cases are not parallel, as in every one of them the prefixed words carry especial emphasis, which here they cannot do. We must therefore regard the clause as an instance of the irregular nominative (see ch. Ephesians 4:2 ; Colossians 2:2 , and reff. there) adopted to form an easy transition to that which follows. Meyer strongly objects to this, that the participles are  perfect , not present, which would be thus logically required. But surely this last is a mistake. It is upon the completion, not upon the progress, of their rooting and grounding in love, that the next clause depends. So Orig., Chrys., all., and Harl., De W., and Ellic.)  rooted and grounded (both images, that of a tree, and that of a building, are supposed to have been before the Apostle’s mind. But ῥιζόω was so constantly used in a figurative sense (see examples in Palm and Rost sub voce) as hardly perhaps of necessity to suggest its primary image. Lucian uses both words together, de Saltat. 34 (Wetst.), ὥσπερ τινὲς ῥίζαι κ . θεμέλιοι τῆς ὀρχήσεως ἦσαν )  in love (love, generally not merely αὐτοῦ , as Chrys., nor ‘  qua diligimur a Deo ,’ Beza; nor need we supply ‘in Christ’ after the participles, thus disconnecting them from ἐν ἀγ ., as Harl.: but as Ellic. well says, “This (love) was to be their basis and foundation, in (on?) which alone they were to be fully enabled to realize all the majestic proportions of Christ’s surpassing love to man”),  that ye may be fully able (ref.: ἡ ἐπιμέλεια πολλάκις καὶ τῆς φύσεως ἐξίσχυσεν ἐπιλειπούσης , Strabo, xvii. p. 788 (417 Tauchn.))  to comprehend (reff. “many middle forms are distinguished from their actives only by giving more the idea of earnestness or spiritual energy: ἠριθμοῦντο πολλοὶ ἅμα τὰς ἐπιβολάς , Thucyd. iii. 20: οὕτω δεῖ περὶ παντὸς σκοπεῖν · ὅταν γάρ τι ταύτῃ σκοπούμενος ἕλῃς , οὕτως ἔμφρων περὶ τοῦτο γέγονας . Plato.” Krüger, griech. Sprachlehre, § 52. 4)  with all the saints (all the people of God, in whom is fulfilled that which is here prayed for)  what is the breadth and length and height and depth (all kinds of fanciful explanations have been given of these words. One specimen may be enough: ἐσχημάτισεν ὥσπερ τυπικώτερον εἰς σταυροῦ τύπον .  βάθος γὰρ καὶ ὕψος καὶ μῆκος καὶ πλάτος , τί ἕτερον ἂν εἴη , ἢ τοῦ σταυροῦ φύσις ; διπλοῦν δέ που ἔοικε τὸν σταυρὸν λέγειν , οὐχ ἁπλῶς · ἀλλ ʼ ἐπειδὴ ἡ μὲν τοῦ κυρίου οἰκονομία θεότης ἐστὶν ἄνωθεν , καὶ ἀνθρωπότης κάτωθεν , τὸ δὲ κήρυγμα ἀποστολικὸν διέτεινεν ἀπὸ ἄρκτου εἰς μεσημβρίαν καὶ ἀπὸ ἀνατολῆς εἰς δύσιν , συναγαγὼν καὶ κυρίου τὴν οἰκονομίαν καὶ τῶν ἀποστόλων ὑπηρεσίαν · τὸ διπλοῦν τῆς οἰκονομίας , ὡς ἐν διπλῳ τῷ σταυρῷ ἐπιδεικνύμενος , οὕτως εἶπεν . Severianus, in Cramer’s Catena. Similarly Origen, ib., Jer., Aug., Anselm, Aquin., Est. (‘longitudo temporum est, latitudo Iocorum, altitudo gloriæ, profunditas discretionis’). Numerous other explanations, geometrical, architectural, and spiritual, may be seen in Corn.-a-lap., Pole’s Synops., and Eadie. The latter, as also Bengel and Stier, see an allusion to the Church as the temple of God Chandler and Macknight to the temple of Diana at Ephesus. Both are in the highest degree improbable. Nor can we quite say that the object of the sentence is  the love of Christ (Calv., Mey., Ellicott, al.): for that is introduced in a subordinate clause by and by (see on  τε below): rather, with De W., that the genitive after these nouns is left indefinite that you may be fully able to comprehend every dimension scil., of all that God has revealed or done in and for us (= τὸ μυστήριον τ . θεοῦ , Col 2:2 ) though this is not a genitive  to be supplied , but lying in the background entirely)  and (  τε introduces not a parallel, but a subordinate clause. Of this Hartung, i. p. 105, gives many examples. Eur. Hec. 1186, ὅτ ʼ εὐτύχει | Τροία , πέριξ δὲ πύργος εἶχ ʼ ἔτι πτόλιν , | ἔζη τε Πρίαμος , Ἕκτορός τ ʼ ἤνθει δόρυ : Med. 642, ὦ πατρίς , δῶμά τ ʼ ἐμόν . So that the knowledge here spoken of is not identical with the  καταλαβέσθαι above, but forms one portion of it, and by its surpassing excellence serves to exalt still more that great whole to which it belongs)  to know the knowledge-passing (  τῆς γνώσεως , genitive of comparison after ὑπερβ ., as in διπλήσιος ἑωϋτοῦ , Herod. viii. 137, οὐδενὸς ὕστερος , Plato, Tim. p. 20 A. See Kühner, ii. § 540.  γνῶναι  …   γνώσεως are chosen as a paradox,  γνώσεως being taken in the sense of ‘  mere,’ ‘bare’ knowledge (ref.), and  γνῶναι in the pregnant sense of that knowledge which is rooted and grounded in love, Php 1:9 )  Love of Christ (subjective genitive;  Christ’s Love to us see Rom 5:6 note, and Rom 8:35-39 not ‘  our love to Christ .’ Nor must we interpret with Harl. (and Olsh.), “  to know the Love of Christ more and more as an unsearchable love .” It is not this  attribute of Christ’s Love, but the Love itself, which he prays that they may know),  that ye may be filled even to all the fulness of God ( πᾶν τὸ πλήρωμα τῆς θεότητος abides in Christ, Colossians 2:9 . Christ then abiding in your hearts, ye, being raised up to the comprehension of the vastness of God’s mercy in Him and of His Love, will be filled, even as God is full each in your degree, but all to your utmost capacity, with divine wisdom and might and love. Such seems much the best rendering: and so Chrys. (altern.), ὥστε πληροῦσθαι πάσης ἀρετῆς ἧς πλήρης ἐστὶν ὁ θεός .
	 τοῦ θ  . then is the possessive genitive. The other interpretation taking  θεοῦ as a genitive of origin, and  πλήρωμα for πλῆθος , ‘ut omnibus Dei donis abundetis,’ Est., is not consistent with  εἰς (see above), nor with the force of the passage, which having risen in sublimity with every clause, would hardly end so tamely).