 11 .]  according to (depends on γνωρισθῇ this imparting of the knowledge of God’s manifold wisdom was in accordance with, &c.)  the (not, ‘  a :’ after a preposition, especially when a limiting genitive, as here, follows, the omission of the article can hardly be regarded as affecting the sense)  purpose of (  the )  ages (the genitive is apparently one of time, as when we say, ‘it has been an opinion of years:’ the duration all that time giving the αἰῶνες a kind of possession. If so, the sense is best given in English by ‘  eternal ’ as in E. V.),  which ( πρόθεσιν )  He made (constituted, ordained. So Calv., Beza, Harl., Rück. On the other hand, Thdrt., Grot., Koppe, Olsh, Mey., De W., Stier, Ellic., would apply it to the  carrying out, executing, in its historical realization . I can hardly think that so indefinite a word as ποιέω would have been used to express so very definite an idea, now introduced for the first time, but believe the Apostle would have used some word like ἐπετέλεσεν . Further, we should thus rather expect the perfect; whereas the aorist seems to refer back the act spoken of to the origination of the design. Both senses of ποιέω are abundantly justified: see, for our sense, Mark 15:1 ; Isaiah 29:15 : for the other, ch. Ephesians 2:3 ; Matthew 21:31 ; Joh 6:38 ; 1Th 5:24 al.)  in Jesus our Lord the Christ (or, ‘  in the Christ , (namely)  Jesus our Lord .’ The former is official, the latter personal. It was in his Christ that He made the purpose: and that Christ is Jesus our Lord. The words do not necessarily refer  ἐποίησεν to the  carrying out of the design. They bind together God’s eternal purpose and our present state of access to Him by redemption in Christ, and so close the train of thought of the last eleven verses, by bringing us again home to the sense of our own blessedness in Christ. That he says, ἐν τ . χριστῷ Ἰησ ., does not, as Olsh. and Stier, imply that the act spoken of must necessarily be subsequent to the Incarnation: see ch. Ephesians 1:3-4 : it is the complex personal appellation of the Son of God, taken from, and familiar to us by His incarnation, but applied to Him in His præexistence also),