 1 13 .] (See above.)  On this account (in order to explain this, something must be said on the construction. (a) Chrys. says: εἶπε τοῦ χριστοῦ τὴν κηδεμονίαν τὴν πολλήν · ἐκβαίνει λοιπὸν κ . ἐπὶ τὴν ἑαυτοῦ , μικρὰν μὲν οὖσαν κ . σφόδρα οὐδὲν πρὸς ἐκείνην , ἱκανὴν δὲ καὶ ταύτην ἐπισπάσασθαι . διὰ τοῦτο καὶ ἐγὼ δέδεμαι , φησίν . This supplying of εἰμί after ὁ δέσμιος , and making the latter the predicate, is the rendering of Syr., and adopted by very many. It has against it, 1) that thus τούτου χάριν and ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν become tautological: 2) that thus Eph 3:2 and the following are unconnected with the preceding, serving for no explanation of it (‘legationis, non vinculorum rationem explicat,’ Castalio in Harl.): 3) that the article ὁ with the predicate δέσμιος gives it undue prominence, and exalts the Apostle in a way which would be very unnatural to him, ‘sum captivus  ille Christi,’ as Glass., and inconsistent with εἴ γε ἠκούσατε , &c. following, (b) Erasm.-Schmidt, Hammond, Michael., Winer (and so E. V.) regard the sentence, broken at ἐθνῶν , as resumed at ch. Ephesians 4:1 . Against this is the decisive consideration, that ch. 3. is no parenthesis, but an integral and complete portion of the Epistle, finished moreover with the doxology Ephesians 3:20-21 , and altogether distinct in subject and character from ch. 4. (c) Œc. says (and so Estius and Grot.): ἀνταπόδοσίς ἐστι τούτου χάριν , οἷον · τούτου χ . ἐμοι τῷ ἐλ . π . ἁγ . ἐδόθ . κ . τ . λ . ( Eph 3:8 ) σκόπει δὲ ὅτι ἀρξάμενος τῆς περιόδου κατὰ τὸ ὀρθὸν σχῆμα ἐν τῇ ἀποδόσει ἐπλαγίωσε , σχηματίσας τ . ἀνταπόδοσιν πρὸς τὸν περιβολῶν τύπον . But as Harl. remarks, this deprives τούτου χάριν of meaning: for it was not  because they were built in , &c., that this grace was given to him: and, besides, thus the leading thought of the antapodosis in Eph 3:8 is clumsily forestalled in Ephesians 3:6-7 . (d) The idea that Eph 3:13 resumes the sentence (Camerar., Cramer, al.) is refuted by the insufficiency of such a secondary sentiment as that in Eph 3:13 to justify the long parenthesis full of such solemn matter, as that Ephesians 3:2-12 ; and by the improbability that the Apostle would resume τούτου χάριν by διό , with τούτου χάριν occurring again in the next verse, and not rather have expressed this latter in that case by καί . (e) It remains that with Thdrt. (on Ephesians 3:1 , βούλεται μὲν εἰπεῖν · ὅτι ταύτην ὑμῶν τὴν κλῆσιν εἰδὼς κ . τ . λ . δέομαι κ . ἱκετεύω τὸν τῶν ὅλων θεόν , βεβαιῶσαι ὑμᾶς τῇ πίστει κ . τ . λ ., then on Ephesians 3:14 , ταῦτα πάντα ἐν μέσῳ τεθεικὼς ἀναλαμβάνει τὸν περὶ προσευχῆς λόγον ), Luth., Pisc., Corn.-a-lap., Schöttg., Beng., Rück., Harl., De W., Stier, Ellic., al., we consider Eph 3:14 as taking up the sense, with its repetition of  τούτου χάριν , and the weighty prayer which it introduces, and which forms a worthy justification for so long and solemn a parenthesis,  τούτου χάριν will then mean, ‘seeing ye are so built in,’ stand in such a relation to God’s purposes in the church)  I Paul (he mentions himself here, as introducing to them the agent in the Spirit’s work who was nearest to themselves, and setting forth that work as the carrying on of his enlightenment on their behalf, and the subject of his earnest prayer for them: see argument to this chapter above),  the prisoner (but now without any prominence, or the very slightest: cf. Τιμόθεος ὁ ἀδελφός : it is rather generic, or demonstrative, than emphatic)  of Christ [  Jesus ] (see ref.; χρ . first, because it is not so much personal possession, as the fact of the Messiahship of Jesus having been the cause and origin of his imprisonment, which is expressed by the genitive)  on behalf of you Gentiles (see Ephesians 3:13 , where this ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν is repeated. The matter of fact was so: his preaching to Gentiles aroused the jealousy of the Jews, and led to his imprisonment. But he rather thinks of it as a result of his great office and himself as a sacrifice for those whom it was his intent to benefit),  if, that is ( εἴ γε , ‘assuming that:’ see note on 2 Corinthians 5:3 . The Ephesians  had heard all this, and St. Paul was now delicately reminding them of it. So that to derive from εἴ γε ἠκούσατε an argument against the genuineness of the Epistle, as De Wette does, is mere inattention to philology),  ye heard of (when I was among you: his whole course there, his converse ( Act 20:18-21 ) and his preaching, were just the imparting to them his knowledge)  the œconomy (see note on ch. Ephesians 1:10 . It is not the apostolic office, but the dispensation  munus dispensandi , in which he was an οἰκονόμος , of that which follows)  of the grace of God which was given me (the χάρις δοθεῖσα (beware of joining δοθείσης with οἰκονομίαν by any of the so-called figures) was the material with respect to which the dispensation was to be exercised: so that the genitive is objective as in ch. Eph 1:10 )  towards you (to be dispensed in the direction of, to, you)