 5 .]  which in other generations (dative of time: so Luke 12:20 , ταύτῃ τῇ νυκτὶ τὴν ψυχήν σου ἀπαιτοῦσιν ἀπὸ σοῦ , Mat 16:21 al.: for the temporal meaning of γενεά , see reff.)  was not made known to the sons of men (‘latissima appellatio, causam exprimens ignorantiæ, ortum naturalem, cui opponitur Spiritus,’ Beng.; and to which, remarks Stier, ἁγίοις and αὐτοῦ are further contrasted)  as ( ἐγνωρίσθη μὲν τοῖς πάλαι προφήταις , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ ὡς νῦν · οὐ γὰρ τὰ πράγματα εἶδον , ἀλλὰ τοὺς περὶ τῶν πραγμάτων προέγραψαν λόγους , Thdrt.)  it has been now revealed (we are compelled in the presence of  νῦν , to desert the aorist rendering ‘was revealed,’ which in our language cannot be used in reference to present time. The Greek admits of combining the two. We might do it by a paraphrastic extension of νῦν , ‘as in this present age it was revealed’)  to His holy (see Stier’s remark above. Olshausen says, “It is certainly peculiar, that Paul here calls the Apostles, and consequently himself among them, ‘holy Apostles.’ It is going too far when De W. finds in this a sign of an unapostolic origin of the Epistle: but still the expression remains an unusual one. I account for it to myself thus, that Paul here conceives of the Apostles and Prophets, as a corporation (cf. ch. Eph 4:11 ), and as such, in their official character, he gives them the predicate ἅγιος , as he names believers, conceived as a whole, ἅγιοι or ἡγιασμένοι , but never an individual”)  Apostles and Prophets (as in ch. Ephesians 2:20 , the N. T. Prophets note there)  in (as the conditional element; in and by)  the Spirit (Chrys. remarks, ἑννόησον γάρ · ὁ Πέτρος , εἰ μὴ παρὰ τοῦ πνεύματος ἤκουσεν , οὐκ ἂν ἐπορεύθη εἰς τὰ ἔθνη .  ἐν πν  . must not be joined with  προφ  . as Koppe, al. (not Chrys., as the above citation shews); for, as De W. remarks, the words would thus either be superfluous, or make an unnatural distinction between the Apostles and Prophets)  that (‘namely, that’ giving the purport of the mystery)  the Gentiles are (not, ‘  should be :’  a mystery is not a secret design, but a secret fact)  fellow-heirs (with the Jews)  and fellow-members (of the same body)  and fellow-partakers of the promise (in the widest sense; the  promise of salvation : the complex, including all other promises, even that chief promise of the Father, the promise of the Spirit itself)  in (not to be referred to  τῆς ἐπαγγ  . , which would be more naturally, though not necessarily,  τῆς ἐν , but to the three foregoing adjectives,  in Christ Jesus , as the conditional element in which their participation consisted)  Christ Jesus (see above on ch. Eph 2:13 )  through the Gospel (He Himself was the  objective ground of their incorporation; the  εὐαγγέλιον , the joyful tidings of Him, the  subjective medium by which they apprehended it):  of which (Gospel)  I became (a reference to the event by which. “The passive form, however, implies no corresponding difference of meaning (Rück., Eadie): γίγνομαι in the Doric dialect was a deponent passive: ἐγενήθην was thus used for ἐγενόμην , and from thence occasionally crept into the language of later writers. See Buttm., Irregular Verbs, s.v.  ΓΕΝ , Lobeck, Phryn. pp. 108 9.” Ellic.)  a minister (see the parallel, Colossians 1:23 : and the remarks in Mey., and Ellic. on  διάκονος and  ὑπηρέτης )  according to (in consequence of and in analogy with)  the gift of the grace (genitive of apposition, as clearly appears from the definition of the grace given in the next verse: the grace  was the gift)  of God which was given to me (  δοθ  . , not tautological, or merely pleonastic after  δωρεάν , but to be joined with what follows)  according to the working in me of his power (because, and in so far as, His Almighty power wrought in me, was this gift of the χάρις , the ἀποστολή , the office of preaching among the Gentiles, &c., bestowed upon me).