 14 .]  On this account (resumes the τούτου χάριν of Ephesians 3:1 (see note there): viz. ‘because ye are so built in, have such a standing in God’s Church’)  I bend my knees (scil. in prayer: see reff.; and cf. 3 Kings 19:18)  towards (directing my prayer to Him: see Winer, § 49, h)  the Father (on the words here interpolated, see var. readd.),  from whom (as the source of the name: so Hom. II. κ . 68, πατρόθεν ἐκ γενεῆς ὀνομάζων ἄνδρα ἕκαστον : Soph., Œd. Tyr. 1036, ὥστ ʼ ὠνομάσθης ἐκ τύχης ταύτης , ὃς εἶ : Xen. Mem. iv. 5. 8, ἔφη δὲ καὶ τὸ διαλέγεσθαι ὀνομασθῆναι ἐκ τοῦ συνιόντας κοινῇ βουλεύεσθαι διαλέγοντας : Cic. de Amicitia, 8, ‘amor, ex quo amicitia nominata’)  every family (not ‘  the whole family ’ ( πᾶσα ἡ πα . ἡ , or, less strictly, πᾶσα πατρ ἡ ), as E. V. The sense, see below)  in the heavens and on earth is named (it is difficult to convey in another language any trace of the deep connexion of  πατήρ and  πατριά here expressed. Had the sentence been ‘the  Creator , after whom every  creature in heaven and earth is named,’ all would be plain to the English reader. But we must not thus render; for it is not in virtue of God’s creative power that the Apostle here prays to Him, but in virtue of His adoptive love in Christ. It is best therefore to keep the simple sense of the words, and leave it to exegesis to convey the idea,  πατριά is the  family , or in a wider sense the  gens , named so from its all having one  πατήρ  . Some (Est., Grot., Wetst., al.) have supposed St. Paul to allude to the rabbinical expression, ‘the family of earth and the family of heaven:’ but as Harl. observes, in this case he would have said π . ἡ πατρ ., ἡ ἐν οὐρ . κ . ἡ ἐπὶ γ . Others (Vulg., Jer., Thdrt., ὂς ἀληθῶς ὑπάρχει πατήρ , ὃς οὐ παρ ʼ ἄλλου τοῦτο λαβὼν ἔχει , ἀλλ ʼ αὐτὸς τοῖς ἄλλοις μεταδέδωκε τοῦτο , Corn.-a-lap.) have attempted to give  πατριά the sense of  paternitas , which it can certainly never have. But it is not so easy to say, to what the reference is, or why the idea is here introduced. The former of these will be found very fully discussed in Stier, pp. 487 99: and the latter more shortly treated. The Apostle seems, regarding God as the Father of us His adopted children in Christ, to go forth into the fact, that He, in this His relation to us, is in reality the great original and prototype of the paternal relation, wherever found. And this he does, by observing that every  πατριά ,  compaternity , body of persons, having a common father, is thus named (in Greek),  from that father , and so every earthly (and heavenly) family reflects in its name (and constitution) the being and sourceship of the great Father Himself. But then, what are  πατριαί  in heaven? Some have treated the idea of paternity  there as absurd: but is it not necessarily involved in  any explanation of this passage? He Himself is the Father of spirits, Hebrews 12:9 , the Father of lights, James 1:17 : may there not be fathers in the heavenly Israel, as in the earthly? May not the holy Angels be bound up in spiritual πατριαί , though they marry not nor are given in marriage? Observe, we must not miss the sense of  ὀνομάζεται , nor render, nor understand it, as meaning ‘  is constituted .’ This is the fact, but not brought out here),