 7, 8.   τοῖς μὲν καθ  ʼ   ὑπ  .…   ὀργὴ κ  .   θυμός ]  To those  who by endurance in good works seek for glory and honour and immortality (will He render)  eternal life: but to those who are (men)  of self-seeking, and disobey the truth, but obey iniquity (shall accrue)  anger and wrath , &c. The verb ἀποδώσει , Romans 2:6 , should have two accusatives, representing the two sides of the final retribution, ζωὴν αἰών . and ὀργήν , &c. But the second of these is changed to a nominative and connected with ἔσται understood, and made the first member of the following sentence, δόξα δὲ κ . τ . λ . being opposed to it. Thus also two datives belong to ἀποδώσει , viz. τοῖς .… ζητοῦσιν , and τοῖς … ἀδικίᾳ . To ζητοῦσιν belong δόξ . κ . τιμ . κ . ἀφθ . as its accusatives, and καθ ʼ ὑπομ . ἔργ . ἀγ . as its adverb. This, as De Wette remarks, is the only admissible construction: in opposition to ( α ) Œcum. and Beza, who divide ἔργ . ἀγ . from καθ ʼ ὑπομ . (  iis quidem qui secundum patientem expectationem quœrunt boni operis gloriam ), ( β ) Bengel, Knapp, Fritzsche, Olsh., and Krehl, who take τοῖς .… ἀγαθοῦ as meaning ‘  those who endure in good works ’ (as Œc [8] does τοῖς καθ ʼ ὑπομ .  those who endure , absol.), and δόξαν .… ζητοῦσιν , as in apposition with it, ( γ ) Photius (in Œcum.), Luther, and Estius, who take it, τοῖς .… ζητοῦσιν ζωὴν αἰών ., δόξαν κ . τ . λ ., ( δ ) Reiche, who takes τοῖς μέν , ‘  to the one ,’ alone, and makes καθ ʼ ὑπομ . parallel to κατὰ τὰ ἔργα , representing the  rule of judgment , taking the rest as ( γ ).
	 [8] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 ἔργου , sing. of  moral habitude in the whole, the  general course of life and action (see reff.).
	 δόξαν ,  absolute imparted  glory like His own, see Matthew 13:43 ; John 17:22 : τιμήν ,  recognition, relative precedence , see Matthew 10:32 ; Matthew 25:34 :  ἀφθαρσίαν ,  incorruptibility : so the aim of the Christian athlete is described, 1 Corinthians 9:25 , as being to obtain στέφανον ἄφθαρτον .