 8.   τοῖς δὲ ἐξ ἐριθείας ] as in reff., to be supplied by οὖσιν , those who live in, act from, are situated in and do their deeds from ἐριθεία as a status, as οἱ ἐξ spoken of  place .
	 ἐριθεία , not from ἔρις , from which it is distinguished 2 Corinthians 12:20 ; Galatians 5:20 , but from ἔρῑθος , a hired workman, whence ἐριθεύω or - ομαι , properly ‘to work for hire,’ but met. and generally, ‘  ambitum exercere ,’ used principally of official persons, who seek their own purposes in the exercise of their office, and (according to the analogy of παιδεία from παιδεύω , δουλεία from δουλεύω , ἀλαζονεία from ἀλαζονεύομαι ) ἐριθεία , ‘  ambitus,’ ‘self-seeking,’ ‘greed .’ It stands opposed to ὑπομονὴ ἔργου ἀγαθοῦ , which requires self-denial and forbearance. There seems to be no reason why this, the proper meaning, should not here apply, without seeking for a more far-fetched one, as ‘  the party spirit of the Jews .’ Rückert.
	The mistake of rendering it ‘  contentiousness ,’ and imagining a derivation from ἔρις prevailed universally (Orig [9] , Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Œcum., Hesych [10] ( ἠριθεύετο , ἐφιλονείκει ), Vulg., Erasm., Grot., &c., and even the more recent English Commentators, Bloomf., Slade, and Peile, τοῖς ἐξ ἐριθείας , i.e. τοῖς ἐρίζουσι ) according to De Wette,  down to Rückert , who first suggested the true derivation. It appears to have arisen from ἐρεθίζω being somewhat similar in sound. Aristotle uses it in the sense of ‘ambitus,’ canvassing for office, in Polit. Romans 2:3 , μεταβάλλουσι δὲ αἱ πολιτεῖαι καὶ ἄνευ στάσεως διά τε τὰς ἐριθείας , ὥσπερ ἐν Ἡραίᾳ · ἐξ αἱρετῶν γὰρ διὰ τοῦτο ἐποίησαν κληρωτάς , ὅτι ᾑροῦντο τοὺς ἐριθευομένους . Fritzsche, who has an excursus on the word, renders οἱ ἐξ ἐριθ ., ‘  malitiosi fraudum machinatores .’ Ignatius, ad Philad. § 8, p.704, opposes ἐριθ . to χριστομαθία . On the whole,  self-seeking seems best to lay hold of the idea of the word: see note on Philippians 1:16-17 .
	 [9] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [10] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	 ἀπειθ  .   μ  .   τῇ ἀλ  . ] Hindering (see ch. Rom 1:18 ) the truth which they possess from working, by self-abandonment to iniquity.
	 ὀργὴ κ  .   θυμός ] According to this arrangement (see var. readd.) the former word denotes the  abiding, settled mind of God towards them ( ἡ ὀργὴ τ . θεοῦ μένει ἐπ ʼ αὐτόν , Joh 3:36 ), and the latter, the  outbreak of that anger at the great day of retribution. So the grammarians: θυμὸς μέν ἐστι πρόσκαιρος (  excandescentia , as Cicero)· ὀργὴ δὲ πολυχρόνιος μνησικακία , Ammon. See the same further brought out by Tittmann, Syn. i. p. 131.