 27. ] I prefer with De Wette (and Erasm.), Luth., Bengel, Wetst., Knapp, and Meyer, to regard this verse not as a continuation of the question, but as a separate emphatic assertion, and as leading the way to the next verse.
	 κρινεῖ , ‘shall rise up in judgment against,’  judge indirectly by his example. See Matthew 12:41-42 , where κατακρίνω is used in a sense precisely similar.
	 ἡ ἐκ φύσεως ἀκροβ  . ] ‘he, who remains in his natural state of uncircumcision.’ ἐκ φύς . is contrasted with διὰ γράμ . κ . περιτ . below. The position of ἐκ φύσεως decides for this rendering and against joining it with τελοῦσα , which would require ἡ ἀκροβυστία , ἐκ φύσεως τὸν νόμον τελοῦσα .
	 τὸν νόμ  .   τελ  . ] such is the supposition that an uncircumcised man could fully act up to the (moral) requirements of the law. It is not ἡ τὸν νόμ . τελ .; because ἀκροβ . is used in the widest abstract sense: no distinction is made between one and another uncircumcised person, but some one man is taken as an example of ἀκροβυστία . So that the omission of the art. does not give a new hypothetic sense, ‘  if it fulfil the law ,’ but merely restates the hypothesis:  fulfilling (as it does, as we have supposed)  the law .
	 σὲ τὸν  .…   παραβάτην νόμου ] Here again the position of διὰ γράμματος κ . περιτομῆς , between τὸν and παραβάτην , sufficiently shews that, as ἐκ φύσεως above, it is a qualification of σὲ τὸν παραβάτην νόμου . Bp. Middleton (it appears, Gr. Art. in loc. and compare his ref.) would take σὲ τὸν διὰ γράμματος κ . περιτομῆς ( ὄντα ), ‘  thee who art a professor of the law and a circumcised person ,’ and understand εἶναι after παραβάτην ,  shall adjudge thee to be a transgressor of the law . But this appears exceedingly forced, and inconsistent with the position of παραβ . νόμου , which if it had been thus emphatic, would certainly have been placed either before, or immediately after κρινεῖ . We may well imagine that such an interpretation would not have been thought of, except to serve the supposed canon, that, ‘if τόν were immediately the article of παραβάτην , νόμου depending on it could not be anarthrous.’ See above on παραβ . νόμ . Romans 2:25 , and on Romans 2:13 .
	 διὰ γρ  .   κ  .   περ  . ] διὰ (see reff.) is here used of the  state in which the man is when he does the act,  regarded at the medium through which the act is done. It is rightly rendered  by in E. V. [though this gives too much the idea of the state being the instrument by means of which] (not, ‘  in spite of ,’ as Köllner and al.).
	 γράμματος ] ‘litera scripta,’ the  written word : here in a more general sense than in Romans 2:29 , where it is pressed to a contrast with πνεῦμα :  thee, who in a state of external conformity with the written law and of circumcision, art yet a transgressor of the law.
	In Romans 2:28-29  , supply the ellipses thus: in Romans 2:28 , fill up the subjects from the predicates, οὐ γὰρ ὁ ἐν τῷ φανερῷ ( Ἰουδαῖος ) Ἰουδαῖός ἐστιν , οὐδὲ ἡ ἐν τῷ φανερῷ ἐν σαρκὶ ( περιτομὴ ) περιτομή ( ἐστιν ); in Romans 2:29 , fill up the predicates from the subjects, ἀλλ ʼ ὁ ἐν τῷ κρυπτῷ Ἰουδαῖος ( Ἰουδαῖός ἐστιν ), καὶ περιτομὴ καρδίας ἐν πνεύματι οὐ γράμματι ( περιτομή ἐστιν ). Thus the  real Jew only , and the  real circumcision only , are  expressed in both verses. This is the arrangement of Beza, Estius, Rückert, De Wette: Erasm., Luther, Meyer, Fritzsche, take Ἰουδαῖος , and ἐν πν . οὐ γράμ ., as the predicates in Romans 2:29 ; but the latter gives a very vapid sense, besides that the opposition of ὁ ἐν τῷ φανερῷ , and ὁ ἐν τῷ κρυπτῷ is, as De W. observes, also vapid.