 12.   ὅσοι γ  .   ἀνόμως  .… ]  For as many as have sinned  without (the)  law (of Moses):  shall also perish without (the)  law (of Moses): i.e.  it shall not appear against them in judgment . Whether that will  ameliorate their case, is not even hinted, but only the  fact , as consonant with God’s justice, stated. That this is the meaning of ἀνόμως is clear from 1 Corinthians 9:21 . That even these have sinned against  a νόμος , is presently ( Rom 2:14 ) shewn. Chrys. says (Hom. vi. p. 466),.… ὁ μὲν γὰρ Ἕλλην ἀνόμως κρίνεται · τὸ δὲ  ἀνόμως ἐνταῦθα οὐ τὸ χαλεπώτερον , ἀλλὰ τὸ ἡμερώτερον λέγει · (this is perhaps saying too much, see above) τουτέστιν , οὐκ ἔχει κατηγοροῦντα τὸν νόμον . τὸ γὰρ ἀνόμως τοῦτ ʼ ἐστι , χωρὶς τῆς ἐξ ἐκείνου κατακρίσεως , φησίν , ἀπὸ τῶν τῆς φύσεως λογισμῶν καταδικάζεται μόνων . ὁ δὲ Ἰουδαῖος , ἐννόμως , τουτέστι , μετὰ τῆς φύσεως καὶ τοῦ νόμου κατηγοροῦντος · ὅσῳ γάρ πλείονος ἀπήλαυσεν ἐπιμελείας , τοσούτῳ μείζονα δώσει δίκην .
	 καί (De W.) serves to range ἀπολ ., as well as ἥμαρτ . under the common condition ἀνόμως :  As many as without the law have sinned, without the law shall also perish.
	 ἀπολοῦνται , the  result of the judgment on them, rather than κριθήσονται , its  process , because the absence of the law would thus seem as if it were the  rule by which they are to be judged , whereas it is only an  accident of that judgment, which  depends on other considerations .
	 ἐν νόμῳ  , under (  in , as a status)  the (Mosaic)  law; not ‘  a law,’ which would make the sentence a truism: it is on  that very undeniable assumption, ‘  that all who have had a law given shall be judged by that law ,’ that the Apostle constructs his argument, asserting it with regard to the Mosaic law in the case of the Jews, and proving that the Gentiles have had a law given to them in the testimony of their consciences. As to the omission of the article, no inference can be drawn, as the word follows a preposition: see Romans 2:23 , where ἐν νόμῳ unquestionably means ‘  in the law of Moses .’ Besides, these verses are no general assertions concerning men who have, and men who have not, a law revealed (for  all have one ), but a  statement of the case as concerning Jews and Gentiles .
	 νόμος ,  throughout , signifies  the law of Moses , even though anarthrous, in every place, except where the absence of the article corresponds to a  logical indefiniteness, as e.g. ἑαυτοῖς εἰσιν νόμος , Romans 2:14 ; and even there not ‘  a law:’ see note. And I hope to shew that it is never thus anarthrously used as = ὁ νόμος , except where usage will account for such omission of the article.
	 διὰ νόμ  .   κριθ  . ]  Now, shall be judged by the law: for that will furnish the  measure and  rule by which judgment will proceed.