CHAPTER II.The apostle mentions his journey to Jerusalem with Barnabas andTitus, 1.Shows that he went thither by revelation; and what he did whilethere, and the persons with whom he had intercourse, 2-8.How the apostles gave him the right hand of fellowship, 9, 10.Here he opposes Peter at Antioch, and the reason why, 11-14.Shows that the Jews as well as the Gentiles must be justified byfaith, 15, 16.They who seek this justification should act with consistency,17, 18.Gives his own religious experience, and shows, that through thelaw he was dead to the law, and crucified with Christ, 19, 20.Justification is not of the law, but by the faith of Christ, 21.NOTES ON CHAP. II.Verse Galatians 2:1. Then fourteen years after — There is a considerable difference among critics concerning the time specified in this verse; the apostle is however generally supposed to refer to the journey he took to Jerusalem, about the question of circumcision, mentioned in Acts 15:4-5, c. These years, says Dr. Whitby, must be reckoned from the time of his conversion, mentioned here Galatians 1:18, which took place A.D. 35 (33) his journey to Peter was A.D. 38 (36,) and then between that and the council of Jerusalem, assembled A.D. 49 (52,) will be fourteen intervening years. The dates in brackets are according to the chronology which I follow in the Acts of the Apostles. Dr. Whitby has some objections against this chronology, which may be seen in his notes.Others contend that the journey of which the apostle speaks is that mentioned Acts 11:27, c., when Barnabas and Saul were sent by the Church of Antioch with relief to the poor Christians in Judea there being at that time a great dearth in that land. St. Luke's not mentioning Titus in that journey is no valid objection against it: for he does not mention him in any part of his history, this being the first place in which his name occurs. And it does seem as if St. Paul did intend purposely to supply that defect, by his saying, I went up with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also. The former St. Luke relates, Acts 11:30; the latter St. Paul supplies.