Colossians 1:23.  If indeed; the same particle as in Ephesians 3:2; Ephesians 4:21; it does not express doubt, but calls attention to the necessity of faith, in order to be presented thus before God (Colossians 1:22).
	 Ye continue in the faith. ‘ The faith’ does not mean Christian doctrine, but Christian believing. What they believed is indicated below. This verse, which is virtually an exhortation, indicates that God’s act for and upon them (Colossians 1:21-22) is not carried out to a blessed consummation without subjective advance and personal activity’ (Braune).
	 Grounded and steadfast  (so 1 Corinthians 7:37; 1 Corinthians 15:58). These two terms describe their remaining in the faith on its positive side: ‘grounded’ suggests having a foundation on which they still stand (comp. Ephesians 3:18); ‘steadfast’ points to internal stability, as of a building firmly united,
	 without being moved away,  etc. The E. V., by inserting ‘be,’ suggests that this clause is parallel with ‘continue;’   it is parallel to the words immediately preceding, describing the negative side. The form used points to a possible danger threatening them, thus preparing for the warning of the second chapter.
	 From the hope  (the subjective hope, not the thing hoped for)  of the gospel  (called forth by the gospel). Others explain: ‘the hope belonging to the gospel,’ but the other seems more appropriate; comp. Ephesians 1:18. ‘From’ indicates that this hope is the foundation of the continuance in the faith. Others regard it as the aim held up before them; but this confuses the hope with the thing hoped for.
	 Which ye heard,  etc. The remainder of the verse in effect enforces the implied exhortation that precedes: (1.) The Colossians had heard the gospel, hence had no excuse for being moved away from the hope it presented; (2.) the gospel had been universally proclaimed and hence had universal validity; (3.) the writer, who was closely related to Epaphras (Colossians 1:7), was a preacher of this gospel (so Meyer, followed by Ellicott and Alford). ‘Heard’ points to the time when it was first preached (Colossians 1:7).
	 And which was preached to  (lit,   ‘in’)  every creature,  ‘In the whole creation’ seems an ungrammatical rendering, since the article is wanting in the Greek. ‘In’ is here equivalent to ‘with,’ ‘in the presence of.’
	 Which is under heaven  limits the previous phrase to earthly creatures. The wide extension of the gospel made this a natural hyperbole; comp. Colossians 1:6; Romans 1:8. ‘The Apostle prophetically sees as accomplished what has as yet only begun, and thus marks the universality of Christianity’ (Braune).
	 Whereof  I  Paul became a minister.  Comp. Ephesians 3:7, where similar language is used. The tense points to the historical fact of his call to the Apostleship. Notice here, as in Ephesians, the humility with which he speaks. Even he, the inspired Apostle  ,  is a minister (servant) of the gospel. The section means nothing, if it does not mean that to cease believing in the gospel Paul preached is to let go of Christ, the Head, and to lose a share in all that is glorious in His Person and blessed in His work. (A period should be placed at the close of this section; since the correct reading in Colossians 1:24 disconnects it grammatically from this verse.) 