Colossians 1:18.  And he (emphatic, as before) is the head of the body, the church. The emphasis resting on ‘He’ suggests a reference to the errors prevalent in the Colossian Church (see above). Here the subject is the now glorified Christ; comp. Ephesians 1:22-23, where the same idea is expressed, also Ephesians 4:12; Ephesians 4:15-16, and similar passages, which leave no doubt that the rendering given above is correct. The emphasis rests on the word ‘Head;’ their mistake was not respecting the Church, but respecting its Head; comp. chap. Colossians 2:19.
	 Who is the beginning. Since Christ’s relations to the Church are here set forth, it is true that ‘He is the “beginning,” in that in Him is begun and conditioned the Church’ (Alford). Meyer, however, joins ‘from the dead’ with this term. In any case priority in time, not in rank, is indicated, and the reference to the Church seems a natural one, though perhaps not the primary or exclusive one.
	 The firstborn from the dead. ‘First born’ here also indicates priority in time, but the connection suggests a series of which He is first. Moreover He is first born ‘from the dead,’ not simply ‘of’ them. ‘He left their realm and came again as with a new be-getting and new birth into life’ (Ellicott). Here too there is a reference to the Church, since this victory over death, as Paul everywhere indicates, is the fundamental fact in His giving life to His Church.
	 That (in order that)  in all things; ‘on all sides, in wisdom, holiness, might, death-over-coming power, dominion and glory, as respects the world as well as the Church’ (Braune). To render ‘among all’ sadly mars the passage.
	He, emphatic again. He and none other, the very one who rose,  might have the preeminence, become the first in rank; the word occurring only here in the New Testament. This is God’s purpose, partially fulfilled already, to be entirely fulfilled at His coming. The central place Paul assigns to the Person of Christ is the proper place in all Christian thought.
	