Colossians 1:16.  Because  (more exact than ‘for’, giving a reason for Colossians 1:15, in   him (the emphatic phrase), as the conditional element of the creation, preexistent and all-including,  were all things  (taken collectively as a whole = the created universe)  created.  The reference here is to the past fact, in the last clause of the verse the present is emphasized. Since ‘all things’ is expanded in what follows, the verse abundantly sustains the view taken of Colossians 1:15. The Person there referred to cannot be a part of the creation.
	 That are in the heavens,  etc. (The article is omitted in this pair, according to the best authorities.) On the terms themselves, comp. Ephesians 1:10. Obviously, the heavens and the earth are themselves included, as part of the creation.
	 Things visible and things invisible.  To the distinction of place, that of nature is added. There is no necessity for making this pair correspond exactly with the last, although ‘things invisible’ refers mainly to the heavenly world of spirits, which are classified in what follows:  whether thrones,  etc.
	In Ephesians 1:21, where, however, different terms are used, the order seems to be from the higher to the lower rank of angels. Hence it has been inferred that ‘thrones’ here points to the highest grade of created spirits, a view confirmed by Rabbinical usage.
	 Dominions.  According to Meyer, these form the lowest class,  principalities  and  powers,  the intermediate classes (comp. Ephesians 1:21, where ‘dominion’ comes last); if indeed ‘all such distinctions are not to be deemed precarious and presumptuous’ (Ellicott). ‘Whether’ suggests that there may be other classes, but that all are meant, whether named here are not. There is no reference to bad angels, who were not created as such. Earthly empires, civil orders, etc., cannot be meant. Many other fanciful interpretations have been suggested.
	 All things have been created through him and unto him.  ‘All things’ is solemnly repeated, but besides the fact of creation we have here the permanent result (‘have been created’ and continue to be). This result has Him as its end; hence ‘unto Him’ is added. All three phrases are needed to indicate the relation of the Son to creation. Comp. Romans 11:36, where the same terms (‘through’ and ‘unto’) are applied to the Father; ‘but of Him’ is never applied to the Son. To interpret the passage of a new moral creation is forbidden by the single statements as well as by the connection of thought Colossians 1:17-20 set forth more fully that all things have been created unto Him, and the new moral creation is part of the fulfilment of this design. Comp. Romans 8:19-23.
	