10.With brotherly love, etc. By no words could he satisfy himself in setting forth the ardor of that love, with which we ought to embrace one another: for he calls it brotherly, and its emotion στοργὴν , affection, which, among the Latins, is the mutual affection which exists between relatives; and truly such ought to be that which we should have towards the children of God. (391) That this may be the case, he subjoins a precept very necessary for the preservation of benevolence, — that every one is to give honor to his brethren and not to himself; for there is no poison more effectual in alienating the minds of men than the thought, that one is despised. But if by honor you are disposed to understand every act of friendly kindness, I do not much object: I however approve more of the former interpretation. For as there is nothing more opposed to brotherly concord than contempt, arising from haughtiness, when each one, neglecting others, advances himself; so the best fomenter of love is humility, when every one honors others. (391) It is difficult to render this clause: [Calvin ] ’s words are, “Fraterna charitate ad vos mutuo amandos propensi;” so [Beza ]. The Apostle joins two things — mutual love of brethren, with the natural love of parents and children, as though he said, “Let your brotherly love have in it the affectionate feelings which exists between parents and children.” “In brotherly love, be mutually full of tender affection,” [Doddridge ]. “In brotherly love, be kindly disposed toward each other,” [Macknight ]. It may be thus rendered, “In brotherly love, be tenderly affectionate to one another.” [Calvin ] ’s version of the next clause is, “Alii alios honore praevenientes;” so [Erasmus ]; τὣ τιμὣ ἀλλήλους προηγούμενοι; “honore alii aliis praeuntes — in honor (that is, in conceding honor) going before one another,” [Beza ], [Piscator ], [Macknight ]. It is thus explained by [Mede ], “Wait not for honor from others, but be the first to concede it.” The participle means to take the lead of, or outrunning, one another.” See Philippians 2:3 — Ed. 