 4. ] On  ἅπαντες , Chrys. says, οὐκ ἂν εἶπε πάντες , καὶ ἀποστόλων ὄντων ἐκεῖ , εἰ μὴ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι μετέσχον .
	 ἤρξαντο λαλεῖν ἑτέραις γλώσσαις ] There can be no question in any unprejudiced mind, that the fact which this narrative sets before us is, that the disciples began to  speak in VARIOUS LANGUAGES, viz.  the languages of the nations below enumerated, and perhaps others . All attempts to evade this are connected with some forcing of the text, or some far-fetched and indefensible exegesis. This then being laid down, several important questions arise, and we are surrounded by various difficulties. (1) Was this speaking in various languages a  gift bestowed on the disciples  for their use afterwards , or was it a  mere sign , their utterance being only as they were mouth-pieces of the Holy Spirit?  The latter seems certainly to have been the case . It appears on our narrative, καθὼς τὸ πνεῦμα ἐδίδου ἀποφθέγγεσθαι αὐτοῖς ,  as the Spirit gave them utterance . But, it may be objected, in that case they would not themselves understand what they said. I answer, that we infer  this very fact from 1 Corinthians 14:0 ; that the speaking with tongues was often found,  where none could interpret what was said . And besides, it would appear from Peter’s speech, that such, or something approaching to it, was the case in this instance. He makes no allusion to the  things said by those who spoke with tongues; the  hearers alone speak of their declaring τὰ μεγαλεῖα τοῦ θεοῦ . So that it would seem that here, as on other occasions ( 1Co 14:22 ), tongues were for a sign, not to those that believe, but to those that believe not. If the first supposition be made, that the gift of speaking in various languages was bestowed on the disciples  for their after use in preaching the Gospel , we are, I think, running counter to the whole course of Scripture and early patristic evidence on the subject. There is  no trace whatever of such a power being possessed or exercised by the Apostles, or by those who followed them. (Compare ch. Acts 14:11 ; Acts 14:14 ; Euseb. iii. 39; Iren [13] iii. 1, p. 174.) The passage cited triumphantly by Wordsw. from Iren [14] iii. 17, p. 208, to shew that  Irenœus understood the gift to be that of permanent preaching in many languages, entirely fails of its point: “Quem et descendisse Lucas ait post ascensum Domini super discipulos in Pentecoste, habentem potestatem omnium gentium ad introitum vitæ (which Wordsw. renders “in order that all nations might be enabled to enter into life,” suitably to his purpose, but not to the original) et ad assertionem novi Testamenti: unde et omnibus linguis conspirantes hymnum dicebant Deo, Spiritu ad unitatem redigente distantes tribus, et primitias omnium gentium offerente Patri.” Here it will be observed is not a word about future preaching; but simply this event itself is treated of, as a symbolic one, a first fruit of the future Gentile harvest. The other passage, id. Acts 2:6 , p. 299, shews nothing but that the  gift of tongues was not extinct in Irenæus’s time: there is in it not a word of preaching in various languages. I believe, therefore, the event related in our text to have been a  sudden and powerful inspiration of the Holy Spirit, by which the disciples uttered, not of their own minds, but as mouth-pieces of the Spirit, the praises of God in various languages, hitherto, and possibly at the time itself, unknown to them . (2) How is this ἑτέραις γλώσσαις λαλεῖν related to the γλώσσῃ λαλεῖν afterwards spoken of by St. Paul? I answer, that they are  one and the same thing . γλώσσῃ λαλ . is to speak in  a language, as above explained; γλώσσαις ( ἑτέραις , or καιναῖς , Mar 16:17 ) λαλ ., to speak in  languages , under the same circumstances. See this further proved in notes on 1 Corinthians 14:0 . Meantime I may remark, that the two are inseparably connected by the following links, ch. Acts 10:46 , Act 11:15 to Acts 19:6 , in which last we have the same juxtaposition of γλώσσαις λαλεῖν and προφητεύειν , as afterwards in 1 Corinthians 14:1-5 ff. (3)  Who were those that partook of this gift ? I answer, the  whole assembly of believers, from Peter’s application of the prophecy, Acts 2:16 ff. It was precisely the case supposed in 1 Corinthians 14:23 , ἐὰν οὖν συνέλθῃ ἡ ἐκκλησία ὅλη ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτὸ καὶ πάντες λαλῶσιν γλώσσαις , εἰσέλθωσιν δὲ ἰδιῶται ἢ ἄπιστοι , οὐκ ἐροῦσιν ὅτι μαίνεσθε ; These ἰδιῶται and ἄπιστοι were represented by the ἕτεροι of our Acts 2:13 , who pronounced them to be drunken. (4) I would not conceal the difficulty which our minds find in conceiving a person supernaturally endowed with the power of speaking,  ordinarily and consciously , a language which he has never learned. I believe that difficulty to be insuperable. Such an endowment would not only be contrary to the analogy of God’s dealings, but, as far as I can see into the matter, self-contradictory, and therefore impossible. But there is  no such contradiction , and to my mind  no such difficulty , in conceiving a man to be moved to utterance of sounds  dictated by the Holy Spirit . And the fact is clearly laid down by Paul, that the gift of  speaking in tongues, and that of  interpreting , were  wholly distinct . So that the above difficulty finds no place here, nor even in the case of a person  both speaking and interpreting : see 1 Corinthians 14:13 .
	 [13] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	 [14] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	On the question whether the speaking was necessarily  always in a foreign tongue, we have no data to guide us: it would seem that it  was ; but the conditions would not  absolutely exclude rhapsodical and unintelligible utterance. Only there is this objection to it: clearly, languages  were spoken on  this occasion, and we have no reason to believe that there were two distinct kinds of the gift. (5) It would be quite beyond the limits of a note to give any adequate history of the exegesis of the passage. A very short summary must suffice. ( α ) The idea of a gift of  speaking in various languages having been conferred  for the dissemination of the Gospel , appears not to have originated until the  gift of tongues itself had some time disappeared from the Church. Chrysostom adopts it, and the great majority of the Fathers and expositors. ( β ) Gregory Nyss. (see Suicer. Thes., γλῶσσα ), Cyprian, and in modern times Erasmus and Schneckenburger, suppose that the miracle consisted in the multitude  hearing in various languages that which the believers spoke in their native tongue: μίαν μὲν ἐξηχεῖσθαι φωνήν , πολλὰς δὲ ἀκούεσθαι . This view Greg. Naz [15] mentions, but not as his own, and refutes it (Orat. xli. 15, p. 743), saying, ἐκείνως μὲν γὰρ τῶν ἀκουόντων ἂν εἴη μᾶλλον ἢ τῶν λεγόντων τὸ θαῦμα . This view, besides, would make a distinction between this instance of the gift and those subsequently related, which we have seen does not exist. ( γ ) The course of the  modern German expositors has been, (1) to  explain the facts related, by some assumption inconsistent with the text , as e.g. Olshausen, by a magnetic ‘rapport’ between the speakers and hearers, whereas the speaking took place  first , independently of the hearers; Eichhorn, Wieseler, and others, by supposing γλώσσῃ λαλεῖν to mean speaking  with the tongue only , i.e. inarticulately in ejaculations of praise, which will not suit γλώσσ  αις λαλ .; Bleek, by interpreting γλῶσσα = glossema, and supposing that they spoke in unusual, enthusiastic, or poetical phraseology, which will not suit γλώσσ  ῃ λαλ .; Meyer (and De Wette nearly the same), by supposing that they spoke in an entirely new spiritual language (of which the γλῶσσ  αι were merely the individual varieties), as was the case during the Irvingite delusion in this country,  contrary to the plain assertion of Acts 2:6-8 , that  they spoke , and the  hearers heard , in the  dialects or  tongues of the various peoples specified; Paulus, Schulthess, Kuinoel, &c. by supposing that the assembly of believers was composed of Jews of various nations, who spoke as moved by the Spirit, but  in their own mother tongues , which is clearly inconsistent with Act 2:4 and the other passages, ch. 10 and 19, and 1 Corinthians 14:0 , above cited: (2) to take the whole of this narrative in its literal sense, but  cast doubts on its historical accuracy , and on Luke’s proper understanding of what really did take place. This is more or less done by several of the above mentioned, as a means of escape from the inconsistency of their hypotheses with Luke’s narrative. But,  to set aside , argumenti gratiâ,  higher considerations , is it at all probable that Luke, who must have  conversed with many eye and ear-witnesses of this day’s events , would have been misinformed about them in so vital a point as the very nature of the gift by which the descent of the Spirit was accompanied? There is every mark, as I hope I have shewn abundantly in the prolegomena, of the Acts having been written in the company and with the co-operation of  St. Paul : can we suppose that he, who treats so largely of  this very gift elsewhere, would have allowed such an inaccuracy to remain uncorrected, if it had existed? On the contrary, I believe this narrative to furnish  the key to the right understanding of 1 Corinthians 14:0 and other such passages, as I there hope more fully to prove.
	 [15] Nazianzenus, Gregory, fl. 370 389
	 καθὼς κ . τ . λ .]  according as (i.e. ‘  in such measure and manner in each case as ’)  the Spirit granted to them to speak (bestowed on them utterance). There is no emphasis, as Wordsw., on αὐτοῖς , but rather the contrary: placed thus behind the verb, it becomes insignificant in comparison with the fact announced, and with the subject of the sentence.
	The word ἀποφθέγγεσθαι has been supposed here to imply that they uttered short ejaculatory sentences of praise: so Chrys., ἀποφθέγματα γὰρ ἦν τὰ παρ ʼ αὐτῶν λεγόμενα : Œc [16] , Bloomf., and Wordsw. But in neither of the two other places in St. Luke (see reff.) will it bear this meaning, nor in any of the six where it occurs in the LXX: though in two of those (Mic. and Zech.) it has the peculiar sense of speaking oracularly. and in Eze 13:19 it represents כָּזַב ,  mentior . Our word to  utter , to  speak out , seems exactly to render it. It is never desirable to press a specific sense, where the more general one seems to have become the accepted meaning of a word. And this is especially so here, where, had any peculiar sense been intended, the verb would surely have held a more prominent position. Their utterance was none of their own, but the simple gift and inspiration of the Holy Spirit: see above.
	 [16] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?