 9. ]  Πάρθοι ] The catalogue proceeds from the N.E. to the W. and S. See Mede, Book i. Disc. xx., who notices that it follows the order of the three great dispersions of the Jews, the Chaldean, Assyrian, and Egyptian. So also Wordsw. ‘Habet (Parthia) ab ortu Arios, a meridie Carmaniam et Arianos, ab occasu Protitas Medos, a septentrione Hyrcanos, undique desertis cincta,’ Plin. vi. 29. See also Strabo, xi. 9, and Winer, Realw.
	 Μῆδοι ] Media, W. of Parthia and Hyrcania, S. of the Caspian sea, E. of Armenia, N. of Persia.
	 Ἐλαμῖται ] in pure Greek Ἐλυμαῖοι , inhabitants of Elam or Elymais, a Semitic people ( Gen 10:22 ). Elam is mentioned in connexion with Babylon, Genesis 14:1 ; with Media, Isaiah 21:2 ; Jeremiah 25:0 :(32 in LXX) 25; with, or as part of, Assyria, Ezekiel 32:24 ; lsa. Acts 22:6 ; as a province of Persia, Ezra 4:9 ; as the province in which Susan was situated, Daniel 8:2 (but then Susiana must be taken in the wide sense, Ἐλυμαῖοι προσεχεῖς ἦσαν Σουσίοις , Strabo, xi. 13; xvi. 1). According toJosephus, Antt. i. 6. 4, the Elamæans were the progenitors of the Persians. We find scattered hordes under this name far to the north, and even on the Orontes near the Caspian (Strabo, xi. 13; xv. 3; xvi. 1). Pliny’s description, the most applicable to the times of our text, is, ‘Infra Eulæum (Susianen ab Elymaide disterminat amnis Eulæus,  paulo supra ) Elymais est, in ora juncta Persidi, a flumine Oronti ad Characem ccxl m. pass. Oppida ejus Seleucia et Sosirate, apposita monti Casyro,’ vi. 27.
	 Μεσοποταμίαν ] the well-known district between the Euphrates and Tigris, so called merely as distinguishing its geographical position (Strabo, xvi. 1): it never formed a state. The name does not appear to be older than the Macedonian conquests. The word is used by the LXX, Vulg., and E. V. in Gen 24:10 to express אֲרַם נַהֲרַיִם , Aram of the two rivers. Similarly the Peschito renders it here, and ch. Acts 7:2 . See Winer, Realw.
	 Ἰουδαίαν ] I can see no difficulty in Judæa being here mentioned. The catalogue does not proceed by  languages , but by territorial division; and Judæa lies immediately S. of its path from Mesopotamia to Cappadocia. It is not Ἰουδαῖοι by birth and domicile, but οἱ κατοικοῦντες τὴν Ἰουδαίαν who are spoken of: the ἄνδρες εὐλαβεῖς settled in Judæa. And even if born Jews were meant, doubtless they also would find a place among those who heard in their mother-tongue the wonderful works of God.
	 Καππαδοκίαν ] At this time (since U.C. 770) a Roman province (see Tacit. Ann. ii. 42), embracing Cappadocia proper and Armenia minor.
	 Πόντον ] The former kingdom of Mithridates, lying along the S. coast of the Euxine (whence its name) from the river Halys to Colchis and Armenia, and separated by mountains from Cappadocia on the S. It was at this time divided into petty principalities under Roman protection, but subsequently (Suet. Nero 18) became a province under Nero.
	 τὴν Ἀσίαν ] i.e. here  Asia propria , or rather the W. division of it, as described by Pliny, Acts 2:27 , as bounded on the E. by Phrygia and Lycaonia, on the W. by the Ægean, on the S. by the Egyptian sea, on the N. by Paphlagonia. Winer, Realw., cites from Solinus, 43: ‘Sequitur Asia, sed non eam Asiam loquor quæ in tertio orbis divortio terminos omnes habet, … verum eam quæ a Telmesso Lyciæ incipit. Eam igitur Asiam ab Oriente Lycia includit et Phrygia, ab occid. Ægæa littora, a meridie mare Ægyptium, Paphlagonia a septentrione. Ephesus in ea urbs clarissima est.’ See ch. Acts 16:6 , where the same appears to be intended.