 22. ]  ἄνδρ  .   Ἰσρ  . binds all the hearers in  one term , and that one reminds them of their covenant relation with God: compare πᾶς οἶκος Ἰσραήλ , Acts 2:36 .
	 τὸν Ναζωραῖον ] Not emphatically used by way of contrast to what follows, as Beza, Wetst., &c. but only as the ordinary appellation of Jesus by the Jews, see John 18:5 ; John 18:7 ; ch. Acts 22:8 ; Acts 26:9 .
	 ἀπό , not  for ὑπό , here or any where else (see Winer, edn. 6, § 47, b): but signifying the  source whence , not merely the  agency by which , the deed has place. See reff., and especially James 1:13 .
	 ἀποδεδειγμένον ] ‘demonstratum,’ more than ‘  approved ’ (E. V.):  shewn to be that which He claimed to be. ἀποδεδ . must be taken with ἀπὸ τ . θεοῦ : not, as some have divided the words, ἄνδρ . ἀπὸ τ . θεοῦ , ἀποδ . κ . τ . λ .: Gal 1:1 is no justification of this, for there ἀπό refers to ἀπόστολος , and certainly Peter would never have barely thus named our Lord ‘a man from God.’ The whole connexion of the passage would besides be broken by this rendering: that connexion being, that the Man Jesus of Nazareth was  by God demonstrated,  by God wrought in among you,  by God’s counsel delivered to death,  by God raised up (which raising up is argued on till Acts 2:32 , then taken up again),  by God ( Act 2:36 ), finally, made Lord and Christ. This was the process of argument then with the Jews, proceeding on the identity of a man whom they had seen and known, and then mounting up from His works and His death and His resurrection, to  His glorification , all THE PURPOSE AND DOING OF GOD. But if His  divine origin , or even His divine  mission , be stated at the outset, we  break this climacterical sequence , and lose the power of the argument. The ἀποδεδειγμένον ( εἶναι ) ἀπὸ θεοῦ of Dr. Bloomfield is of course worse still.
	 οἷς  (  ἃ  )   ἐποίησεν δι  ʼ   αὐτ  .   ὁ θ  . ] not, as De Wette,  a low view of the miracles wrought by Jesus , nor inconsistent with John 2:11 ; but in strict accordance with the progress of our Lord through humiliation to glory, and with His own words in that very Gospel ( Joh 5:19 ), which is devoted to the great subject,  the manifestation, by the Father, of the glory of the Son . This side of the subject is here especially dwelt on in argument with these Jews, to exhibit (see above) the whole course of Jesus of Nazareth, as the  ordinance and doing of THE GOD OF ISRAEL.