 1.   ἐν τῷ συνπληροῦσθαι  … ]  While the day of P. was being fulfilled : ‘during the progress of that particular day:’ this is necessitated by the pres. tense. In  sense , it amounts to ‘  when the day of P. was fully come ,’ as E. V.:  but not in grammar. Professor Hitzig, in a letter to Ideler, “Ostern und Pflngsten, u.s.w.,” maintains that the meaning is, ‘  As the day of P .  drew on,’ ‘was approaching its fulfilment :’ but this view is refuted by Neander, “Pflanzung u. Leitung, u.s.w.,” p. 10, note. Hitzig supports his view by Acts 2:5 , taking κατοικοῦντες to imply  constant residence , not merely  sojourning on account of the feast , which latter he says would have been specified if it were so. Neander replies, 1. that ἐν τ . συνπλ . τ . ἡ . τ . π . must necessarily mean that the day itself  had arrived ; compare πλήρωμα τοῦ χρόνου or τῶν καιρῶν , Gal 4:4 and Ephesians 1:10 . In Luke 9:51 , it is not said of  the day , but of the  days of His being received up, including the whole period introductory to that event: and, by the very same interpretation,  the day of P. must in this case  have arrived , (and was  being accomplished , i.e. in process of passing.) And again, if only the  approach of that day were indicated, why should the  day itself have been mentioned, seeing that it would then be no way concerned in the narrative? On the propriety of the day itself as belonging to the narrative, see below. 2. It is true that in Acts 2:5 , if we had that verse only before us, we should interpret κατοικ . of  dwelling , permanently (no real difference being traceable between κατοικεῖν with an accus., and κατοικεῖν ἐν ); but if we compare it with Acts 2:9 , we shall see, that the  same persons would thus be κατοικοῦντες in Jerusalem and  several other localities , which necessarily restricts the meaning, in Acts 2:5 , to a  temporary sojourn . And, granting that there may have been some  residents in Jerusalem among these foreign Jews, the ἐπιδημοῦντες  Ῥωμαῖοι certainly point to persons who were for some especial reason at Jerusalem at the time, as also the  proselytes . And in Act 2:14 Peter distinguishes the ἄνδρες Ἰουδαῖοι , the residents, from οἱ κατοικοῦντες Ἱερους . ἅπαντες , the sojourners.
	 τ  .   ἡμ  .   τῆς π  . ] The  fiftieth day (inclusive) after the sixteenth of Nisan, the second day of the Passover ( Lev 23:16 ), called in Exodus 23:16 , ‘  the feast of harvest ,’ in Deuteronomy 16:10 , ‘  the feast of weeks ;’ one of the three great feasts, when all the males were required to appear at Jerusalem, Deuteronomy 16:16 . No supplying of ἡμέρας , or ἑορτῆς , is required after πεντηκοστῆς : the word had passed into a proper name, see ref. Tobit, where it is in appos. with ἑορτῇ , and ref. 2 Macc.
	At this time, it was simply regarded as the feast of harvest: among the later Jews, it was considered as the anniversary of the giving of the law from Sinai. This inference was apparently grounded on a comparison of Exodus 12:2 ; Exodus 19:1 . Josephus and Philo know nothing of it, and it is at the best very uncertain. Chrysostom’s reason for the event happening when it did is probably the true one: ἔδει γὰρ ἑορτῆς οὔσης πάλιν ταῦτα γενέσθαι · ἵνα οἱ παρόντες τῷ σταυρῷ τοῦ χριστοῦ , οὗτοι καὶ ταῦτα ἴδωσιν (in Catena). See a number of other reasons given by Wordsw., more suo. The question,  on what day of the week this day of Pentecost was, is beset with the difficulties attending the question of our Lord’s last passover; see notes on Matthew 26:17 , and John 18:28 . It appears probable however that it was on the Sabbath, i.e. if we reckon from  Saturday, the 16  th of Nisan . Wieseler (Chron. des Apostol. Zeitalters, p. 20) supposes that the Western Church altered the celebration of it to the first day of the week in conformity with her observance of Easter on that day. If we take the second day of the Passover as  Sunday, the 17  th of Nisan , which some have inferred from John 18:28 , the day of Pentecost will fall on the  first day of the week. The custom of the Karaites was, to keep Pentecost always  on the first day of the week, reckoning not from the day after the great Passover-Sabbath, but from that  following the Sabbath in Passover week understanding הַשַּׁבָּת in Lev 23:15 of the  ordinary Sabbath; but this cannot be brought to bear on our enquiry, as it probably arose later.
	 πάντες ] Not the Apostles only, nor the hundred and twenty mentioned ch. Acts 1:15 ; but  all the believers in Christ , then congregated at the time of the feast in Jerusalem. The former is manifest from Acts 2:14 , when Peter and the eleven stand forward and allude to the rest as οὗτοι : and the latter follows on the former being granted. Both are confirmed by the universality of the promise cited by Peter, Acts 2:17 ff. See Chrys. below, on Acts 2:4 .
	 ὁμοῦ ]  together : the rec. ὁμοθυμαδόν implies more, viz. that their  purpose , as well as their locality, was the same.
	 ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτό ]  Where ? evidently  not in the temple, or any part of it . The improbability of such an assemblage, separate and yet so great, in any of the rooms attached to the temple, the words ὅλον τὸν οἶκον in Acts 2:2 (where see note), the συνῆλθεν τὸ πλῆθος , Acts 2:6 , the absence of any mention of the temple, all these are against such a supposition. Obviously no  à priori consideration such as Olshausen alleges (in loc.), that “thus the solemn inauguration of the Church of Christ becomes more imposing by happening in the holy place of the Old Covenant,” can apply to the enquiry. Nor can the statement that they were διὰ παντὸς ἐν τῷ ἱερῷ , Luke 24:53 , apply here (see above on ch. Act 1:13 ); for even if it be assumed that the hour of prayer was come (which it hardly could have been, seeing that some time must have elapsed between the event and Peter’s speech), the disciples would not have been assembled separately, but would, as Peter and John, in ch. Acts 3:1 , have gone up, mingled with the people. See more below.