 42 .]  τῇ διδαχῇ τῶν ἀποστ  . , compare Matthew 28:20 .
	 τῇ κοινωνίᾳ ]  community: the living together as one family, and having things in common. It is no objection to this meaning, that the fact is  repeated below, in Acts 2:45 ; for so is the κλάσις τοῦ ἄρτου in Acts 2:46 , and the προσκ . ταῖς προσευχ .
	The Vulg. interpretation of τῇ κοινωνίᾳ ( καὶ ) τῇ κλάσει τ . ἄρτ . by ‘communicatione fractionis panis,’  per Hendiadyn , is curious enough. If suggested by 1 Corinthians 10:16 , it should have been ‘communicatione et fractione panis.’ The adoption of the right reading renders this interpretation untenable. The supplying τῶν ἀποστ . after κοινωνίᾳ , as in E. V., is better than the last, but still I conceive bears no meaning defensible in construction. Very different is the κοινωνία τ . ἁγ . πνεύματος of 2 Corinthians 13:13 , because there the Holy Ghost is  imparted , is that  of which all partake, are κοινωνοί : whereas the κοιν . τῶν ἀποστ . must signify fellowship  with the Apostles, or fellowship  with that Society of which the Apostles were the chief; neither of which meanings I conceive κοιν . will bear.
	The special sense in which κοινωνία occurs, Romans 15:26 , could not be here meant, or the word would have been qualified in some way, τῇ κοιν . ( τῇ ) εἰς τοὺς πτωχούς , or the like.
	 τῇ κλάσει τ  .   ἄρτου ] This has been very variously explained. Chrysostom (in Act. Homil. vii. p. 57) says, τὸν ἄρτον μοι δοκεῖ λέγων , καὶ τὴν νηστείαν ἐνταῦθα σημαίνειν , καὶ τὸν σκληρὸν βίον · τροφῆς γάρ , οὐ τρυφῆς μετελάμβανον . And similarly Œcumenius, and of the moderns Bengel: ‘fractione panis, id est, victu frugali, communi inter ipsos.’ But on Act 2:46 he recognizes a covert allusion to the Eucharist.
	The interpretation of ἡ κλ . τ . ἄρτ . [here] as  the celebration of the Lord’s Supper has been, both in ancient and modern times, the prevalent one. Chrysostom himself, in his 27th Hom. on 1 Cor., p. 422, interprets it, or at all events τῇ κοινωνίᾳ and it together, of the Holy Communion. And the Romanist interpreters have gone so far as to ground an argument on the passage for the administration  in one kind only . But, referring for a fuller discussion of the whole matter to the notes on 1 Corinthians 10:11 , barely to render ἡ κλάσις τοῦ ἄρτου the breaking of bread in the Eucharist,  as now understood , would be to violate historical truth. The Holy Communion was at first, and for some time, till abuses put an end to the practice,  inseparably connected with the ἀγάπαι , or  love-feasts , of the Christians, and  unknown as a separate ordinance . To these ἀγάπαι , accompanied as they were at this time by the celebration of the Lord’s Supper, the κλάσις τοῦ ἄρτου refers, from the custom of the master of the feast breaking bread in asking a blessing; see ch. Acts 27:35 , where the Eucharist is out of the question.
	No stress must be laid, for any doctrinal purpose, upon the article before ἄρτου : the construction here requires it, and below, Acts 2:46 , where not required by the construction, it is omitted.
	I need hardly add that the sense inferred by Kypke and Heinrichs from Isaiah 58:7 , διάθρυπτε πεινῶντι τὸν ἄρτον σου , that of giving bread to the poor, is in the highest degree improbable here, and inconsistent with the Christian use of ἡ κλάσις τοῦ ἄρτου elsewhere.
	 ταῖς προσευχ .]  The appointed times of prayer: see Acts 2:46 . But it need not altogether exclude  prayer among themselves as well, provided we do not assume any set times or forms of  Christian worship , which certainly did not exist as yet. See notes on Romans 14:5 ; Galatians 4:10 .