 33 .] Peter now comes to the  Ascension the exaltation of Jesus to be, in the fullest sense, Lord and Christ.
	 τῇ δεξιᾷ ]  by the right hand , not ‘  to the right hand.’ The great end of this speech is to shew forth (see above) the GOD OF ISRAEL as the  doer of all these things. However well the sense ‘  to ’ might seem to agree with the ἐκ δεξιῶν of Acts 2:34 , we must not set aside a very suitable sense, nor violate syntax (for the construction is entirely unexampled in Hellenistic as well as prose classical Greek) in order to suit an apparent adaptation. The reference is carried on by the word δεξιά , though it be not in exactly the same position in the two cases. And the ἀνέβη εἰς τοὺς οὐρ . of Act 2:34 prepares the way for the ἐκ δεξιῶν following without any harshness.
	On the  poetic dative after verbs of approach, see Musgr., Phœnissæ, 310 (303, Matth.), and Hermann, Antig. 234. See also ch. Acts 5:31 , and Winer (who defends the construction), edn. 6, § 31. 5. Wordsw. denies that the δεξιὰ θεοῦ is ever specified in the N. T. as the instrument by which He works. But he has omitted to state that this and the similarly ambiguous place, ch. Acts 5:31 , are  the only real instances of the expression being used , all the rest being local, ἐκ δεξιῶν or ἐν δεξιᾷ : so that his dictum goes for nothing. And in the LXX the use of God’s right hand as the instrument is very frequent: cf. Exodus 15:6 ; Exodus 15:12 ; Ps. 17:36; Psalms 59:5 (where the dat. is used as here), and about 20 other places; Isaiah 48:13 ; Isaiah 63:12 , &c. After this, the objection, when applied to a speech so full of O. T. spirit and diction as this, would, even if valid as regards the N. T., be irrelevant.
	 ἐπαγγελίαν ] Christ is said to have received from the Father the promise above cited from Joel, which is spoken of  His days . This, and not of course the declarations made by Himself to the same effect, is here  referred to , though doubtless those were in Peter’s mind. The very word, ἐξέχεεν , refers to ἐκχεῶ above, Acts 2:17 .
	 τοῦτο , ‘this influence,’  this merely; leaving to his hearers the inference, that  this , which they saw and heard, must be none other than the effusion of the Spirit.
	 βλέπετε need not imply, as Dr. Burton thinks, that “there was some visible appearance, which the people saw as well as the apostles:” very much of the  effect of the descent of the Spirit would be  visible , the enthusiasm and gestures of the speakers, for instance; not, however, the tongues of flame, for then none could have spoken as in Acts 2:13 .