This. Jesus. He that came [ο ελθων] . Referring to the historic fact. See Matthew 11:3; Luke 7:19; John 1:15, John 1:27. Compare, for the form of expression, John 1:33; John 3:13. By water and blood [δι υδατος και αιματος] . Dia by, must be taken with oJ ejlqwn He that came. It has not merey the sense of accompaniment, but also of instrumentality, i e., by, through, by means of. Water and blood are thus the media through which Jesus the Mediator wrought, and which especially characterized the coming. See especially Hebrews 9:12 : "Christ being come... neither by the blood [δι αιματος] of goats and calves, but by His own blood [δια δε του ιδιου αιματος " ] . Compare" we walk by faith not by sight (dia pistewv ouj dia eidouv, "2 Corinthians 5:7) : we wait with (lit., through) patience (dij uJpomonhv," Romans 8:25). Water refers to Christ 's baptism at the beginning of His Messianic work, through which He declared His purpose to fulfill all righteousness (Matthew 3:15). Blood refers to His bloody death upon the cross for the sin of the world. Other explanations are substituted for this or combined with it. Some refer the words water and blood to the incident in John 19:34. To this it is justly objected that these words are evidently chosen to describe something characteristic of Christ 's Messianic office, which could not be said of the incident in question. Nevertheless, as Alford justly remarks, "to deny all such allusion seems against probability. The apostle could hardly, both here and in that place, lay such evident stress on the water and the blood together, without having in his mind some link connecting this place and that." The readers of the Epistle must have been familiar with the incident, from oral or from written teaching. Others refer the words to the Christian sacraments. These, however, as Huther observes, are only the means for the appropriation of Christ 's atonement; whereas the subject here is the accomplishment of the atonement itself. Ai=ma blood, standing by itself, never signifies the Lord 's Supper in the New Testament. The true principle of interpretation appears to be laid down in the two canons of Dusterdieck. (1.) Water and blood must point both to some purely historical facts in the life of our Lord on earth, and to some still present witnesses for Christ. (2.) They must not be interpreted symbolically, but understood of something so real and powerful, as that by them God 's testimony is given to believers, and eternal life assured to them. Thus the sacramental reference, though secondary, need not be excluded. Canon Westcott finds "an extension of the meaning" of water and blood in the following words : "Not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood," followed by the reference to the present witness of the Spirit. He argues that the change of the prepositions (ejn in, for dia by), the use of the article [τω] , and the stress laid on actual experience (it is the Spirit that witnesseth), these, together with the fact that that which was spoken of in its unity (by water and blood) is now spoken of in its separate parts (in the water and in the blood) - "all show that St. John is speaking of a continuation of the first coming under some new but analogous form. The first proof of the Messiahship of Jesus lay in His complete historical fulfillment of Messiah 's work once for all, in bringing purification and salvation; that proof is continued in the experience of the Church in its two separate parts." Thus we are led to the ideas underlying the two sacraments. The subject opened by the word blood is too large for discussion within these limits. The student is referred to Dr. Patrick Fairbairn's "Typology of Scripture;" Andrew Jukes, "The Law of the Offerings;" Professor William Milligan, "The Resurrection of our Lord," note, p. 274 sqq.; Canon Westcott's "Additional Note" on 1 John 1:7, in his "Commentary on John's Epistles;" and Henry Clay Trumbull, "The Blood Covenant." Not by water only [ουκ εν τω υδατι μονον] . Lit., not in the water only Rev., with. The preposition ejn in, marks the sphere or element in which; dia by, the medium through which. For the interchange of ejn and dia see 2 Corinthians 6:7. The words are probably directed against the teaching of Cerinthus. See on 2 22. John asserts that Jesus is the Christ, and that He came by blood as well as by water. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness [και το πνευμα εστιν το μαρτυρουν] . Lit., and the Spirit is that which is bearing witness. Note the present tense, beareth witness, and compare ver. 9, hath born witness. The witness is present and continuous in the Church, in the sacraments for instance, in water and in blood. Witnessing is the peculiar office of the Spirit. See John 14:26; John 16:8 sqq. See on John 1:7. Because [οτι] . Some render that, as presenting the substance of the testimony, which is absurd : the Spirit witnesseth that the Spirit is the truth. The Spirit is the Holy Ghost, not the spiritual life in man. The truth [η αληθεια] . Just as Christ is the truth (John 14:6).