3. Without father, c.—explained
	by "without genealogy" (so the Greek is for "without
	descent) compare Hebrews 7:6, that
	is, his genealogy is not known, whereas a Levitical priest
	could not dispense with the proof of his descent. 
	having neither beginning of
	days nor end of life—namely, history not having recorded his
	beginning nor end, as it has the beginning and end of Aaron. The
	Greek idiom expressed by "without father," c., one
	whose parentage was humble or unknown. "Days" mean
	his time of discharging his function. So the eternity spoken
	of in Psalms 110:4 is that of the
	priestly office chiefly. 
	made like—It is not
	said that he was asbsolutely "like." Made like,
	namely, in the particulars here specified. Nothing is said in Genesis
	of the end of his priesthood, or of his having had in his priesthood
	either predecessor or successor, which, in a typical point of view,
	represents Christ's eternal priesthood, without beginning or end.
	Aaron's end is recorded Melchisedec's not: typically
	significant. "The Son of God" is not said to be made like
	unto Melchisedec, but Melchisedec to be "made like the Son of
	God." When ALFORD
	denies that Melchisedec was made like the Son of God in respect of
	his priesthood, on the ground that Melchisedec was prior in
	time to our Lord, he forgets that Christ's eternal priesthood was
	an archetypal reality in God's purpose from everlasting, to
	which Melchisedec's priesthood was "made like" in due time.
	The Son of God is the more ancient, and is the archetype: compare Psalms 110:4- :, where the heavenly things are represented as the primary
	archetype of the Levitical ordinances. The epithets, "without
	father," c. "beginning of days, "nor end,"
	"abideth continually," belong to Melchisedec only in
	respect to his priesthood, and in so far as he is the type of
	the Son of God, and are strictly true of Him alone. Melchisedec
	was, in his priesthood, "made like" Christ, as far as the
	imperfect type could represent the lineaments of the perfect
	archetype. "The portrait of a living man can be seen on the
	canvas, yet the man is very different from his picture." There
	is nothing in the account, Psalms 110:4- :, to mark Melchisedec as a superhuman being: he is
	classed with the other kings in the chapter as a living historic
	personage: not as ORIGEN
	thought, an angel nor as the Jews thought, Shem, son of Noah; nor as
	CALMET, Enoch; nor as the
	Melchisedekites, that he was the Holy Ghost; nor as others, the
	Divine Word. He was probably of Shemitic, not Canaanite origin: the
	last independent representative of the original Shemitic population,
	which had been vanquished by the Canaanites, Ham's descendants. The
	greatness of Abraham then lay in hopes; of Melchisedec, in present
	possession. Melchisedec was the highest and last representative of
	the Noahic covenant, as Christ was the highest and ever enduring
	representative of the Abrahamic. Melchisedec, like Christ, unites in
	himself the kingly and priestly offices, which Abraham does
	not. ALFORD thinks the
	epithets are, in some sense, strictly true of Melchisedec himself;
	not merely in the typical sense given above; but that he had not, as
	mortal men have, a beginning or end of life (?). A very improbable
	theory, and only to be resorted to in the last extremity, which has
	no place here. With Melchisedec, whose priesthood probably lasted a
	long period, the priesthood and worship of the true God in Canaan
	ceased. He was first and last king-priest there, till Christ,
	the antitype; and therefore his priesthood is said to last for ever,
	because it both lasts a long time, and lasts as long as the nature of
	the thing itself (namely, his life, and the continuance of God's
	worship in Canaan) admits. If Melchisedec were high priest for ever
	in a literal sense, then Christ and he would now still be high
	priests, and we should have two instead of one (!). THOLUCK
	remarks, "Melchisedec remains in so far as the type
	remains in the antitype, in so far as his priesthood remains in
	Christ." The father and mother of Melchisedec, as
	also his children, are not descended from Levi, as the Levitical
	priests (Hebrews 7:6) were required
	to be, and are not even mentioned by Moses. The wife of Aaron,
	Elisheba, the mother from whom the Levitical priests spring,
	is mentioned: as also Sarah, the original mother of the Jewish nation
	itself. As man, Christ had no father; as God, no mother.