2 Peter 3:1.  This is now, beloved, a second epistle that I write unto you.  The sentence might be rendered literally thus: ‘This already second epistle, beloved, I write unto you.’ The expression seems to imply that a   comparatively short time had elapsed since he wrote them before. This is referred to as an ‘evidence of his affectionate solicitude, as well as of the importance and urgency of the subject-matter’ (Lillie). The First Epistle is thus incidentally claimed to be by the same hand. The author prefaces what he has now to say about the scoffers of the last days by a personal statement, as was the case also with the solemn affirmation made in chap. 2 Peter 1:12-15. The Epistle also deepens notably in the loving urgency of its tone, as it now approaches its conclusion. Hence the repeated appeals to the readers as ‘beloved’ which distinguish this chapter ( 2Pe 3:1 ; 2 Peter 3:8; 2 Peter 3:14; 2 Peter 3:17).
	 in which; that is to say, ‘in which Epistles,’ or ‘in both which.’ The plural relative is used, as if the First Epistle as well as the Second had been specified.
	 I stir up your sincere mind in reminding (or,  in the way of) reminder).  On the formula see Note on chap. 2 Peter 1:13. The adjective rendered ‘pure’ by the A. V. occurs only once again in the N. T., viz. in Philippians 1:10, where the A. V. translates it ‘sincere,’ as the R. V. does here. It is derived by some from a root expressive of the  clear splendour  of sunlight; by others from a root denoting that which is  parcelled off  by itself; by others still from one signifying that which is purified by  rolling  or  shaking.  It seems to mean primarily  unmixed, distinct.  The cognate noun is found three times in the N. T. ( 1Co 5:8 ; 2 Corinthians 1:12; 2 Corinthians 2:17). The term has a definite ethical sense in the N. T., which goes beyond anything it has in Classical Greek. With a near approach to a complete account Archbishop Trench defines it as a grace which ‘will exclude all double-mindedness, the divided heart (James 1:8; James 4:8), the eye not single (Matthew 6:22), all hypocrisies (1 Peter 2:1).’ While the A. V. gives the plural ‘minds,’ the original has the singular ‘mind.’ On the word itself see Note on 1 Peter 1:13.
	