16. Then Herod, c.—As Deborah
	sang of the mother of Sisera: "She looked out at a window, and
	cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why
	tarry the wheels of his chariots? Have they not sped?" so Herod
	wonders that his messengers, with pious zeal, are not hastening with
	the news that all is ready to receive him as a worshipper. What can
	be keeping them? Have they missed their way? Has any disaster
	befallen them? At length his patience is exhausted. He makes his
	inquiries and finds they are already far beyond his reach on their
	way home. 
	when he saw that he was
	mocked—was trifled with. 
	of the wise men—No,
	Herod, thou art not mocked of the wise men, but of a Higher than
	they. He that sitteth in the heavens doth laugh at thee the Lord hath
	thee in derision. He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that
	their hands cannot perform their enterprise. He taketh the wise in
	their own craftiness, and the counsel of the froward is carried
	headlong (Psalms 2:4; Job 5:12;
	Job 5:13). That blessed Babe
	shall die indeed, but not by thy hand. As He afterwards told that son
	of thine—as cunning and as unscrupulous as thyself—when the
	Pharisees warned Him to depart, for Herod would seek to kill
	Him—"Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out
	devils, and I do cures to-day and to-morrow, and the third day I
	shall be perfected. Nevertheless I must walk to-day, and to-morrow,
	and the day following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of
	Jerusalem" (Luke 13:32;
	Luke 13:33). Bitter satire! 
	was exceeding wroth—To
	be made a fool of is what none like, and proud kings cannot stand.
	Herod burns with rage and is like a wild bull in a net. So he 
	sent forth—a band of
	hired murderers. 
	and slew all the
	children—male children. 
	that were in Bethlehem, and
	in all the coasts thereof—environs. 
	from two years old and under,
	according to the time which he had diligently—carefully. 
	inquired of the wise men—In
	this ferocious step Herod was like himself—as crafty as cruel. He
	takes a large sweep, not to miss his mark. He thinks this will surely
	embrace his victim. And so it had, if He had been there. But He is
	gone. Heaven and earth shall sooner pass away than thou shalt have
	that Babe into thy hands. Therefore, Herod, thou must be content to
	want Him: to fill up the cup of thy bitter mortifications, already
	full enough—until thou die not less of a broken heart than of a
	loathsome and excruciating disease. Why, ask skeptics and skeptical
	critics, is not this massacre, if it really occurred, recorded by
	JOSEPHUS, who is minute
	enough in detailing the cruelties of Herod? To this the answer is not
	difficult. If we consider how small a town Bethlehem was, it is not
	likely there would be many male children in it from two years old and
	under; and when we think of the number of fouler atrocities which
	JOSEPHUS has recorded of
	him, it is unreasonable to make anything of his silence on this.