4. Daniel 11:36;
	Daniel 11:37 is here referred to.
	The words used there as to Antiochus Epiphanes, Paul implies, shall
	even be more applicable to the man of sin, who is the New Testament
	actual Antichrist, as Antiochus was the Old Testament typical
	Antichrist. The previous world kingdoms had each one extraordinary
	person as its representative head and embodiment (thus Babylon had
	Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel 2:38, end;
	Medo-Persia had Cyrus; Greece had Alexander, and Antiochus Epiphanes,
	the forerunner of Antichrist); so the fourth and last world kingdom,
	under which we now live, shall have one final head, the concentrated
	embodiment of all the sin and lawless iniquity which
	have been in pagan and papal Rome. Rome's final phase will probably
	be an unholy alliance between idolatrous superstition and godless
	infidelity. 
	Who opposeth and exalteth
	himself—There is but one Greek article to both
	participles, implying that the reason why he opposeth himself
	is in order that he may exalt himself above, c. ALFORD
	takes the former clause absolutely, "He that withstands
	(CHRIST)," that is,
	Antichrist (1 John 2:18). As at
	the conclusion of the Old Testament period, Israel apostate allied
	itself with the heathen world power against Jesus and His apostles
	(Luke 23:12 and at Thessalonica,
	Acts 17:5-9), and was in
	righteous retribution punished by the instrumentality of the world
	power itself (Jerusalem being destroyed by Rome), Daniel 9:26;
	Daniel 9:27; so the degenerate
	Church (become an "harlot"), allying itself with the
	godless world power (the "beast" of Revelation) against
	vital religion (that is, the harlot sitting on the beast), shall be
	judged by that world power which shall be finally embodied in
	Antichrist (Zechariah 13:8; Zechariah 13:9;
	Zechariah 14:2; Revelation 17:16;
	Revelation 17:17). In this early
	Epistle, the apostate Jewish Church as the harlot, and pagan Rome as
	the beast, form the historical background on which Paul draws his
	prophetic sketch of the apostasy. In the Pastoral Epistles, which
	were later, this prophecy appears in connection with Gnosticism,
	which had at that time infected the Church. The harlot (the apostate
	Church) is first to be judged by the beast (the world power) and its
	kings (Revelation 17:16); and
	afterwards the beasts and their allies (with the personal Antichrist
	at their head, who seems to rise after the judgment on the harlot, or
	apostate Church) shall be judged by the coming of Jesus Himself (Revelation 17:16- :). Anti-Christian tendencies produce different Antichrists:
	these separate Antichrists shall hereafter find their consummation in
	an individual exceeding them all in the intensity of his evil
	character [AUBERLEN]. But
	judgment soon overtakes him. He is necessarily a child of death,
	immediately after his ascent as the beast out of the
	bottomless pit going into perdition (Revelation 17:8;
	Revelation 17:11). Idolatry of self,
	spiritual pride, and rebellion against God, are his
	characteristics; as Christ-worship, humility, and dependence
	on God, characterize Christianity. He not merely assumes
	Christ's character (as the "false Christs," Revelation 17:11- :), but "opposes" Christ. The Greek
	implies one situated on an opposite side (compare 1 John 2:22;
	2 John 1:7). One who, on the
	destruction of every religion, shall seek to establish his own
	throne, and for God's great truth, "God is man," to
	substitute his own lie, "Man is God" [TRENCH].
	above all that is called God—
	(1 Corinthians 8:5). The Pope (for
	instance, Clement VI) has even commanded the angels to admit into
	Paradise, without the alleged pains of purgatory, certain souls. But
	still this is only a foreshadowing of the Antichrist, who will not,
	as the Pope, act in God's name, but against God. 
	or that is worshipped—Rome
	here again gives a presage of Antichrist. The Greek is
	Sebasma; and Sebastus is the Greek for Augustus,
	who was worshipped as the secular ruler and divine vicegerent. The
	papacy has risen on the overthrow of Cæsar's power.
	Antichrist shall exalt himself above every object of worship,
	whether on earth as the Cæsar, or in heaven as God. The various
	prefigurations of Antichrist, Mohammed, Rome, Napoleon, and modern
	infidel secularism, contain only some, not all, his
	characteristics. It is the union of all in some one person that shall
	form the full Antichrist, as the union in one Person, Jesus, of all
	the types and prophecies constituted the full Christ [OLSHAUSEN].
	in the temple of God . . .
	that he is God—"He will reign a time, times, and half a
	time" (Daniel 7:25), that is,
	three and a half years, and will sit in the temple at Jerusalem:
	then the Lord shall come from heaven and cast him into the take of
	fire and shall bring to the saints the times of their reigning, the
	seventh day of hallowed rest, and give to Abraham the promised
	inheritance" [IRENÆUS,
	Against Heresies, 30.4]. 
	showing himself—with
	blasphemous and arrogant DISPLAY
	(compare a type, Daniel 7:25- :). The earliest Fathers unanimously looked for a personal
	Antichrist. Two objections exist to Romanism being regarded the
	Antichrist, though probably Romanism will leave its culmination
	in him: (1) So far is Romanism from opposing all that is called
	God, that adoration of gods and lords many (the Virgin Mary and
	saints) is a leading feature in it; (2) the papacy has existed for
	more than twelve centuries, and yet Christ is not come, whereas the
	prophecy regards the final Antichrist as short-lived, and soon going
	to perdition through the coming of Christ (Revelation 17:8;
	Revelation 17:11). Gregory the Great
	declared against the patriarch of Constantinople, that whosoever
	should assume the title of "universal bishop" would be "the
	forerunner of Antichrist." The papacy fulfilled this his
	undesigned prophecy. The Pope has been called by his followers, "Our
	Lord God the Pope"; and at his inauguration in St. Peter's,
	seated in his chair upon the high altar, which is treated as his
	footstool, he has vividly foreshadowed him who "exalteth himself
	above all that is called God." An objection fatal to
	interpreting the temple of God here as the Church
	(1 Corinthians 3:16; 1 Corinthians 3:17;
	1 Corinthians 6:19) is, the apostle would
	never designate the apostate anti-Christian Church "the
	temple of God." It is likely that, as Messiah was
	revealed among the Jews at Jerusalem, so Antimessiah shall appear
	among them when restored to their own land, and after they have
	rebuilt their temple at Jerusalem. Thus Daniel 11:41;
	Daniel 11:45 (see on Daniel 11:45- :; Daniel 11:45- :), corresponds,
	"He shall enter the glorious land (Judea), and he shall plant
	the tabernacles of his palaces between the seas in the glorious
	holy mountain"; and then (Daniel 11:45- :) "Michael, the great prince, shall stand up" to
	deliver God's people. Compare Note, see on Daniel 11:45- :. Also the king of Assyria, type of Antichrist (Daniel 11:45- :). "Lucifer" (a title of Messiah, assumed by
	Antichrist, Revelation 22:16); "I
	will exalt my throne above the stars of God." "I will sit
	upon the mount of the congregation (that is, God's place of
	meeting His people of old, the temple), in the sides of the north
	(Psalms 48:2); I will be like the
	Most High." Revelation 11:1;
	Revelation 11:2, "The temple of God
	. . . the holy city" (namely, Jerusalem, Revelation 11:2- :), compare Psalms 68:18;
	Psalms 68:29, referring to a period
	since Christ's ascension, therefore not yet fulfilled (Isaiah 2:1-3;
	Ezekiel 40:1-44; Zechariah 14:16-20;
	Malachi 3:1). "In the temple of
	God," implies that it an internal, not an external, enemy
	which shall assail the Church. Antichrist shall, the first three and
	a half years of the prophetical week, keep the covenant, then break
	it and usurp divine honors in the midst of the week. Some think
	Antichrist will be a Jew. At all events he will, "by
	flatteries," bring many, not only of the Gentiles, but also of
	"the tribes" of Israel (so the Greek for "kindreds,"
	Revelation 11:8; Revelation 11:9),
	to own him as their long-looked-for Messiah, in the same "city
	where our Lord was crucified." "Sitteth" here implies
	his occupying the place of power and majesty in opposition to Him who
	"sitteth on the right hand of the Majesty on high" (Revelation 11:9- :), and who shall come to "sit" there where the
	usurper had sat (Matthew 26:64).
	See on Matthew 26:64- :; Revelation 11:2;
	Revelation 11:3; Revelation 11:9;
	Revelation 11:11. Compare Ezekiel 38:2;
	Ezekiel 38:3; Ezekiel 38:6;
	Ezekiel 38:9; Ezekiel 38:10;
	Ezekiel 38:13; Ezekiel 38:14;
	Ezekiel 38:16, as to Tyre, the type
	of Antichrist, characterized by similar blasphemous arrogance.