James 1:1.  James:  the same name as   the Hebrew Jacob. The James who is the author of this Epistle is the Lord’s brother, known in ecclesiastical history as the bishop of Jerusalem, and was either a son of Mary and Joseph, or a son of Joseph by a previous marriage (see Introduction, sec. 1).  a servant,  literally a bondman or a slave; the word denotes absolute subjection, but we must not associate with it the degradation and involuntary compulsion attached to our conception of slavery. A certain undefined ministerial office is   perhaps implied; but the phrase, ‘a servant of Christ,’ has become a   popular term, belonging not only to all the office-bearers of the Church, but to all Christians (1 Peter 2:16). We are all the servants of Jesus Christ, bound to obey His commands, and to devote ourselves to His service. Some suppose that it is a proof that James was not an apostle, because he calls himself only ‘a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ;’ but this supposition cannot be maintained, as Paul gives himself the same appellation in the Epistle to the Philippians (Philippians 1:1).
	 of  God and of  the Lord Jesus Christ.  Only in another place in this Epistle does James mention our Lord by name (chap. James 2:1), though elsewhere he alludes to Him (chap. James 5:7; James 5:14-15).
	 to the twelve tribes,  a common designation of the Israelites (Acts 26:7). The twelve tribes were now mingled together, and formed the nation of the Jews. The name Israel was, however, still retained as being the covenant people of God; to Israel, and not specifically to the Jews, were the promises made (Romans 9:4).
	 which are scattered abroad,  or more exactly, ‘that are in the dispersion.’ The Dispersion, or the Diaspora, was the name given to those Jews or Israelites who resided in foreign lands beyond the boundaries of Palestine. This Epistle was not written primarily to the Gentile Christians, or to the Jews generally, but to the Christian Jews of the dispersion to those who are elsewhere called Hellenists (see Introduction, sec. 2). The Jews were everywhere ‘scattered abroad.’ Josephus says that it was not easy to find an eminent place in the whole world where the Jews did not reside; and the same observation holds good in the present day.
	 greeting,  or ‘wishes joy.’ The usual Greek form of salutation. It is found at the commencement of no other apostolic Epistle, but occurs in the Epistle drawn up by James, addressed to the Gentile churches, at the council of Jerusalem (Acts 15:23), over which James seems to have presided.
	