James 1:10.  But the rich. Some suppose that by the rich here is meant the unbeliever; not the rich brother, but the rich man; and accordingly they understand the words either as ironical, ‘Let the rich man rejoice in let him glory in what is in reality his shame, his humiliation;’ or as a statement of fact, ‘The rich man rejoices in his humiliation,’ in his riches, which shall perish. But such a meaning appears to be forced and unnatural. The most natural meaning is to take the word ‘brother’ as a general term, which is specified by the lowly and the rich. The rich man, then, is here the Christian brother. Although most of the early Christians were poor, yet there were several among them who were rich; and to them there were addressed special exhortations; as when St. Paul says: ‘Charge them that are rich not to trust in uncertain riches’ (1 Timothy 6:17). The word ‘rejoice’ or ‘glory’ has to be supplied: Let the rich brother glory  in that he is made low: literally, ‘in his humiliation.’ There is here also the same diversity of meaning as in the former verse. It is usually understood of humility of spirit: ‘Let the wealthy brother rejoice in that lowliness of spirit which the Gospel has conferred upon him: ‘that by being made conscious of the vanity of earthly riches, he has been induced to seek after the true riches; to cultivate that spiritual abasement which is the prelude of true exaltation. Although rich in this world, yet as a Christian he is poor in spirit, and clothed with humility. Others refer it to a rich man being stripped of his possessions by persecution for the sake of the Gospel: ‘Let him glory in being thus deprived of his worldly wealth.’ Perhaps the words may also be taken in their most literal meaning: ‘Let the rich brother rejoice when he becomes poor,’ when he is reduced from affluence to poverty, because he is then freed from the snares and temptations of riches. This is indeed a high attainment in piety, but it is one which has been made by many of the children of God. Riches are too frequently an obstacle to salvation; and when taken away, believers may have abundant reason to thank God that that obstacle has been removed.  because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. A common figure in the O. T., expressive of the instability of earthly blessings. ‘All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field: the grass withereth, and the flower fadeth’ (Isaiah 40:6-7).
	