Galatians 6:6.  Let him that is taught  (or, orally  instructed) in the word  (of God)  share with him that teacheth, in all good things  (temporal possessions of every kind). Injunction of the duty of the congregation to support liberally their teachers. Their relation is a partnership, a communion of interests. They are mutually dependent and helpful, and should share each other’s blessings and burdens. Temporal support is but a small return for spiritual blessings. The Galatians needed this exhortation very much. They were asked to contribute to the suffering churches in Judaea (1 Corinthians 16:1), but we do not learn that they did it. The niggardly spirit of the Gauls was proverbial. [1] Paul set a noble example of self-denial in supporting himself as a tent-maker, preaching the gospel by day and working at his trade by night! Only by exception he received contributions from his beloved Philippians. And he was never weary to take up collections in his poor congregations for the support of the still poorer brethren in Judaea. But as our Saviour laid down the principle ‘that the laborer is worthy of his hire’ (Luke 10:7), so the Apostle repeatedly urges upon his readers the duty of supporting their teachers. See 1 Thessalonians 2:6; 1 Thessalonians 2:9; 1 Corinthians 9:4 ff.; 2 Corinthians 11:7 ff.; Php 4:10 ff.; 1 Timothy 5:17-18. The less a minister says on the pulpit about his salary the better; but sometimes duty requires plain talk on this delicate subject. The passage implies that the church ought to be supported by voluntary contributions of the people, not by taxation, which checks the exercise of liberality, and is apt to create indifference and dislike. Galatians 6:7. Enforces the duty of liberality. It carries in itself its own exceeding great reward, for ‘it is more blessed to rive than to receive,’ and sows the seed for a rich harvest in heaven; while illiberality and stinginess belittles and beggars the man here, and lets him go empty on the great day of reward.
	 [1] Livy calls the Galatians ‘  avidissima repiendi gens ’   (xxxviii. 27).
	 Be not deceived.  How many deceive themselves and imagine that they can withhold from their minister his just dues without incurring the displeasure of God.
	 God is not mocked,  cannot be treated with contempt without provoking his righteous punishment
	 Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.  (Comp. 2 Corinthians 9:6.) A proverbial expression (Job 4:8), found also  among  classical writers (Aristotle, Cicero, etc.), but here spiritualized and applied to the future reward and punishment. The present life is the seed time, the future life the harvest. Who sows grain will reap grain, who sows tares will reap tares; who sows plentifully will reap plentifully, who sows sparingly will reap sparingly. Those who keep this great truth constantly before their eyes will redeem every hour and use every opportunity to do good.
	