Galatians 6:15.  For [in Christ Jesus] neither circumcision is any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.  Comp  . Galatians 5:6 and note, and 1 Corinthians 7:19. All external distinctions are lost in Christ, and the new creature is everything. In all these passages the first clause is the same, but the second differs, namely: Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but faith which worketh by love (Galatians 5:6); a new creature (Galatians 6:15); keeping the commandments of God (1 Corinthians 7:19)  ‘ A new creature.’ The Greek may mean the act of creation, or the thing created. Here the latter, as the result of a creating act of God. 2 Corinthians 5:17: ‘If any man is in Christ, he is a new creature; the old things have passed away; behold, they are become new.’ (Comp. also Ephesians 2:10; Ephesians 2:15; Ephesians 4:24.) The phrase ‘new creature’ was common among Jewish writers to designate a moral change or conversion to Judaism (= proselyte); but in Paul it has a far deeper spiritual meaning.
	The remarks of Luther on this verse are worth quoting as a characteristic specimen of his famous Commentary, which is not so much an exposition as an expansion and application of Paul’s Epistle to the controversies of the sixteenth century. ‘This is,’ he says, ‘a wonderful kind of speech which Paul here uses, when he says, “Neither circumcision or uncircumcision availeth any thing.” It may seem that he should rather have said, “Either circumcision or uncircumcision availeth somewhat;” seeing these are two contrary things. But now he denies that either the one or the other is of any consequence. As if he should have said, Ye must mount up higher; for circumcision and uncircumcision are things of no such importance, that they are able to obtain righteousness before God. True it is, that they are contrary the one to the other; but this is nothing as touching Christian righteousness, which is not earthly, but heavenly, and therefore it consists not in corporal things. Therefore, whether thou be circumcised or uncircumcised, it is all one thing; for in Christ Jesus neither the one nor the other availeth anything at all. The Jews were greatly offended when they heard that circumcision availed nothing. They easily granted that uncircumcision availed nothing; but they could not abide to hear that so much should be said of circumcision, for they fought even unto blood for the defence of the law and circumcision. The Papists also at this day do vehemently contend for the maintenance of their traditions as touching the eating of flesh, single life, holy days, and such other; and they excommunicate and curse us, who teach that in Christ Jesus these things do nothing avail. But Paul says that we must have another thing which is much more excellent and precious, whereby we may obtain righteousness before God. In Christ Jesus, says he, neither circumcision, nor uncircumcision, neither single life nor marriage, neither meat nor fasting, do any whit avail. Meat makes us not acceptable before God. We are neither the better by abstaining, nor the worse by eating. All these things, yea the whole world, with all the laws and righteousness thereof, avail nothing to justification.’
	