 Actually  (ολως). Literally, wholly, altogether, like Latin omnino and Greek παντως (1 Corinthians 9:22). So papyri have it for "really" and also for "generally" or "everywhere" as is possible here. See also 1 Corinthians 6:7. With a negative it has the sense of "not at all" as in 1 Corinthians 15:29; Matthew 5:34 the only N.T. examples, though a common word.It is reported  (ακουετα). Present passive indicative of ακουω, to hear; so literally, it is heard. "Fornication is heard of among you." Probably the household of Chloe (1 Corinthians 1:11) brought this sad news (Ellicott).And such  (κα τοιαυτη). Climactic qualitative pronoun showing the revolting character of this particular case of illicit sexual intercourse. Πορνεια is sometimes used (Acts 15:20; Acts 15:29) of such sin in general and not merely of the unmarried whereas μοιχεια is technically adultery on the part of the married (Mark 7:21).As is not even among the Gentiles  (ητις ουδε εν τοις εθνεσιν). Height of scorn. The Corinthian Christians were actually trying to win pagans to Christ and living more loosely than the Corinthian heathen among whom the very word "Corinthianize" meant to live in sexual wantonness and license. See Cicero pro Cluentio, v. 14.That one of you hath his father's wife  (ωστε γυναικα τινα του πατρος εχειν). "So as (usual force of ωστε) for one to go on having (εχειν, present infinitive) a wife of the (his) father." It was probably a permanent union (concubine or mistress) of some kind without formal marriage like John 4:8. The woman probably was not the offender's mother (step-mother) and the father may have been dead or divorced. The Jewish law prescribed stoning for this crime (Leviticus 18:8; Leviticus 22:11; Deuteronomy 22:30). But the rabbis (Rabbi Akibah) invented a subterfuge in the case of a proselyte to permit such a relation. Perhaps the Corinthians had also learned how to split hairs over moral matters in such an evil atmosphere and so to condone this crime in one of their own members. Expulsion Paul had urged in 2 Thessalonians 3:6 for such offenders. 