26. To declare . . . at this
	time—now for the first time, under the Gospel. 
	his righteousness: that he
	might be just, and the justifier of him that believeth in
	Jesus—Glorious paradox! "Just in punishing," and
	"merciful in pardoning," men can understand; but "just
	in justifying the guilty," startles them. But the propitiation
	through faith in Christ's blood resolves the paradox and harmonizes
	the discordant elements. For in that "God hath made Him to be
	sin for us who knew no sin," justice has full
	satisfaction; and in that "we are made the righteousness of God
	in Him," mercy has her heart's delight! 
	Note, (1) One way of a
	sinner's justification is taught in the Old Testament and in the New
	alike: only more dimly during the twilight of Revelation; in
	unclouded light under "its perfect day" ( :-). (2) As there is no difference in the need, so is
	there none in the liberty to appropriate the provided
	salvation. The best need to be saved by faith in Jesus Christ; and
	the worst only need that. On this common ground all saved sinners
	meet here, and will stand for ever ( :-). (3) It is on the atoning blood of Christ, as the one
	propitiatory sacrifice which God hath set forth to the eye of the
	guilty, that the faith of the convinced and trembling sinner fastens
	for deliverance from wrath. Though he knows that he is "justified
	freely, by God's grace," it is only because it is "through
	the redemption that is in Christ Jesus" that he is able
	to find peace and rest even in this ( :-). (4) The strictly accurate view of believers under the Old
	Testament is not that of a company of pardoned men, but of men
	whose sins, put up with and passed by in the meantime, awaited a
	future expiation in the fulness of time (Romans 3:25;
	Romans 3:26; see on Romans 3:26- :; Romans 3:26- :; Romans 3:26- :). 
	Romans 3:26- :. INFERENCES FROM THE
	FOREGOING DOCTRINES
	AND AN OBJECTION
	ANSWERED. 
	Inference first: Boasting is
	excluded by this, and no other way of justification.