8.By honor and dishonor This is no slight test for subjecting a man to trial, for to a man of a noble spirit nothing is more unpleasant, than to incur disgrace. Hence we may observe in all histories, that there have been few men of heroism that have not fallen back, on being irritated by insults. (594) Hence it is indicative of a mind well established in virtue, not to be moved away from one’s course by any disgrace that may be incurred — a rare virtue, but one without which you cannot show that you are a servant of God. We must, it is true, have a regard to good character, but it must be only in so far as the edification of our brethren requires it, and in such a way as not to be dependent on reports (595) — nay more, so as to maintain in the same even course in honor and in dishonor. For God allows us to be tried even by the slander of wicked men, with the view of trying us, (596) whether we act uprightly from disinterested motives; (597) for if one is drawn aside from duty by the ingratitude of men, that man shows that he had not his eye directed to God alone. As then we see that Paul was exposed to infamy and insults, and yet did not on that account stop short, but held forward with undaunted courage, and broke through every impediment so as to reach the goal, (598) let us not give way, if the same thing should befall us. As deceivers Here he relates, not simply in what estimation he was held by the wicked and those that were without, (1 Corinthians 5:12,) but also what views were entertained of him by those that were within. Now let every one consider with himself, how unseemly was the ingratitude of the Corinthians, and how great was his magnanimity in struggling forward, in spite of such formidable obstacles. By indirect representations, however, he sharply reproves their perverse judgment, when he says that he lives and is joyful, while they despised him as one that was dead and overwhelmed with grief. He reproaches them, also, with ingratitude, when he says, that he made many rich, while he was contemned on account of his poverty. For they were of the number of those whom he enriched by his wealth: nay more, all of them to a man were under obligations to him on many accounts. Thus he said previously, by way of irony, that he was unknown, while at the same time the fruit of his labor was everywhere known and celebrated. But how cruel to despise the poverty of the man who supplies you (599) from his abundance! He means spiritual riches, which ought to be much more esteemed than earthly. (594) “Il y en a eu bien peu, qui estans irritez des iniures et mauuais traittemens que on leur faisoit, ne se soyent descouragez, et n’ayent laissez leur train de vertu;” — “There have been very few of them, who have not, on being irritated by injuries and bad treatment shown them, felt discouraged, and left off their virtuous career.” (595) “Du bruit qu’on fera courir de nous;” — “On reports that may be circulated against us.” (596) “Voulant essayer si nous cheminons droit settlement pour l’amour de luy, sans cercher autre recompense;” — “Wishing to try whether we walk aright, purely from love to Him, without seeking any other reward.” (597) “Gratuito ;” — “gratuitously. ” — There can be no doubt, that Calvln has here in his eye Job 1:9. “Doth Job fear God for nought?” The Hebrew word החנים (hachinnam,) is rendered in the Septuagint δωρεὰν — gratuitously (598) “Mesme faisant violence... tous empeschemens, est venu, comme par force, jusques au bout;” — “Even breaking violently through all impediments, came, as it were, by fource to the goal.” (599) “Qui to fournit et enrichit par son abundance;” — “Who furnishes and enriches thee by his abundance.” 