4.In much patience. The whole of the enumeration that follows is intended to show, that all the tests by which the Lord is accustomed to try his servants were to be found in Paul, and that there was no kind of test to which he had not been subjected, in order that the faithfulness of his ministry might be more fully established. (584) Among other things that he enumerates, there are some that are under all circumstances required for all the servants of Christ. Of this nature are labors, sincerity, knowledge, watchings, gentleness, love, the word of truth, the Spirit, the power of God, the armor of righteousness. There are other things that are not necessary in all cases; for in order that any one may be a servant of Christ, it is not absolutely necessary, that he be put to the test by means of stripes and imprisonments Hence these things will in some cases be wanting in the experience of the best. It becomes all, however, to be of such a disposition as to present themselves to be tried, as Paul was, with stripes and imprisonments, if the Lord shall see meet. Patience is the regulation of the mind in adversity, which is an excellence that ought invariably to distinguish a good minister. (585) Afflictions include more than necessities; for by the term necessity here I understand poverty. Now this is common to many ministers, there being few of them that are not in poor circumstances; but at the same time not to all. For why should a moderate amount of riches prevent a man from being reckoned a servant of Christ, who, in other respects, is pious, is of upright mind and honorable deportment, and is distinguished by other excellences. As the man that is poor is not on that account to be straightway accounted a good minister, so the man that is rich is not on that account to be rejected. Nay more, Paul in another passage glories not less in his knowing how to abound, than in knowing how to be in want. (Philippians 4:12.) Hence we must observe the distinction that I have mentioned, between occasional and invariable grounds of commendation. (586) (584) “Afin que sa fidelite fust tant plus notoire, et la certitude de son ministere tant mieux approuvee;” — “In order that his faithfulness might be so much the better known, and the stability of his ministry so much the better approved.” (585) “The words ἐν ὑπομονὣ πολλὣ, (in much patience,) must be connected with the following clauses up to ἐν νηστεί αις (in watchings,) and denote patient endurance of the various afflictions specified in the words following, which are not to be treated (with Rosenm.) as merely synonymes denoting evils in general, but considered specially, and (as I conceive the Apostle meant) in groups. ” — Bloomfield. — Ed. (586) “Entre les louanges temporelles et perpetuelles, c’est... dire qui doyuent tousiours estre es vrais ministres;” — “Between occasional grounds of commendation and perpetual, that is to say, what ought to be found invariably in true ministers.” 