 10 .]  δέ is transitional; the contrast being between the personal matters which are now introduced, and those more solemn ones which he has just been treating.
	 ἐν κυρίῳ ] see above, ch. Philippians 3:1 , Philippians 4:4 . “Every occurrence, in his view, has reference to Christ, takes from Him its character and form.” Wiesinger.
	 ἤδη ποτέ ]  now at length , as E. V.: ‘tandem aliquando:’ χρόνον δηλοῦντός ἐστι μακρόν , Chrys. The  ποτέ takes up and makes indefinite the  ἤδη : as in δή ποτε , δή που , &c. See Klotz ad Devar. p. 607, 8. But no  reproof is conveyed by the expression, as Chrys. thinks: see below.
	 ἀνεθάλετε ] lit.  ye came into leaf ; “metaphora sumta ab arboribus, quarum vis hyeme contracta latet, vere florere incipit,” Calv. But it is fanciful to conclude with Bengel, that it  was Spring , when the gift came: see on a similar fancy in 1 Corinthians 5:7 . The word is taken transitively (see reff.) by Grot., all., ‘  ye caused to spring again your care for me ’ (see below): but the intransitive only will suit the sense here  ye budded forth again in caring for my interest (see below). Your care for  me was, so to speak, the  life of the tree; it existed just as much in winter when there was no vegetation, when ye ἠκαιρεῖσθε , as when the buds were put forth in spring. This is evident by what follows. We must thank Meyer, to whom we owe so much in accuracy of grammatical interpretation, for having followed out the right track here, first indicated by Bengel, and rendered τὸ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ as the accusative governed by φρονεῖν . The ordinary way (so Wiesinger and Ellicott recently) has been to regard the words as = τὸ φρονεῖν ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ , thus depriving the relative ἐφ ʼ ᾧ of any thing to refer to, and producing the logical absurdity (Mey.), ἐφρονεῖτε ἐπὶ τῷ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ φρονεῖν , or forcing ἐφ ʼ ᾧ to some unjustified meaning (‘  although ,’ as Luth., al., ‘  sicut ,’ as vulg., &c.), or understanding it ‘  for whom ,’ as Calv., al., contrary to the Apostle’s usage, in which (reff.) ἐφ ʼ ᾧ is always neuter. But if we take τὸ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ together, ‘  my interest ,’ and govern it by φρονεῖν , all will be simple and clear:  I rejoiced, &c. that at last ye flourished in anxiety for my interest: for which purpose (cf. Plato, Gorg. p. 502 B, ἐφ ʼ ᾧ ἐσπούδακε : the purpose, namely,  of flourishing, putting forth the supply which you have now sent. Wiesinger prefers the other, and vindicates it from Meyer’s imputation: but to me not convincingly: as neither Ellicott)  ye also  were  anxious (all that long time, imperfect),  but had no opportunity (  ἀκαιρέω is a word of later Greek:  εὐκαιρέω , its opposite, is used by Lucian, Plutarch, Polyb., &c., as also its compounds ἐνευκαιρέω , προσευκαιρέω , &c. See Phryn. ed. Lobeck, p. 125. Wiesinger well remarks that we must not press this ἠκαιρεῖσθε into a definite hypothesis, such as that their financial state was not adequate that they had no means of conveyance, &c. it is perfectly general, and all such fillings up are mere conjecture).