 17 4:1 .]  Exhortation to follow his example (17):  warning against the enemies of the cross of Christ (18, 19):  declaration of the high privileges and hopes of Christians (20, 21),  and affectionate entreaty to stedfastness ( Php 4:1 ).  Be imitators together (i.e. with one another: so, and not imitators together with those mentioned below (Mey., Wies.), must the word here be rendered. The latter would be allowable as far as the word is concerned, but the form of the sentence determines for the other.  συμμιμηταί μου γίνεσθε forms a complete clause, in which  συμμιμηταί has the place of emphasis, and in συμμιμηταί the preposition: it is therefore unallowable to pass on the sense of the συμ . to another clause from which it is separated by  καί and another verb. So that instead of  καὶ σκοπεῖτε κ . τ . λ . being a reason for this meaning, it is in fact a reason against it) of me, and observe (for imitation: τοὺς εὐτέλειαν μᾶλλον ἢ πολυχρηματίαν σκοποῦντας , Xen. Symp. iv. 42)  those who walk in such manner as ye have an example in us . The construction is much controverted. Meyer and Wiesinger would separate οὕτως and καθώς  observe those who thus walk (i.e. as implied above);  as ye have (emphatic ye are not in want of)  an example in us (viz. Paul and those who thus walk). My objection to this is, that if  οὕτως and  καθώς are to be independent the three verbs  γίνεσθε  ,   σκοπεῖτε  ,   ἔχετε , being thus thrown into three independent clauses, will be all correlative, and the  ἔχετε τύπον will not apply to  οὕτως περιπατοῦντας , but to the foregoing verbs, thus stultifying the sentence: “  Be &c., and observe &c., as ye have an example (viz. of being συμμιμηταί μου and of σκοπεῖν τοὺς οὕτως περιπατοῦντας )  in us .” Besides which, the  οὕτως περιπατοῦντας would he (1) very vague as referring back to what  went before , seeing that no περιπατεῖν has been specified, whereas (2) it is directly related to what  follows , by the  πολλοὶ περιπατοῦσιν of Philippians 3:18 . I therefore retain the usuul rendering. Meyer’s objections to it are, (1) that it is  ἔχετε , not ἔχουσιν : but this does not affect the matter: for, the example including in its reference the τοὺς οὕτως περιπατοῦντας and the Philippians, the 2nd person would be more naturally used, the 3rd making a separation which would not be desirable: (2) that it is ἡμᾶς , not ἐμέ : but granting that this does not apply to Paul alone, it certainly cannot, as Mey., be meant to include the τοὺς οὕτ . περ . with him, which would be a way of speaking unprecedented in his writings, but must apply to himself and his fellow-workers, Timotheus, Epaphroditus, &c. Of course the τύπον is no objection (as De W.) to the proper plural sense of ἡμᾶς , for it is used of that wherein they were all united in one category, as in ἡδεῖς τὴν ὄψιν (Plato), κακοὶ τὴν ψυχήν (Æsch.): see Kühner, ii. 27.