 7 .]  Consequence of this laying every thing before God in prayer with thanksgiving  peace unspeakable .
	 καί ,  and then .
	 ἡ εἰρ  .   τοῦ θεοῦ , that peace which rests in God and is wrought by Him in the soul, the counterpoise of all troubles and anxieties see John 16:33 … ἵνα ἐν ἐμοὶ εἰρήνην ἔχητε · ἐν τῷ κόσμῳ θλίψιν ἔχετε . Meyer denies that εἰρήνη ever has this meaning: but he is certainly wrong. The above verse, and John 16:27 , Colossians 3:15 , cannot be fully interpreted on  his meaning, mere  mutual concord . It is of course true, that mutual concord, and τὸ ἐπιεικές , are necessary elements of this peace: but it goes far beyond them. See the alternatives thoroughly discussed, as usual, in Ellic.’s note.
	 ἡ ὑπερέχουσα πάντα νοῦν ] not as Chrys., ὅταν λέγῃ πρὸς τοὺς ἐχθροὺς εἰρηνεύειν … πῶς οὐχ ὑπὲρ νοῦν ἐστιν ἀνθρώπινον τοῦτο ; nor as Estius, “quia omnem expectationem humanam excedit, quod Deus pro inimicis sibi reconciliandis filium suum dederit in mortem:” nor as Calvin, “quia nihil humano ingenio magis adversum, quam in summa desperatione nihilominus sperare:” but as Erasm., all., “res felicior quam ut humana mens queat percipere.”  νοῦς is the  intelligent faculty , the perceptive and appreciative power: reff. On the sentiment itself, cf. Ephesians 3:19 .
	 φρουρήσει must not with Chrys., Thdrt., Thl., Luth., all. and Vulg., be made  optative in sense: it is not a wish, but a declaration following upon the performance of the injunction above.
	 τὰς καρδίας ὑμῶν κ  .   τὰ νοήματα ὑμῶν ] The  heart is the fountain of the  thoughts , i.e. designs, plans (not  minds , as E. V.): so that this expression is equivalent to ‘  your hearts themselves, and their fruits .’
	 ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ is not the predicate after φρουρήσει  shall keep &c. in Christ , i.e. keep them from falling from Christ ( ὥστε μένειν κ . μὴ ἐκπεσεῖν αὐτοῦ τῆς πίστεως , Chrys.): but, as usual, denotes the sphere or element of the φρουρά thus bestowed that it shall be a Christian security: the verb φρουρήσει being  absolute .