 15 .]  δέ contrasts this former service with their present one.
	 καὶ ὑμεῖς ] ‘as well as I myself.’ He addresses them  by name (as 2Co 6:11 ) to mark them particularly as those who did what follows: but not to the absolute exclusion of others, as Bengel (‘antitheton ad ecclesias aliorum oppidorum’): others  may have done it too, for aught that this appellative implies: that they did not, is by and by expressly asserted:  ἐν ἀρχῇ τοῦ εὐαγγελίου ,  penes vos , Beng.: he places himself in their situation; dates from (so to speak)  their Christian era. This he specifies by  ὅτε ἐξῆλθον ἀπὸ Μακεδονίας . See Acts 17:14 . By this is not meant, as commonly understood, the supply which he received at Corinth ( 2Co 11:9 ), in order to which De W., Wies., al., understand  ἐξῆλθον as a pluperfect, but that mentioned below: see there:  ἐξῆλθον being the aorist marking the simple date:  when I left Macedonia .
	 οὐδεμία μοι ἐκκλησία ]  no church communicated with me as to (in)  an account of giving and receiving (i.e. every receipt being part of  the department of giving and receiving , being  one side of such a reckoning, ye alone opened such an account with me. It is true the Philippians had all the giving, the Apostle all the receiving: the debtor side was vacant in  their account, the creditor side in  his : but this did not make it any the less an account of “giving-and-receiving,” categorically so called. This explanation, which is Meyer’s, is in my view far the most simple (against Ellic., who apparently has misunderstood it), and preferable to the almost universal one, that his creditor and their debtor side was that which he  spiritually imparted to them: for the introduction of spiritual gifts does not belong to the context, and therefore disturbs it. Similar usages of λῆψις κ . δόσις occur: e.g. Artemid. i. 44, οἱ διὰ δόσεως κ . λήψεως ποριζόμενοι : Arrian, Epict. ii. 9, τὸν φιλάργυρον ( ἐπαύξουσιν ) αἱ ἀκατάλληλοι λήψεις κ . δόσεις : Cicero, Lælio 16, ‘ratio acceptorum et datorum.’ See Wetst.)  but you only: