 3 .]  ναί assumes the granting of the request just made, and carries on farther the same matter, see Phm 1:20 and note; but does not  conjure , as Grot., al.
	 γνήσιε σύνζυγε ]  true (‘  genuine :’ true, as distinguished from counterfeit: lit. of legitimate worth ( γενήσιος ))  yoke-fellow . Who is intended, it is quite impossible to say. Various opinions have been, (1) that St. Paul addresses  his own wife . So Clem. Alex. Strom. iii. 6 (53), p. 535 P, καὶ ὅ γε Παῦλος οὐκ ὀκνεῖ ἔν τινι ἐπιστολῇ τὴν αὐτοῦ προσαγορεύειν σύνζυγον , ἣν οὐ περιεκόμιζε διὰ τὸ τῆς ὑπηρεσίας εὐσταλές , Eus. H. E. iii. 30, al. But this is evidently an error, and Thdrt. says rightly, τὸν δὲ σύνζ . τινες ἀνοήτως ὑπέλαβον γυναῖκα εἶναι τοῦ ἀποστόλου , οὐ προσεσχηκότες τοῖς ἐν τῇ πρὸς Κορινθίους γεγραμμένοις ( 1Co 7:8 ), ὅτι τοῖς ἀγάμοις συνέταξεν ἑαυτόν . Besides which, the adjective in this case would be feminine, cf. Eur. Alcest. 326, ποίας τυχοῦσα συνζύγου ; and 354, τοιᾶσδ ʼ ἁμαρτάνοντι συνζύγου : perhaps even if it were of two terminations (as adjectives in - ιος frequently in the N. T., e.g. οὐράνιος , Luke 2:13 ; Acts 24:19 ; ὁσίους χεῖρας , 1 Timothy 2:8 , &c. See Winer, § 11. 1), in which case Ellic. remarks, it would revert to three terminations; but authority for this statement seems wanting. (2) that he was the husband, or brother, of Euodia or Syntyche; so Chrys. doubtfully, and Thl., al. But then the epithet would hardly be wanted nor would the expression be at all natural. (3) that he was some fellow-labourer of the Apostle. So Thdrt.,  σύνζυγον καλεῖ , ὡς τὸν αὐτὸν ἕλκοντα τῆς εὐσεβείας ζυγόν , Pelag., all., and De W., and of these some (Grot., Calov., al.) have understood  Epaphroditus , Estius,  Timotheus , Bengel (but afterwards he preferred  Epaphroditus ),  Silas , Luther, the  chief bishop at Philippi. (4) Others have regarded  Σύνζυγε as a proper name: so τινές in Chrys. and Œc., and so Meyer. In this case the γνήσιε would mean, ‘who art veritably, as thy name is,’ a yoke-fellow. And this might be said by the Apostle, who elsewhere compares the Christian minister to the βοῦς ἀλοῶν . It seems to me that we must choose between the two last hypotheses. The objections to each are about of equal weight: the Apostle no where else calls his fellow-labourers σύνζυγοι , and the proper name Σύνζυγος is no where else found. But these are no reasons, respectively, against either hypothesis. We may safely say with Chrys., εἴτε τοῦτο , εἴτε ἐκεῖνο , οὐσφόδρα ἀκριβολογεῖσθαι δεῖ .
	 συνλαμβάνου αὐταῖς ] help them (Euodia and Syntyche): but not, as Grot., ‘ut habeant, unde se suosque honeste sustentent:’ it is  the work of their reconciliation which he clearly has in view, and in which they would need help.
	 αἵτινες ] ‘  utpote quæ ’  seeing that they .… The E. V. here is in error, ‘  help those women which …’ The Gospel at Philippi was first received by  women , Acts 16:13 ff., and these two must have been among those who, having believed, laboured among their own sex for its spread.
	 ἐν τῷ εὐαγ  . ] see reff.
	 μετὰ καὶ Κλήμεντος ] These words belong to  συνήθλησαν , not to συνλαμβάνου , and are rather an additional reminiscence, than a part of the exhortation ‘  as did Clemens also &c.’ q. d. ‘not that I mean, by naming those women with distinction, to imply forgetfulness of those others &c., and especially of Clemens.’ The insertion of καί between the preposition and substantive is said to be a habit principally of Pindar, e.g. ἐν καὶ θαλάσσᾳ , Ol. ii. 28; ἐν καὶ τελευτᾷ , Ol. vii. 26; ἐπὶ καὶ θανάτῳ , Pyth. iv. 330. See Hartung, i. 143.
	It is not necessary to regard the καὶ καί as bound together: so that these examples are in point (against Ellic.).
	Clemens must have been a fellow-worker with the Apostle  at Philippi , from the context here; and, from the non-occurrence of any such name among Paul’s fellow-travellers, and the fact that οἱ λοιποὶ συνεργοί must have been Philippians, himself a native of Philippi. It is perhaps arbitrary, seeing that the name is so common, to assume his identity with Clemens afterwards Bishop of Rome, and author of the Epistles to the Corinthians. So Eus. H. E. iii. 4, ὁ Κλήμης , τῆς Ῥωμαίων κ . αὐτὸς ἐκκλησίας τρίτος ἐπίσκοπος καταστάς , Παύλου συνεργὸς κ . συναθλητὴς γεγονέναι πρὸς αὐτοῦ μαρτυρεῖται : see also H. E. Philippians 4:6 ; so Origen, Com. in Joan. t. vi. 36, vol. iv. p. 153: and Jer. Script. Eccl., 15, vol. ii. p. 854. Chrys. does not notice any such idea. See on the whole, Ellicott’s note.
	 ὧν τὰ ὀν  .   ἐν βίβλῳ ζωῆς ] belongs to the λοιποί , whom  he does not name :  whose names are (not a wish, εἴη , as Bengel, nor are they to be regarded as  dead when this was written)  in the book of life (reff., and Luk 10:20 ).