 8 .]  τὸ λοιπόν resumes again his intention of closing the Epistle with which he had begun ch. 3., but from which he had been diverted by incidental subjects. It is unnatural to attribute to the Apostle so formal a design as De W. does, of now speaking of man’s part, as he had hitherto of God’s part: Chrys. has it rightly, τί ἐστι τὸ λοιπόν : ἀντὶ τοῦ , πάντα ἡμῖν εἴρηται . ἐπειγομένου τὸ ῥῆμά ἐστι , καὶ οὐδὲν κοινὸν ἔχοντος πρὸς τὰ παρόντα .
	This beautiful sentence, full of the Apostle’s fervour and eloquence, derives much force from the frequent repetition of ὅσα , and then of εἴ τις .
	 ἀληθῆ ] subjective,  truthful : not,  true in matter of fact. The whole regards ethical qualities. ταῦτα γὰρ ὄντως ἀληθῆ , ἡ ἀρετή , ψεῦδος δὲ ἡ κακία . κ . γὰρ ἡ ἡδονὴ αὐτῆς ψεῦδος . κ . ἡ δόξα αὐτῆς ψεῦδος , κ . πάντα τὰ τοῦ κόσμου ψεῦδος . Chrys.
	 σεμνά ] τὸ σεμνὸν ὄνομα , τὸ καλόν τε κἀγαθόν , Xen. Œc. vi. 14. It is difficult to give it in any one English word: ‘  honest ’ and ‘  honourable ’ are too weak: ‘  reverend ’ and ‘  venerable ,’ ‘  grave ’ are seldom applied to  things: Nor do I know any other more eligible.
	 δίκαια ] not ‘  just ,’ in respect of others, merely but  right , in that wider sense in which δικαιοσύνη is used before God and man: see this sense Acts 10:22 ; Romans 5:7 .
	 ἁγνά ] not merely ‘  chaste ’ in the ordinary confined acceptation: but  pure generally: “castimoniam denotat in omnibus vitæ partibus.” Calv.
	 προσφιλῆ ]  lovely , in the most general sense: no subjects need be supplied, as τοῖς πιστοῖς , or τῷ θεῷ (Chrys.): for the exhortation is markedly and designedly as  general as possible.
	 εὔφημα ] again, general, and with reference to general fame  of good report , as E. V. The meaning ‘  sermones qui bene aliis precantur ,’ adopted by Storr and Flatt, though philologically justified, is evidently not general enough for our context.
	 εἴ τις ἀρετὴ  … ] sums up all which have gone before and generalizes still further. The E. V. ‘  if there be any virtue ,’ &c. is objectionable, not for the reason alleged by Scholefield, Hints, &c. p. 85, as ‘expressing a doubt of the existence of the thing in the abstract,’ which it does not, but as carrying the appearance of an  adjuration, ‘by the existence of ,’ &c. which conveys a wrong impression of the sense  whatever virtue there is (not ‘there  be ,’ as Scholef.) &c.
	 ἀρετή ]  virtue , in the most general ethical sense:  ἔπαινος ,  praise , not ‘  pro eo quod est laudabile ,’ as Calv., al., but as Erasm., ‘laus, virtutis comes.’ The  disciplinœ , which follows ‘laus’ in the Vulg. &c., is a pure interpolation, and beside the meaning: see various readings.
	 ταῦτα viz., all the foregoing the ἀληθῆ &c., the ἀρετή , and the ἔπαινος  these things meditate : let them be your νοήματα .