According to [κατα] . In virtue of; in accordance with. Foreknowledge [προγνωσιν] . Only here and Acts 2:23, in Peter's sermon at Pentecost. He is distinguishing there between foreknowledge and determinate counsel. The Father. Implying that the relation contemplated by the divine foreknowledge is a new relation of sonship. In sanctification [εν αγιασμω] . Compare 2 Thessalonians 2:13. The spiritual state in which the being elected to salvation is realized. The word is peculiarly Pauline, occurring eight times in Paul 's epistles, and besides only here and Hebrews 12:14. Unto obedience [εις] . Note the three prepositions : according to [κατα] the foreknowledge; in [εν] sanctification; unto [εις] obedience. The ground, sphere, and end of spiritual sanctification. Sprinkling [ραντισμον] . Here in a passive sense - the being sprinkled. Properly, the ritualistic act of sprinkling blood or water. See Numbers 19:19, Numbers 19:21. Compare Hebrews 9:13; Hebrews 12:24; Numbers 19:9, Numbers 19:13, where the water in which were the ashes of the red heifer is called udwr rJantismou, water of sprinkling (Septuagint), which the A. V. and Rev. Old Testament render water of separation. The word and its kindred verb occur only in Hebrews and Peter. Jesus Christ. The foreknowledge of the Father, the sanctification of the Spirit, the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ the Son. The Father foreknowing, the Son atoning, the Spirit applying the Son's work in sanctifying. "The mystery of the Trinity and the economy of our salvation are intimated in this verse" (Bengel). Grace and peace [χαρις - ειρηνη] . Pauline terms. See Romans 1:7. The salutation is peculiar by the addition of be multiplied, which occurs 2 Peter 1:2; Jude 1:2, and nowhere else in the salutations of the epistles. It is found, however, in the Septuagint, Daniel 4:1 (LXX 3 31), and Daniel 6:25. Professor Salmond observes : "If the Babylon from which Peter writes can be taken to be the literal Babylon (see on 5 13), it might be interesting to recall the epistles introduced by salutations so similar to Peter's, which were written from the same capital by two kings, Nebuchadnezzar and Darius, of two great dynasties, and addressed to all their provinces."