1. was—Greek, "came
	to pass"; "began to be." 
	silence in heaven about . . .
	half an hour—The last seal having been broken open, the book of
	God's eternal plan of redemption is opened for the Lamb to read to
	the blessed ones in heaven. The half hour's silence contrasts
	with the previous jubilant songs of the great multitude, taken
	up by the angels ( :-). It is the solemn introduction to the employments and
	enjoyments of the eternal Sabbath-rest of the people of God,
	commencing with the Lamb's reading the book heretofore sealed up, and
	which we cannot know till then. In  :-, similarly at the eve of the sounding of the seventh
	trumpet, when the seven thunders uttered their voices, John is
	forbidden to write them. The seventh trumpet ( :-) winds up God's vast plan of providence and grace in
	redemption, just as the seventh seal brings it to the same
	consummation. So also the seventh vial,  :-. Not that the seven seals, the seven trumpets, and the
	seven vials, though parallel, are repetitions. They each trace the
	course of divine action up to the grand consummation in which they
	all meet, under a different aspect. Thunders, lightnings, an
	earthquake, and voices close the seven thunders and the
	seven seals alike (compare Revelation 8:5;
	Revelation 11:19). Compare at the
	seventh vial, the voices, thunders, lightnings, and earthquake, Revelation 11:19- :. The half-hour silence is the brief pause GIVEN
	TO JOHN between the
	preceding vision and the following one, implying, on the one hand,
	the solemn introduction to the eternal sabbatism which is to follow
	the seventh seal; and, on the other, the silence which continued
	during the incense-accompanied prayers which usher in the first of
	the seven trumpets (Revelation 11:19- :). In the Jewish temple, musical instruments and singing
	resounded during the whole time of the offering of the sacrifices,
	which formed the first part of the service. But at the offering of
	incense, solemn silence was kept ("My soul waiteth upon
	God," Psalms 62:1; "is
	silent," Margin; Psalms 62:1- :, Margin), the people praying secretly all the time.
	The half-hour stillness implies, too, the earnest adoring
	expectation with which the blessed spirits and the angels await the
	succeeding unfolding of God's judgments. A short space is
	implied; for even an hour is so used (Revelation 17:12;
	Revelation 18:10; Revelation 18:19).