 28. ] Among the difficulties attendant on this narrative, the situation and name of the place where the event happened are not the least. Origen’s remarks are: ἡ περὶ τοὺς ὑπὸ τῶν δαιμονίων κατακρημνιζομένους καὶ ἐν τῇ θαλάσσῃ συμπνιγομένους χοίρους οἰκονομία ἀναγέγραπται γεγονέναι ἐν τῇ χώρᾳ τῶν Γερασηνῶν . Γέρασα δὲ τῆς Ἀραβίας ἐστὶ πόλις , οὔτε θάλασσαν οὔτε λίμνην πλησίον ἔχονσα . καὶ ουκ ἂν οὕτως προφανὲς ψεῦδος καὶ εὐέλεγκτον οἱ εὐαγγελισταὶ εἰρήκεσαν , ἄνδρες ἐπιμελῶς γινώσκοντες τὰ περὶ τὴν Ἰουδαίαν . ἐπεὶ δὲ ἐν ὀλίγοις εὕρομεν “ εἰς τὴν χώραν τῶν Γαδαρηνῶν ,” καὶ πρὸς τοῦτο λεκτέον (lit. “we must speak also to (in reference to) this;” discuss this reading also. Dr. Bloomfield’s conjecture, στικτέον , need only be considered by those who are not aware of this common expression). Γάδαρα γὰρ πόλις μέν ἐστι τῆς Ἰουδαίας , περὶ ἣν τὰ διαβόητα θερμὰ τυγχάνει , λίμνη δὲ κρημνοῖς παρακειμένη οὐδαμῶς ἐστιν ἐν αὐτῇ ἢ θάλασσα . Ἀλλὰ Γέργεσα , ἀφ ʼ ἧς οἱ Γεργεσαιοι , πόλις ἀρχαία περὶ τὴν νῦν καλουμένην Τιβεριάδα λίμνην , περὶ ἣν κρημνὸς παρακείμενος τῇ λίμνῃ , ἀφ ʼ οὗ δείκνυται τοὺς χοίρους ὑπὸ τῶν δαιμόνων καταβεβλῆσθαι . Comm. in Joan. tom. vi. § 24, vol. iv. p. 141. Notwithstanding this, it appears very doubtful whether there ever was a town named Gergesha near the lake. There were the Gergashites (Joseph. i. 6. 2) in former days, but their towns had been destroyed by the Israelites at their first irruption, and never, that we hear of, afterwards rebuilt (see Deuteronomy 7:1 ; Jos 24:11 ). Gerasa (now Dscherasch) lies much too far to the East. The town of Gadara, alluded to in the text, was (Joseph. B. J. iv. 7. 3) μητρόπολις τῆς Περαίας καρτερά , and (Euseb. Onomasticon) ἀντικρὺ Σκυθοπόλεως καὶ Τιβεριάδος πρὸς ἀνατολαῖς , ἐν τῷ ὄρει , οὗ πρὸς ταῖς ὑπουργίαις (Dr. Bloomfield in loc. conjectures ὑπωρείαις ) τὰ τῶν θερμῶν ὑδάτων λουτρὰ παράκειται . It was on the river Hieromax (‘Gaddara Hieromace præfluente,’ Plin. Mat 8:18 ), and sixty stadia from Tiberias (Joseph. Vit. § 65), πόλις Ἑλληνίς (Jos. Antt. xvii. 11. 4). It was destroyed in the civil wars of the Jews, and rebuilt by Pompeius (Jos. B. J. i. 7. 7), presented by Augustus to King Herod (Jos. Antt. xv. 7. 3), and after his death united to the province of Syria (Jos. B. J. ii. 6. 3). It was one of the ten cities of Decapolis. (Pliny, ibid.) Burckhardt and others believe that they have found its ruins at Omkeis, near the ridge of the chain which divides the valley of Jordan from that of the Sea of Tiberias. The territory of this city might well extend to the shore of the lake. It may be observed, that there is nothing in any of the three accounts to imply that the city was close to the scene of the miracle, or the scene of the miracle close to the herd of swine, or the herd of swine, at the time of their possession, close to the lake. Indeed the expression μακρὰν ἀπ ʼ αὐτῶν , Matthew 8:30 , implies the contrary with regard to the swine. It appears, from Burckhardt, that there are many tombs in the neighbourhood of the ruins of Gadara to this day, hewn in the rock, and thus capable of affording shelter. It may be well in fairness to observe, that Γεργεσηνῶν can hardly have arisen entirely from Origen’s conjecture, as it pervades so many MSS. and ancient (it is true, not the  most ancient) versions. We cannot say that a part of the territory of Gadara may not have been known to those who, like Matthew, were locally intimate with the shores of the lake, by this ancient and generally disused name. Still however, we are, I conceive, bound in a matter of this kind to follow the most ancient extant testimony. See further on [105] Mark, Luke. The excursus of Dr. Bloomfield, Gr. Test. edn. 9, vol. i. p. 890, though containing interesting matter confirming the fact of Gergesa having been a name actually used for a town near the lake, determines nothing as to the  reading here, which must be settled purely on objective evidence.
	 [105] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 δύο δαιμονιζόμενοι ] In Mark 5:2 , and Luke 8:27 , but  one is mentioned. All three Evangelists have some particulars peculiar to themselves; but Mark the most, and the most striking, as having evidently proceeded from an eye-witness. The ὅτι πολλοί ἐσμεν of Mark is worth noticing, in reference to the discrepancy of number in the two accounts, as perhaps connected with the mention of more than one by our Evangelist, who omits the circumstance connected with that speech.
	 χαλεποὶ λίαν ] See the terribly graphic account of Mark ( Mar 5:3-6 ). The dæmoniac was without clothes, which though related only by St. Luke ( Luk 8:27 ), yet, with remarkable consistency, appears from St. Mark’s narrative, where he is described as sitting,  clothed , and in his right mind, at Jesus’s feet, after his cure.
	 ὥστε μὴ ἰσχ  . ] Peculiar to this Gospel.