 2. ] This same miracle is related by St. Luke without any mark of definiteness, either as to time or place,  καὶ ἐγένετο  ,   ἐν τῷ εἶναι αὐτὸν ἐν μιᾷ τῶν πόλεων  .… In this instance there is, and can be, no doubt that the transactions are identical: and this may serve us as a key-note, by which the less obvious and more intricate harmonies of these two narrations may be arranged. The plain assertion of the account in the text requires that the leper should have met our Lord on His descent from the mountain, while great multitudes were following Him. The accounts in St. Luke and St. Mark require no such fixed date. This narrative therefore fixes the occurrence. I conceive it highly probable that St. Matthew was himself a hearer of the Sermon, and one of those who followed our Lord at this time. From St. Luke’s account, the miracle was performed in, or rather, perhaps, in the neighbourhood of, some city: what city, does not appear. As the leper is in all three accounts related to have  come to Jesus ( καὶ ἰδού implying it in Luke), he may have been outside the city, and have run into it to our Lord.
	 λεπρός ] The limits of a note allow of only an abridgment of the most important particulars relating to this disease. Read Leviticus 13:1-59 ; Leviticus 14:1-57 . for the Mosaic enactments respecting it, and its nature and symptoms. See also Exodus 4:6 ; Numbers 12:10 ; 2Ki 5:27 ; 2 Kings 15:5 ; 2 Chronicles 26:19 ; 2 Chronicles 26:21 . The whole ordinances relating to leprosy were symbolical and typical. The disease was  not contagious: so that the view which makes them mere sanitary regulations is out of the question. The fact of its non-contagious nature has been abundantly proved by learned men, and is evident from the Scripture itself: for the priests had continually to be in close contact with lepers, even to handling and examining them. We find Naaman, a leper, commanding the armies of Syria ( 2Ki 5:1 ); Gehazi, though a leper, is conversed with by the king of Israel ( 2Ki 8:4-5 ); and in the examination of a leper by the priest, if a man was  entirely covered with leprosy, he was to be pronounced clean ( Lev 13:12-13 ). The leper was not shut out from the synagogue (Lightfoot, vol. i. p. 513), nor from the Christian churches (Suicer, Thesaurus Patrum, under λεπρός ). Besides, the analogy of the other uncleannesses under the Mosaic law, e.g. having touched the dead, having an issue, which are joined with leprosy ( Num 5:2 ), shews that sanitary caution was not the motive of these ceremonial enactments, but a far deeper reason. This disease was specially selected, as being the most loathsome and incurable of all, to represent the effect of the defilement of sin upon the once pure and holy body of man. “Leprosy was, indeed, nothing short of a living death, a poisoning of the springs, a corrupting of all the humours, of life; a dissolution, little by little, of the whole body, so that one limb after another actually decayed and fell away.” (Trench on the Miracles, p. 213.) See Numbers 12:12 . The leper was the type of one dead in sin: the same emblems are used in his misery as those of mourning for the dead: the same means of cleansing as for uncleanness through connexion with death, and which were never used except on these two occasions. Compare Numbers 19:6 ; Numbers 19:13 ; Numbers 19:18 , with Leviticus 14:4-7 . All this exclusion and mournful separation imported the perpetual exclusion of the abominable and polluted from the true city of God, as declared Revelation 21:27 , οὐ μὴ εἰσέλθῃ εἰς αὐτὴν πᾶν κοινὸν καὶ ποιῶν βδέλυγμα καὶ ψεῦδος . And David, when after his deadly sin he utters his prayer of penitence, ‘Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean,’ Psalms 51:7 , doubtless saw in his own utter spiritual uncleanness, that of which the ceremonial uncleanness that was purged with hyssop was the type. Thus in the above-cited instances we find leprosy inflicted as the punishment of rebellion, lying, and presumption. ‘I put the plague of leprosy in an house’ ( Lev 14:34 ), ‘Remember what the Lord thy God did to Miriam’ ( Deu 24:9 ), and other passages, point out this plague as a peculiar infliction from God. “The Jews termed it ‘the finger of God,’ and emphatically ‘the stroke.’ They said that it attacked first a man’s house; and if he did not turn, his clothing; and then, if he persisted in sin, himself. So too, they said, that a man’s true repentance was the one condition of his leprosy leaving him.” Trench, p. 216. The Jews, from the prophecy Isaiah 53:4 , had a tradition that the Messiah should be a leper.
	 προσεκύνει ] πεσὼν ἐπὶ πρόσωπον , Luke 5:12 ( γονυπετῶν , Mar 1:40 ). These differences of expression are important. See beginning of note on this verse.
	 κύριε ] Not here merely a title of respect, but an expression of faith in Jesus as the Messiah. “This is the  right utterance of κύριε , which will never be made in vain.” Stier. When Miriam was a leper, ἐβόησε Μωυσῆς πρὸς κύριον , λέγων Ὁ θεός , δέομαί σου , ἴασαι αὐτήν , Numbers 12:13 .