 28 .]  so also the Christ (not χριστός , anarthrous, which would seem to point to some one contrasted with, or at all events merely compared with, οἱ ἄνθρωποι : but  ὁ χριστός , that man who was God’s Christ  the Christ , it being plain and palpable to all that ὁ χριστός belongs to the category οἱ ἄνθρωποι . Cf. the anarthrous χριστός in Hebrews 9:24 , where the case is different)  once (for all)  having been offered (not = ‘having offered himself:’ for it might well have been προσενέγκας ἑαυτόν . The form and the meaning are both passive; and the reason of this is I believe to be found in the fact that it is in this verse not so much the agency, as the destiny of Christ, that is spoken of; that which, though the expression itself is avoided with regard to Him, ἀπόκειται for Him as for us. And this consideration removes from us all necessity of supplying an agent for this προσενεχθείς , as ὑφ ʼ ἑαυτοῦ (Chrys.) or ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ (al.), which as Delitzsch remarks would not be correct; Christ might be δοθείς or παραδοθεὶς ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ , but not προσενεχθείς . Nor would ὑπὸ τῶν ἀνθρώπων express the right agency; for it was no conscious act of mankind, willing its sin to be atoned for, that offered up Christ: but if an agent must be supplied, it would be = διὰ πνεύματος αἰωνίου as in Hebrews 9:14 , the divine submission of our Lord subjecting Himself to the external force which was exerted against Him, that force being in some sort the agent, but not without His own will co-operating. It is hardly necessary to mention, that the very terms of the context here necessitate the understanding this προσενεχθῆναι of the death of Christ, not as in Hebrews 9:25 , where the context, as there insisted, confines it to His offering of Himself to God in the heavenly sanctuary)  to bear the sins of many (a plain allusion to ref. Isa., αὐτὸς ἁμαρτίας πολλῶν ἀνήνεγκεν : and here, as there, importing the “  bearing ,” “  carrying on Himself ,” Heb. נָשָׂא , cf. also in Leviticus 24:15 , “Whosoever curseth his God shall  bear ( λήψεται LXX) his sin:” Numbers 5:31 , “the woman shall  bear ( λήψεται ) her iniquity:” Numbers 14:34 , “each day for a year shall ye bear ( λήψεσθε ) your iniquities, even forty years.” And so in Numbers 14:33 , “shall bear your whoredoms,” where the LXX have ἀνοίσουσιν . The Heb. word  may also have the sense of  auferre , which many (e. g. Luth., Schlicht., Grot., Limb., Bl., Lünem., Hofm.) have wished to give it here: but not so ἀνενέγκαι . The sense given by Syr., “sacrificed” (“immolavit”) the sins of many,” and defended also by Chrys., Œc., Thl., would introduce a new and irrelevant idea, and cannot be maintained; so Michaelis also, taking however ἁμαρτία for a sin-offering, which it never means. Besides which, it is here  πολλῶν ἁμαρτίας , which would at all events preclude that meaning. On  πολλῶν , and its supposed contrast to πάντων (Chrys., διὰ τί πολλῶν εἶπε , καὶ μὴ πάντων ; ἐπειδὴ μὴ πάντες ἐπίστευσαν : so Œc., Thl., and Thdrt., drawing from it the inference that Christ only διέλυσε the sin of believers), see above, ch. Hebrews 2:10 , and Schlichting’s true distinction, “Multi non opponuntur h. l. omnibus, sed tantum paucis.”  πολλῶν is, as Del. says, the qualitative designation of πάντων :  all men are  many in number. There is reference in it to ἅπαξ : He was offered, One, for all (“Multos uni opponit,” Calv.): and once for all),  shall appear (  ὀφθήσεται , the usual verb of the appearances of Christ after his resurrection) a  second time (reff.)  without (separate from)  sin (in order to understand this, we must remember what it is that the Writer is proving: viz. that Christ’s death, the repetition of which would be the condition of a repeated offering of Himself in heaven to God, admits of no such repetition. It was a death in which He bore the sins of many but He shall appear the second time χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας , with no sin upon Him, and consequently the whole work of atonement done and accomplished by that first offering. So that there is no need of any far-fetched explanation, either of ἁμαρτίας , or of χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας . We need not say with Storr, that it is without  an offering for sin: nor with Klee, that it is without  punishment of sin: nor with Bleek, without  meeting with sin (so Thdrt., οὐκέτι τῆς ἁμαρτίας κρατούσης , ἀντὶ τοῦ χώραν οὐκέτι ἐχούσης κατὰ τῶν ἀνθρώπων τῆς ἁμαρτίας : and an explanation mentioned by Œc., ἐκ δευτέρου ἐρχόμενος οὐχ ἥξει πάλιν διὰ τὰς ὑμῶν ἁμαρτίας ὀφείλων ἀποθανεῖν ): nor with Ebr., that He will have no more  concern with sin: nor, with De Wette, without  contact with sin: nor, with Lünem., free from all  reference to sin. As distinguished from all these, we take, with Delitzsch and Hofmann, the simple sense of the words, and apply it to the argument in hand. At His first appearance in the world He came  with sin , not  in him, but  on him: He was  made to be ἁμαρτία : but this sin has been once for all taken away by his bearing it as our Sacrifice: and at his second appearance He shall appear  without . having done with, separate from,  sin . Theodore of Mopsuestia, though he has not exactly and clearly struck the right note, is yet very near it, when he says, νῦν , φησίν , ὀφθείς , ὅτε τὴν ἁμαρτίαν κρατεῖν συνέβαινεν , ἀναγκαίως τὸν διὰ τὴν ἁμαρτίαν κρατοῦντα θάνατον ἐδέξατο , τότε δὲ τῆς ἁμαρτίας ὡς εἰκὸς λελυμένης , ἀνάγκη καὶ αὐτὸν ἀπαθῶς ὀφθῆναι · τὸ γὰρ χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας τοῦτο λέγει , ὅτι μὴ κρατούσης ἔτι τῆς ἁμαρτίας οὕτω καὶ αὐτὸς ἔξω παντὸς ἀνθρωπίνου πάθους ὀφθήσεται τότε )  to them that wait for Him (see reff.)  unto (to bring in: for the purpose of)  salvation (these last words belong to ὀφθήσεται , not, as Primas., Faber Stap., Camer., Wolf, al., to τοῖς ἀπεκδεχομένοις . This latter notion has led to the curious insertion of the words διὰ πίστεως in A al. The object of Christ’s second appearance shall be, to bring in salvation: this is the bright and Christian side of His appearing, the side which we, who ought to be ἀπεκδεχόμενοι αὐτόν , should ever look upon. As Chrys. beautifully says, πῶς ὀφθήσεται ; κολάζων , φησίν , ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ εἶπε τοῦτο , ἀλλὰ τὸ φαιδρόν ).