 8 .]  the Holy Spirit signifying (by the typical arrangement of the sanctuary, excluding all from it except the high priest once a year:  δηλοῦντος is not, as Semler, to be referred back to the prophecy of Jeremiah above quoted. We often have the verb in this meaning of ‘  signifying by a representation :’ so in ch. Hebrews 12:27 , and Jos. Antt. iii. 7. 1, περιτίθεται τὸν μαναχασὴν λεγόμενον , βούλεται δὲ συνακτῆρα μὲν δηλοῦν , διάζωμα δ ʼ ἐστὶ κ . τ . λ .: ib. 7. 7, δηλοῖ δὲ καὶ τὸν ἥλιον κ . τὴν σελήνην τῶν σαρδονύχων ἑκάτερος : cf. also viii. 6. 2. See Libanius and Hermogenes in Wetst. In the latter, δηλοῦν , “subindicare,” is opposed to φανερῶς λέγειν )  this (which follows),  that the way to (‘  of :’ so in reff., see Kühner ii. p. 176, Anm. 4: but not in τὴν εὐθὺς Ἄργους κἀπιδαυρίας ὁδόν , Eur. Hipp. 1197, where the genitives are governed by εὐθύς : cf. εὐθὺς σφῶν … πλεῖν , Thuc. viii. 96, and Lob. on Phryn. p. 144)  the holy places (i. e. the true holy places in heaven: for it is of antitype, not of type, that the Writer is here speaking. Hence there is no danger of mistaking  τὰ ἅγια here for the outer tabernacle: it is as in reff., and τὸ ἅγιον in Eze 41:23 and Leviticus 16:16-17 ; Leviticus 16:20 ; Leviticus 16:23 ; Leviticus 16:27 ,  the holy place κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν . Syr. has a curious rendering “the way of the holy ones” (masc.))  has not yet been manifested (not,  had not: the present form is maintained throughout: see below)  while the first tabernacle is as yet standing (  what first tabernacle? That which was first in  time , or  first in order of space? Clearly the latter, which has already been used in Hebrews 9:6 ; no reason can be given for changing the sense to the temporal one, especially as the Writer is regarding the whole as present, and drawing no contrast as to time. In fact, if time be regarded, the  heavenly , not the earthly tabernacle is the first. Still less, with Peirce and Sykes, can we understand the tabernacle in the wilderness, as distinguished from the temple: which would yield no assignable sense. Bleek supposes that  ἡ πρώτη σκηνή , thus understood, symbolizes the whole Jewish Levitical worship which took place in the first or outer tabernacle: Ebrard, that the whole, exterior and interior tabernacle, is symbolical, the exterior of relative, the interior of absolute holiness: and he sees an equality of ratios which he thus expresses πρώτη σκηνή : ἅγια ἁγίων :: ( πρώτη σκηνή + ἅγια ἁγίων ): Christ. But both of these ideas are well refuted by Delitzsch, who reminds us that the first as well as the second tabernacle was symbolical of heavenly things. Thl. says, ἄρχεται λοιπὸν ἀναγωγικώτερον θεωρεῖν τὰ περὶ τῶν σκηνῶν , καὶ φησίν , ὅτι ἐπειδὴ τὰ μὲν ἅγια τῶν ἁγίων ἄβατα ἦν τοῖς ἄλλοις ἱερεῦσιν , ἂ τύπος εἰσὶ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , ἡ μέντοι πρώτη σκηνή , τουτέστιν ἡ μετὰ τὸ ἔξωθεν θυσιαστήριον τὸ χαλκοῦν πρώτη εὐθὺς οὖσα , βάσιμος ἦν αὐτοῖς διὰ παντός , σύμβολον οὖσα τῆς κατὰ νόμον λατρείας , ἑδηλοῦτο συμβολικῶς , ὅτι ἕως οὗ ἵσταται ἡ σκηνὴ αὕτη , τουτέστιν ἕως οὗ κρατεῖ ὁ νόμος καὶ αἱ κατ ʼ αὐτὸν λατρεῖαι τελοῦνται , οὐκ ἔστι βάσιμος ἡ τῶν ἁγίων ὁδός , τουτέστιν ἡ εἰς τὸν οὐρανὸν εἴσοδος , τοῖς τὰς τοιαύτας λατρείας ἐπιτελοῦσιν , ἀλλὰ τούτοις μὲν ἀφανής ἐστι καὶ ἀποκέκλεισται , μόνῳ δὲ τῷ ἑνὶ ἀρχιερεῖ χριστῷ ἀφωρίσθη ἡ ὁδὸς αὕτη . The phrase  στάσιν ἔχειν , besides ref. Polyb., occurs in Plut. Symp. viii. 8, εἰ νέα πάθη τότε πρῶτον ἔσχεν ἐν τῇ φύσει γένεσιν κ . στάσιν : and in Dion. Hal. vi. p. 415, μέχρις ἂν οὐρανός τε καὶ γῆ τὴν αὐτὴν στάσιν ἔχωσι . See other examples in Kypke. On the sense, cf. Jos.Antt. iii. 7. 7, τὴν δὲ τρίτην μοῖραν ( τῆς σκηνῆς ) μόνῳ περιέγραψε τῷ θεῷ διὰ τὸ καὶ τὸν οὐρανὸν ἀνεπίβατον εἶναι τοῖς ἀνθρώποις ),