 24 .] He now reasserts, under the fuller light which has since been cast upon it, that which was enounced in Hebrews 9:11-12 , and by it shews at what the word ἐπουράνια above pointed. In fact, as Delitzsch observes, the proposition of Hebrews 9:11-12 , has been in course of elucidation ever since: in Heb 9:13-14 he explained διὰ τοῦ ἰδίου αἵματος , in Heb 9:15-23 the ἀρχιερεὺς τῶν μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν , and now the εἰσῆλθεν ἐφάπαξ εἰς τὰ  ἅγια .  For (resumption of τὰ ἐπουράνια above)  not into holy places made with hands (such as those into which the Jewish high priests entered: see above, Hebrews 9:11 ; and the two expressions Acts 7:48 ; Act 17:24 )  did Christ enter, counterfeits of the true (  holy places ) (  ἀντίτυπος , correspondent to the τύπος ; either, as in this case,  copies from a pattern, viz. the τύπος shewn in the mount, however understood, ch. Hebrews 8:5 , also Romans 5:14 , ὅς ( Ἀδάμ ) ἐστι τύπος τοῦ μέλλοντος , or the  reality corresponding to a previously shewn figure ( τύπος ), as baptism in ref. 1 Pet., where Baptism is the ἀντίτυπον to the flood of Noah: and which latter is our more usual English sense of antitype. The ancients mostly take ἀντίτυπα here as = τύπους . So Chrys., Thl. ( τουτέστι , τοῦ οὐρανοῦ ἦσαν τύπος ), not Œc., Jac. Cappellus, Schlicht., al. A copious collection of the senses and examples of ἀντίτυπος may be found in Suicer, sub voce. The Sacraments were often designated by this epithet, as representing to us Christ: and indeed Baptism in both the senses here given: thus Cæsarius, Quæst. Ult. p. 208 (cited by Suicer, but not to be found in Edn. Migne), calls Baptism ἀντίτυπον of Circumcision; while Cyril-jerus., Catech. xx. 6, p. 313, calls it τῶν τοῦ χριστοῦ παθημάτων ἀντίτυπον . Several of the Fathers speak of the Eucharistic elements as ἀντίτυπα τοῦ ἁγίου σώματος καὶ αἵματος τοῦ χριστοῦ . The  true , genuine  holy places are those in heaven, where God’s presence is manifested. See below),  but into the heaven itself (  αὐτὸς ὁ οὐρανός , none of the οὐρανοί , all of which the Lord διελήλυθεν , ch. Hebrews 4:14 , but the very holiest place, where God peculiarly reveals Himself, and which is uncreated. Delitzsch quotes from Seb. Schmidt, “Cœlum in quod Christus ingressus est, non est ipsum cœlum creatum, quodcunque fuerit, sed est cœlum in quo Deus est etiam quando cœlumcreatum nullum est, ipsa gloria divina.” Hence what follows),  now (in the present dispensation: almost = henceforth. It is an anticipation of the οὐδ ʼ ἵνα πολλάκις κ . τ . λ . of the next verse)  to be manifested (first, as to the  tense . Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 368, says that the aorist forbids the enduring “henceforth” sense of νῦν . But there can be no doubt that he is wrong. The infinitive of  purpose is often expressed in the aorist when duration is distinctly implied, but, I believe, only in those cases where the commencement of the fulfilment of the purpose is contemporaneous with the act narrated whereby the purpose is to be served: so εἰσῆλθεν τοῦ μεῖναι σὺν αὐτοῖς , Luke 24:29 ; ὅν κατέστησεν ὁ κύριος ἐπὶ τῆς οἰκετείας αὐτοῦ , τοῦ δοῦναι αὐτοῖς τὴν τροφήν , Matthew 24:45 , in these cases the μένειν and the διδόναι , as here the ἐμφανίζεσθαι , beginning with the act related. It is obvious that these remarks apply only to cases where an enduring course of action is described: in other cases the aorist would be accounted for in other ways.
	Next, as to the peculiar propriety of the word ἐμφανισθῆναι . It will be seen by reff., that it is one found mostly in St. Luke (Acts). It is there principally in the sense of  making manifest , giving information: in ref. Matt. it is used of the bodies of the saints appearing to many: and in reff. John, of Jesus manifesting himself to his people. But the key-text to the understanding of it here is ref. Exod. ὀφθῆναι , not ἐμφανισθῆναι , is the word commonly used for the divine appearances: but Moses desired to advance beyond the mere ὄψις of God, and prayed ἐμφάνισόν μοι σεαυτόν . This, which might not be granted to Moses (nor to any man, cf. Lev 16:13 ) this open sight of God, is that which takes place between the Father and the Son. “None knoweth the Son but the Father.” There is no veil hiding the Father’s face from the Son: so completely does this ἐμφανισμός take place, that he is the perfect image of the Father: “He that hath seen me hath seen the Father:” “No man knoweth the Father but the Son and he to whom the Son will reveal Him.” The Commentators refer to a treatise of Deyling’s, “Jesu Christi ἐμφανισμός in conspectu Dei,” Lips. 1722, which I have not seen)  to (before)  the face of God (see Revelation 22:4 , where it is said that the servants of God shall see τὸ πρόσωπον αὐτοῦ . Commonly (see reff.) it is τὸ πρόσωπον ( τοῦ ) κυρίου . See Stier here)  for us (this is the intent of His entrance into the heavenly sanctuary, to appear and to plead for us: see ch. Hebrews 7:25 . “He brings before the face of God no offering which has exhausted itself and, as only sufficing for a time, needs renewal; but He himself is in person our offering and by virtue of the eternal Spirit, i. e. of the imperishable life of His person, now for ever freed from death, our eternally present offering before God.” Delitzsch):