 26 .]  since (in that case)  it were necessary (no ἄν , which we should naturally expect: but the indicative is in fact dependent on and included in the hypothesis just made: “posito, eum ita cœlum intrasse, ut sæpius seipsum offerret, necesse erat …:” see 1 Corinthians 5:10 ; 1 Corinthians 7:14 ; Romans 11:6 ; Winer, edn. 6, § 41,  a . 2)  that He should oftentimes suffer (not, “  have suffered ” as E. V.; by ἔδει we are already carried back to a time antecedent to the supposed repeated acts indicated by παθεῖν , and therefore do not need another carrying back in time. Notice, as against the Commentators mentioned above under προσφέρειν ἑαυτόν , and others, that this  παθεῖν is here not equivalent to that προσφέρειν , but is emphatically placed as a new necessity, involved in that; the πολλάκις being common to both: the πολλάκις προσφέρειν necessitated the πολλάκις παθεῖν . If Christ’s view in entering heaven was, to offer, present, himself often to God, then, as a condition of that frequent presentation, there would be an antecedent necessity for Him to  suffer often: because that self-presentation is in fact the bringing in before God of the Blood of that his suffering: and if the one was to be renewed, so must the other be likewise. So that the meaning is not, that Christ must again and again have descended on earth and died. To such a descent there is no allusion, as there is none to a renewed entrance into the ἅγια in heaven. That entrance Christ has effected once for all: this lies, as a ‘fait accompli,’ at the ground of the hypothesis. But the rejected hypothesis is, that  once being in the celestial ἅγια , Christ intended to renew often his oblation of Himself. And in that case, says our Writer, it would be necessary that he should often suffer, often die: because each such oblation necessitated as its condition a corresponding παθεῖν . When, as in the case of the Jewish high priests, the αἷμα was ἀλλότριον , such repetition was possible (see Lev 16:14-15 ): but not so, when the blood was τὸ ἴδιον . Thus, in the main, Delitzsch; and Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 311. Cf. also Thl., ἐπεί , εἰ ἔμελλε , φησίν , πολλάκις προσενεγκεῖν , ἔδει αὐτὸν καὶ πολλάκις ἀποθανεῖν , διὰ τὸ τὸ ἴδιον αἷμα ὀφείλειν προσάγειν )  since the foundation of the world (why this addition? Not, as often understood, e. g. by Bengel (“pro peccatis ab initio mundi commissis”), Böhme, Thol., Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., so as to bring under the merits of the Suffering, all the sins of mankind past as well as future, which thought, arising from the erroneous view of a frequently-repeated  entrance into heaven being supposed, has nothing whatever to do with the argument: but, inasmuch as the theatre of Christ’s sufferings is of necessity this present world, pointing out that those supposed repeated sufferings must necessarily in that case take place within the temporal limits indicated by ἀπὸ καταβολῆς κόσμου : that such sufferings would be spread over the space of time from the καταβολὴ κόσμου till He entered into the presence of God, each oblation of Himself there being the sequel of, and conditioned by, one such παθεῖν since the world has been. I may mention, that no parenthesis is here admissible. The words  ἐπεὶ  .…   κόσμου are strictly and indispensably a link in the argument):  now, however (  νυνί , not temporal, but = ‘ut res se habent’),  once (for all, without need of renewal)  at (as close upon, put in immediate contiguity with, ‘sub finem mundi:’ see Winer, edn. 6, § 48, c: superimposed, as an event, on its period as a substratum: see above on Heb 9:15 )  the end of the ages of time (i. e. when the whole period above indicated by ἀπὸ καταβολῆς κόσμου is gathered up and brought to an end. Between the first and second coming of Christ, the N. T. Scriptures know of no intermediate interposition of the divine dealings with men: in Him we are τέλειοι , and at His appearing, our αἰῶνες had their συντέλεια . All these centuries which have been since, are merely the lengthening out of the time in the mercy of God. The first Christians universally spoke of the second coming of the Lord as close at hand, as indeed it ever was and is: the σιτιστά are τεθυμένα , and all is ready: but the long-suffering of God waits while the guests are being gathered in: or, in the other view of His coming, while the ark is a preparing)  hath He been manifested (viz. at His first coming in our flesh: the φανέρωσις ἐν σαρκί , spoken of 1 Timothy 3:16 ; 1 Peter 1:20 . On the other meaning given, see below)  for the putting away of sin (on  ἀθέτησις see ch. Heb 7:18 note: putting away, i. e. abrogation, “quæ fit, quum peccato omnis vis et potestas adimitur. Quod dupliciter factum est: tum quatenus nullam vim habet ad homines condemnandos: tum quatenus vim non habet ad eosdem sub jugo suo retinendos. Utrumque enim ut fieret, Christus apparuit: tum ut homines a peccatorum reatu et pœnis, tum ut eosdem ab ipsis peccatis liberaret.” Schlichting)  by means of His sacrifice (i. e. in the sense, ‘the sacrifice of Himself,’ but not here so expressed: had the Writer intended αὑτοῦ to express ἑαυτοῦ , he would have so written it, as in Hebrews 9:25 .
	By very many expositors, the construction of this verse is differently taken. Some understand  πεφανέρωται of His appearance before God the ἐμφανισμός above mentioned. So Jac. Cappellus, Grot., Heinrichs, Schulz, al. But this cannot be for a moment maintained. The analogy of the reff. is wholly against it, and so is the ἐκ δευτέρου ὀφθήσεται below: not to mention that had it been so, we should certainly have had ἐνώπιον τοῦ θεοῦ , or some such qualification, added. But more, keeping the right sense of πεφανέρωται , join διὰ τῆς θυσίας αὐτοῦ with it. So a gloss in Œc.: διὰ τῆς θυσίας πεφανέρωται , τουτέστιν , μετὰ τῆς σαρκὸς ἐν τῷ κόσμῳ : so Böhme, Tholuck, al. But none of the passages whereby this is defended, is applicable: neither Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 9:14 ( διὰ ), nor Rom 2:27 ; 1 John 5:6 ; and for this reason, that θυσία , as Delitzsch observes, is not a continuing state, nor an accompanying circumstance, but an  act , by which ἀθέτησις ἁμαρτίας , the scope of the whole, is brought about).