 10 .]  only (consisting) in (supply οὖσαι or προσφερόμεναι , and understand ἐπί as pointing out the ground whereupon, the condition wherein, the offering of the δῶρά τε καὶ θυσίαι subsisted. Some of the ancient Commentators joined ἐπί with τελειῶσαι , “not able to perfect.… in his conscience, only as regards meats and” … So Œc., αἱ λατρεῖαι , φησίν , οὐκ ἴσχυον ψυχικῶς τινα τελειῶσαι , ἀλλὰ περὶ τὴν σάρκα εἶχον τὴν ἐνέργειαν κ . τὰ σαρκικὰ κ . τ . λ . And so recently Ebrard. But this is not the fact, as it would be here stated. The gifts and offerings, e. g. those of the day of atonement, had far other  reference than merely to meats and drinks and washings: nay, these were parables in reference to higher things. Another set joined it with λατρεύοντα , “him who serveth under condition of meats” &c. But this is questionable as to usage, and would make a very lame and dragging sentence. Thl. apparently joins ἐπί with ἐπικείμενα below: μόνον , φησίν , ἐπικείμενα τοῖς τότε ἀνθρώποις κ . διαταττόμενα περὶ βρωμάτων κ . πομάτων . Others, as Grot., Bengel, Bleek, De Wette, give ἐπί the meaning “  together with ,” which is hardly either philologically or contextually suitable. If  δικαιώμασιν be read, then on this view it would be more likely ἄλλοις δικαιώμασιν : if  δικαιώματα , it could hardly be said that the meats and drinks and washings were δικαιώματα in the same sense as the δῶρά τε κ . θυσίαι , seeing that they were only their conditions, not their cognates)  meats and drinks and divers washings (probably the Writer has in mind both the legal and the Talmudical conditions imposed upon the λατρεύοντες . See the very parallel place, Colossians 2:16 . The law prescribed much about eating: nothing about drinking, except some general rules of uncleanness, such as Leviticus 11:34 , and in peculiar cases, such as the prohibition of wine to the Nazarite, Numbers 6:3 , and to the priests when on actual service in the tabernacle, Leviticus 10:9 . But subsequent circumstances and usage added other observances and precedents: as e. g. Daniel 1:8 ; Haggai 2:13 . See Matthew 23:24 ; Romans 14:21 . So there is no necessity to suppose that the allusion is to the feasts after sacrifice (ch. Heb 13:10 ), or to the passover. The  διάφοροι βαπτισμοί  may refer to all the various washings ordained by the law, Exodus 29:4 ; Leviticus 11:25 ; Leviticus 11:28 ; Leviticus 11:32 ; Leviticus 11:40 ; Leviticus 14:6-9 ; Leviticus 15:5 ff; Leviticus 16:4 ; Leviticus 16:24 ff.: Numbers 8:7 ; Numbers 19:17 ff. al. But it seems likely that not the sacerdotal washings, so much as those prescribed to or observed by the people, are mainly in view: such as those mentioned in Mar 7:4 ),  ordinances of (the) flesh (i. e. belonging to flesh, as opposed to spirit. They regarded material things, gifts, sacrifices, meats, drinks, washings, which from their very nature could only affect the outward, not the inward man. Of course  δικαιώματα σαρκός is in apposition with δῶρά τε καὶ θυσίαι . The ordinary reading, καὶ δικαιώμασιν , has, besides manuscript authority, these two objections against it: 1. seeing that the things mentioned were themselves δικαιώματα σαρκός , we should rather require (see above) καὶ ἄλλοις δικαιώμασιν : 2. we should have δυνάμεν  αι followed by ἐπικείμεν  α , which, however possibly allowable, would certainly be very harsh),  imposed (cf. Il. ζ . 458, κρατερὴ ἐπικείσετ ʼ ἀνάγκη : also Acts 15:10 ; Acts 15:28 , which is a remarkable parallel. ἐπεὶ δὲ ζυγὸς ἦν ὁ νόμος βαρύς , εἰκότως εἶπε τὸ ἐπικείμενα . Thl.: who then, as Œc., quotes Act 15:10 )  until the season of rectification (i. e. when all these things would be better arranged, the substance put where the shadow was before, the sufficient grace where the insufficient type.  διόρθωσις , cf. ref. and Aristot. Polit. 8: τῶν πιπτόντων οἰκοδομημάτων κ . ὁδῶν σωτηρία καὶ διόρθωσις . See many more instances of its use in Lobeck’s note on Phryn. p. 250 f. The expression probably refers to ch. Hebrews 8:8 f., the time when God would make with His people a better covenant. I need hardly remind the reader who has kept pace with what has been said on τὸν καιρὸν τὸν ἐνεστηκότα above, that this  καιρὸς διορθώσεως is one and the same with that. Those who give another meaning there, yet agree in referring these words to Christian times).