 15 .] See summary above at Hebrews 9:13 . This pre-eminent spiritual virtue of His redeeming blood constitutes his fitness to be Mediator of the new covenant, the main blessing of which, forgiveness, extends even back over the insufficient former one, and ensures the inheritance to the called.  And on this account (  διὰ τοῦτο is not to be taken as Schlichting, Böhme, and Bleek, prospectively, responded to by the ὅπως below: for in this case we should have an entire break between the last verse and this. It is true, as Del. observes, that a new side of Christ’s work is here introduced: but it is one which stands in the closest relation to that which has preceded. Rather should we refer διὰ τοῦτο backwards, and understand it,  on account of this virtue of His blood : or if it seem better, extend its reference further back still, over Hebrews 9:11-14 ,  on account of the great work which He hath accomplished by his death : = ‘because these things are so’)  is He mediator of a new covenant (see ch. Heb 8:6 and note. There is a stress on  καινῆς , but not so strong an one as Bl. and Del. suppose: Del. would explain, therefore is the covenant, of which He is the mediator, a new one. But surely  this predicate does not carry the logical weight of the sentence, but rather both the words,  διαθήκης καινῆς , the latter of which is taken up and responded to by πρώτῃ below, and the former by ὅπου γὰρ διαθήκη in the next verse. For its meaning here, see below),  in order that, death having taken place, for the propitiation of the transgressions under the first covenant, they who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance (first, the object of the new covenant is an eternal  inheritance , cf. τὰ μέλλοντα ἀγαθά , Hebrews 9:11 , ἡ οἰκουμένη ἡ μέλλουσα , ch. Hebrews 2:5 ; and therefore the idea of  inheritance having once come in, gives to διαθήκη that shade of meaning which is deepened and insisted on below, viz. that of a TESTAMENTARY covenant or arrangement. Then, going backwards from κληρονομίαν , ἐπαγγελίαν λάβωσιν , an expression (see reff.) used also by St. Luke, is to be taken in the sense of receiving the fulfilment of a promise, not merely of having the promise granted. Then, the  κεκλημένοι are the κλήσεως ἐπουρανίου μέτοχοι of ch. Hebrews 3:1 ; cf. also ἡ ἄνω κλῆσις of Philippians 3:14 ; and reff. here. Calvin well remarks, “Loquitur de vocatis, ut Judæos, qui hujus vocationis erant participes, magis officiat.” This end, of the called being put in possession of the promise of the eternal inheritance, is to be attained, θανάτου γενομένου εἰς ἀπολύτρωσιν τῶν ἐπὶ τῇ πρώτῃ διαθήκῃ παραβάσεων . Without this death, it could not be attained. The full reason of this, that death must take place first, is presently gone into: it is with the concluding words of this clause that we are at present concerned. These  transgressions under the first covenant are in fact those of all mankind. Israel was a pattern of God’s dealings with all: and His revelation of His will to Israel extended categorically to all mankind. Against this will, primævally revealed, revealed to the patriarchs, revealed in the law, our parents and the antediluvian earth, the sons of Noah and the postdiluvian earth, Israel itself as a people, had deeply and repeatedly transgressed: and before a new inheritance by testament could come in, there must be a propitiation of all these former transgressions. All the propitiatory sacrifices, so called, of the former covenant, were but imperfect and typical: but as this is to be a real inheritance, so there must be real and actual propitiation. Cf. the remarkable parallel, Acts 13:39 , ἀπὸ πάντων ὧν οὐκ ἠδυνήθητε ἐν νόμῳ Μωυσέως δικαιωθῆναι , ἐν τούτῳ πᾶς ὁ πιστεύων δικαιοῦται . See more below. This is fully and strikingly treated by Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1. 300: see also Delitzsch’s note here.
	It is right to mention that some versions and expositors take κεκλημένοι τῆς αἰωνίου κληρονομίας together. Thus Syr., Faber Stap., Chr. F. Schmid, al., and recently, Tholuck and Ebrard (this latter, apparently, missing the sense of ἐπαγγελίαν λαβεῖν ): which arrangement would perhaps be grammatically justifiable, but according neither to our Writer’s usage, nor to the requirements of the sentence. The severing, of a genitive in government from its governing noun is not uncommon in our Epistle, and frequently found in other governments also, in St. Luke: and, the stress being here on  inheritance , as presently taken up in the next verse, it is not probable that it would be introduced merely in the most insignificant place possible, as a mere adjunct to the description of the  subject of the sentence. So that on all grounds the other and more usually accepted construction is to be preferred. The  ἐπί  with dat . τῇ πρώτῃ διαθήκῃ , in the sense of ‘  under ,’ ‘  during the time of ,’ the first διαθ ., easily gets its meaning from the primitive sense of close superposition. The things happening ἐπὶ τῇ πρώτῃ διαθήκῃ , had it for their substratum, were superimposed on it, as it were. See ch. Hebrews 10:28 ; and Winer, edn. 6, § 48. c).