 4 .]  having (on  ἔχουσα , see below)  a golden censer (or,  altar of incense ) (“Maxima totius epistolæ difficultas in verbis hisce consistit, atque hic locus fortasse præter cæteros dubium apud veteres reddidit hujus epistolæ auctoritatem.” Calmet, in Tholuck. The first difficulty is respecting the meaning of the word  θυμιατήριον . And here the etymology gives us no help. For the word is a neut. adj., importing any thing having regard to or employed in the burning of incense. It may therefore mean either an  altar upon which , or a  censer in which , incense was burnt. The latter meaning is found in Demosth. p. 617. 3, ἐκπώματα δὲ ἢ θυμιατήρια , ἂν μὲν ὑπερβάλλῃ τῷ πλήθει κ . τ . λ .: Thuc. vi. 46, ἐπέδειξαν τὰ ἀναθήματα , φιάλας τε καὶ οἰνοχόας καὶ θυμιατήρια κ . τ . λ .: and so LXX, reff.:Josephus, Antt. iv. 2. 4, κομίζων ἕκαστος θυμιατήριον οἴκοθεν σὺν θυμιάμασι . The former, in Herod. iv. 162, Εὐέλθων , ὃς τὸ ἐν Δελφοῖσι θυμιητήριον ἐὸν ἀξιοθέητον ἀνέθηκεν : Ælian, V. H. xii. 51, καὶ κατακλιθέντι ( Μενεκράτει ) θυμιατήριον παρέθηκε ( Φιλίππος ), καὶ ἐθυμιᾶτο αὐτῷ . It is true, the LXX have generally called the altar of incense τὸ θυσιαστήριον θυμιάματος or - των , cf. Exodus 30:1 ; Exodus 30:27 ; Lev 4:7 ; 1 Chronicles 6:49 ; 1 Chronicles 28:18 ; 2 Chronicles 26:16 ; 2 Chronicles 26:19 ; or τὸ θυσιαστήριον τὸ χρυσοῦν , Exodus 40:5 ; Exodus 40:24 (Exodus 40:26 ; Num 4:11; Numbers 3 Kings 7:48; 2 Chronicles 4:19 ; or τὸ θυσιαστ . τὸ ἀπέναντι κυρίου , Leviticus 16:12 ; Leviticus 16:18 ; or merely τὸ θυσιαστήριον , where the context shews which altar is meant, Leviticus 16:20 ; Numbers 4:13-14 ; Deuteronomy 33:10 . Deuteronomy 33:3 Kin gs 6:20 an d also θυσιαστήρια , where both the altars, of burnt-offering and of incense, are intended, Exodus 31:8 ; Numbers 3:31 . But later, the more appropriate word θυμιατήριον became the usual Hellenistic name for the altar of incense. So Philo, Quis Rer. Div. Hær. § 46, vol. i. p. 504, τριῶν ὄντων ἐν τοῖς ἁγίοις σκευῶν , λυχνίας , τραπέζης , θυμιατηρίου , τὸ μὲν θυμιατήριον κ . τ . λ .: and id. Vita Mos. iii. § 7, vol. ii. p. 149, ἐδημιουργεῖτο καὶ σκεύη ἱερά , κιβωτός , λυχνία , τράπεζα , θυμιατήριον , βωμός . And Josephus, Antt. iii. 6. 8; iii. 8. 2, 3: B. J. v. 5. 5, καὶ τὸ μὲν πρῶτον μὲρος … εἶχεν ἐν αὐτῷ τρία θαυμασιώτατα κ . περιβόητα πᾶσιν ἀνθρώποις ἔργα , λυχνίαν , τράπεζαν , θυμιατήριον . So also Clem.-alex [47] Strom. v. 6. 33, pp. 665 f. P., and other Fathers. And thus it has been taken here by the old lat. in D, by Œc. on Hebrews 9:7 ( καὶ θυμιάσει ἐπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , τουτέστιν , ἐπὶ τοῦ χρυσοῦ θυμιατηρίου οὗ ἦν ἐν τοῖς ἁγίοις τῶν ἁγίων κ . τ . λ .), and of later expositors Tostatus (on Exodus 25:0 qu. 6; on 1 Kings 6:0 qu. 16), Calvin, Justiniani, Estius, Corn. a-Lap., La Cerda (Adverss. c. 81, p. 112), Schlichting, Junius, J. Cappellus, Gerhard, Brochmann, Mynster, Owen, Bleek, De Wette, Ebrard, Lünemann, Delitzsch. On the other hand, the meaning “  censer ” is adopted by Syr., vulg. (“  turibulum ”), Thl. ( μετά γε τοῦ χρυσοῦ θυμιατηρίου ἅπαξ εἰσῄει τοῦ ἐνιαυτοῦ εἰς τὰ ἅγια τῶν ἁγίων · ἄλλο γὰρ θυμιατήριον καὶ ἄλλο θυσιαστήριον , on Heb 9:7 ), Anselm, Th. Aquin., Lyra, Luther, Grot., Villalpandus (on Ezek.), Hammond, De Dieu, Calov., Reland, Limborch, Wolf, Bengel, Wetst., Carpzov, Deyling, Michaelis, Schulz, Böhme, Stuart, Kuinoel, Von Gerlach, Stier, Bisping, al. And on this side of the question it is remarkable, that much stress is laid by the Mischna upon  the censer to be used on the day of expiation , as distinguished from that used on any other day: on the fact of its being  of gold , and of a particular and precious kind of gold. I give nearly the whole passage from Surenhusius, Ordo Festorum, ii. 229, as certainly forming an important element in deciding the difficulty. “In omni die deprompsit thuribulo argenteo et in aureum infundebat: hodie deprompsit aureo, et intrabat cum eo. In omni die deprompsit thuribulo quod quatuor cabos continebat, et in alterum infundebat quod tres cabos capiebat: hodie deprompsit thuribulo quod tres cabos capiebat, et intrabat cum eo.… In omni die grave, hodie leve: in omni die manus ejus brevis erat, hodie longa: in omni die aurum ejus viride erat, hodie rufum” (on which Sheringham notes, “Thuribulum quo singulis diebus odores incendebantur, ex auro viridi constabat, quod minus pretiosum erat, sed pretiosum tamen. Martial. xii. 15, ‘miratur Scythicas virentis auri Flammas Jupiter, et stupet superbi Regis delicias.’ Sed in die expiationis thuribulum rutilante auro coruscabat, quod genus auri pretiosissimum et præstantissimum fuit, et זהב פרוים , ut aiunt Talmudici, vocabatur, quia juvencorum sanguinem specie referebat. Quamvis verisimilius videtur a nomine loci sic vocari: vide 2Ch 3:6 ”). See also the citation below on τὴν κιβωτόν . If this latter interpretation be adopted, we are involved in the following difficulty. This  golden censer is no where named in the law: the word rendered “  censer ” by E. V., in Leviticus 16:12 , is מַחְתָּה , a shallow basin, in which the high priest on the day of atonement was to take incense from the incense-altar into the holy place: and is called in the LXX πυρεῖον , not θυμιατήριον . Besides which, it is not specified as golden; nor was it kept in the holy of holies. Indeed it could not have been, or the high priest would have been obliged to fetch it from thence before burning incense in it, which is most improbable. Of these, the first-mentioned objection is not decisive; for our Writer is speaking, not of Mosaic usage only, but of several things outside the provisions of the law itself; and thus our explanation of any difficulty need not be sought in the provisions of the law only, but also in subsequent Jewish usage. This especially against Delitzsch, who, strictly confining us to Mosaic ordinance  here , and asserting that the Writer speaks of it and nothing else, yet  below , on the pot of manna, &c., confesses that he follows tradition. If now, influenced by the above difficulties, we adopt the interpretation ‘  altar of incense ,’ for θυμιατήριον , a difficulty arises, certainly not less than any of those adduced above. On the one hand the word  ἔχουσα at first sight seems to admit of no other meaning than a local one, ‘  containing .’ The parallelism with  ἐν ᾗ above appears to demand this, and the fact that the other things mentioned are beyond question intended to be  in , not merely belonging to, the Holy of holies. On this, see more below. Taking it as our first impression, we are startled by the fact, that the altar of incense  was not in the Holy of holies, but  outside it , ἔσω τοῦ προτέρου καταπετάσματος , as Philo de Vict. Off. § 4, vol. ii. p. 253. Hence Bleek, De Wette, and Lünemann, suppose that the Writer has fallen into a mistake, and Bleek infers from this that he was not an inhabitant of Palestine, but an Alexandrine. But as Delitzsch observes, whichever he were, he must have been a  Monstrum von Unwissenheit , to have fallen into any such error. “Then,” continues Delitzsch, “since we cannot submit him to such an imputation, is there any intent which our Writer may have had, inducing him to ascribe the altar of incense to the Holy of holies, notwithstanding that he knew its local situation to be in the Holy place?” There is such an intent, recognized even by Bleek himself. “The Author,” says Bleek, and after him Tholuck, “treats the Holy of holies, irrespective of the veil, as symbolical of the heavenly sanctuary, and had also a motive to include in it the altar of incense, whose offerings of incense are the symbol of the prayers of the saints, Revelation 8:3 f.” And even so it is. Not only the N. T. writings, but the O. T. also, Isaiah 6:6 , speak of a heavenly altar, which is the antitype there of the earthly מִזְבֵּחַ דַזָּהָב . Considering the fact that this antitypical altar belonged to the Holy of holies, into which Christ entered through the torn veil, it was obvious for our Writer to reckon the typical altar also among the things belonging to the Holy of holies. Philo, who regarded the λυχνία as the type of heaven, the θυμιαιήριον as σύμβολον τῶν περιγείων , ἐξ ὧν αἱ ἀναθυμιάσεις (Vita Mos. iii. 10, vol. ii. p. 251), had no such motive. Our second question then is, whether our Writer is justified, having this motive, in reckoning the altar of incense among the furniture of the Holy of holies. And our answer is, Entirely so: but not for the reason given by Ebrard, because the smoke of the incense was not intended to roll backwards, but to penetrate into the holiest place as the symbol of supplication and homage: which reason is none at all (but see below), seeing that the same might be said of the smoke of the fat of the altar of burnt-offering, and in the same way the golden table and the shewbread might be reckoned in the Holy of holies; for the cakes, a thank-offering of the twelve tribes for the blessing bestowed on them, lay on the table, that He who sat between the cherubim might behold them. Nor can we refer to Exodus 26:35 , where the only reason for the altar of incense not being named among the furniture outside the veil, is, that its construction was not yet prescribed; nor can we adduce the fact of its being called in Exodus 30:10 , קֹדֶשׁ־קָדָשִׁים , holy of holies, seeing that the altar of burnt-offering is in Exodus 40:10 , distinguished by the same name. But the following considerations have weight: α . that the altar of incense, by Exodus 30:6 ; Exodus 40:5 , is to be placed before the ark of the covenant or before the Capporeth (mercy-seat), i. e. in the middle between the candlestick on the right and the table of shewbread on the left, so that its place is subordinate to the ark of the covenant: β . that on the day of atonement, it, as well as the mercy-seat, was sprinkled with the blood of the sin-offering: γ . that in 1 Kings 6:22 , as well as by our Writer, it is reckoned to the Holy of holies, being there called חַמִּזְבֵּחַ אֲשֶׁר לַדְּבִיר , the altar belonging to the sanctuary (E. V., “  the altar that was by the oracle ”). Thenius indeed holds לַדְּבִיר to be an error for לִפְּנֵי הַדְּבִד , “before the sanctuary,” but Keil maintains rightly that that passage of Kings and our passage here mutually defend and explain one another. The solution to be gathered from this would be, that the altar of incense, being appointed by the Mosaic ordinance to stand in immediate contiguity to the veil separating the Holy of holies, and being destined in its use especially for the service of the Holy of holics (for this, notwithstanding the objection brought by Delitzsch, might have weight; the exterior altar of burnt-offering did not belong in any such strict sense to the sanctuary and mercy-seat), and being described in more than one place of Scripture (e. g. Exodus 30:6 ; 1Ki 6:22 ) as connected with the sanctuary, is taken by the Writer as appertaining to the Holy of holies: he choosing, thus to describe it, the somewhat ambiguous word  ἔχουσα , and not ἐν ᾗ as before. For we may set off against what was just now said about the strict parallel at first sight between ἐν ᾗ in the former clause and ἔχουσα in this, that it may be fairly alleged, that the very fact of variation of terms, in such a parallelism, points to some variation of meaning also. I have thus given both views of the solution to be sought: and will now state the result. 1. On either hypothesis,  ἔχουσα cannot be kept to its stricter meaning of  containing . For neither the censer nor the incense-altar was  kept in the holy of holies. 2. The language of the Mischna concerning the golden censer is very strong, and more weight still is given to it when we reflect that it is especially of the day of expiation that our Writer is preparing to speak. 3. The word  χρυσοῦν should not be overlooked in the consideration. When the ark of the covenant by and by is spoken of, which like the altar of incense was overlaid with gold, it is not said to be χρυσοῦν , but only περικεκαλυμμένη πάντοθεν χρυσίῳ . And this predicate being thus emphatically thrown forward, it is hardly possible to help feeling that a stress is laid on it, and it is not used without design. And if we enquire what this design is, we can hardly find fault with the reply which says that it is to distinguish a χρυσοῦν θυμιατήριον from some other kinds of θυμιατήρια . 4. On the whole then I should say that the balance inclines towards the ‘censer’ interpretation, though I do not feel by any means that the difficulty is removed, and should hail any new solution which might clear it still further)  and the ark of the covenant (see Exodus 25:10 ff; Exodus 37:1 ff.: called by this name, אֲרוֹן הַבְּרִית , Jos 3:6 and passim)  covered round on all sides ( ἔσωθεν καὶ ἔξωθεν , Exo 25:11 )  with gold (  χρυσίῳ , not χρυσῷ , perhaps for a  portion of gold, or perhaps, as Delitzsch, for  wrought gold. See Palm and Rost’s Lex. But all distinction between the words seems to have been lost before Hellenistio Greek arose, and the tendency of all later forms of speech is to adopt diminutives where the elder forms used the primitives. The ark, a chest, was of shittim (acacia) wood, overlaid with plates of fine gold, Exod. l. c. The ark of the covenant was in the Holy of holies in the Mosaic tabernacle, and in the temple of Solomon, 1Ki 8:4 ; 1 Kings 8:6 . In the sack by the Chaldeans, it disappeared. See a legend respecting its fate in Malachi 2:1-8; Malachi 2:1-8 , where curiously enough τὴν σκηνὴν καὶ τὴν κιβωτὸν καὶ τὸ θυσιαστήριον τοῦ θυμιάματος are classed together. The second temple did not contain it, but it was represented by a stone basement three fingers high, called אֶבֶן שְׁתִיָה , “the stone of foundation” (Delitzsch: see Gesen. Thesaurus, under שָׁתָה , iii.). So in the Mischna, “Ex quo abducta est arca, lapis ibi erat a diebus priorum prophetarum, et lapis fundationis fuit vocatus; altus e terra tribus digitis, et super ipsum thuribulum collocabat.” So Jos. B. J. v. 5. 5, of the sanctuary, in his time, τὸ δ ʼ ἐνδοτάτω μέρος εἴκοσι μὲν ἦν πηχῶν · διεέργετο δὲ ὁμοίως καταπετάσματι πρὸς τὸ ἔξωθεν . ἔκειτο δὲ οὐδὲν ὅλως ἐν αὐτῷ , ἄβατον δὲ κ . ἄχραντον κ . ἀθέατον ἦν πᾶσιν , ἁγίου δὲ ἅγιον ἐκαλεῖτο ),  in which (was) a golden pot (Exodus 16:32-34 . The word ‘  golden ,’ λάβε στάμνον χρυσοῦν ἕνα , is added by the LXX: so also Philo de Congr. Quær. Erud. Gr. 18, vol. i. p. 533, ἐν στάμνῳ χρυσῷ : the Heb. has merely “a pot,” as E. V.)  containing the manna (viz. an omer, each man’s daily share, laid up for a memorial, cf. Exo 16:32 with Exodus 16:16 . That this pot was to be placed  in the ark , is not said there, but it was gathered probably from the words “before the Lord.” In 1Ki 8:9 and 2 Chronicles 5:10 , it is stated that there was nothing in the ark in Solomon’s temple, except the two tables which Moses put therein at Horeb. But this, as Delitzsch observes, will not prove any thing against the pot of manna and the rod having  once been there; nay rather, from the express declaration that there was  then nothing but the tables of stone, it would seem that formerly there had been other things there. The Rabbis certainly treat of the pot of manna as of the rod, as  being in the ark : see the testimonies of Levi ben Gershom and Abarbanel in Wetst., h. 1.),  and the rod of Aaron which budded (see Numbers 17:1-11 . It was to be laid up “before the testimony,” in which Ben Gershom sees a proof that it was in the ark: “ex eo autem, quod dicit coram testimonio potius quam coram area, discimus, intra arcam fuisse.” Abarbanel refers to “traditio quædam Rabbinorum nostrorum.” See Wetst. as above. The Gemara (Joma 52 b) mentions a tradition that with the ark disappeared the pot of manna, and the cruse of anointing oil, and the rod of Aaron with its almonds and blossoms, and the chest which the Philistines sent for a trespass-offering, 1 Samuel 6:4 ; 1Sa 6:8 ),  and the tables of the covenant (viz. the tables of stone on which the ten commandments were written by the finger of God, Exodus 25:16 ; Exodus 31:18 ; Deuteronomy 10:1-5 ; 1 Kings 8:9 ; 2 Chronicles 5:10 , as above. It will be seen from these references, that these tables were ordered to be put in the ark):
	 [47]-alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194