 9 .]  the which (  ἥτις = ‘quippe quæ,’ as almost always.  ἥτις , viz. the first or anterior tabernacle, and that especially considered as obstructing, by its yet remaining, the way into the holiest. This is better than with Primasius to understand  quæ res , and account for the gender by attraction)  is (not, “  was ,” see above)  a parable ( τουτέστι τύπος κ . σκιαγραφία , Thl.  παραβολή is predicate, not subject, as Calvin, Storr, De W., al. If we make it subject, the verb to be supplied would not be the mere copula, but a significant verb, which would require to be expressed)  for (in reference to: or it may be taken as indicating the terminus ad quem, ‘  until :’ but  I prefer the other: see reff.)  the time (period, or season, with reference to the divine dispensations)  now present (so Primasius, commenting on the “parabola temporis instantis” of the vulg., “Quod enim agebatur in templo tum temporis, figura erat et similitudo istius veritatis quæ jam in ecclesia completur.” And thus recently, and to my mind decisively, Delitzsch. But observe, the first tabernacle was not a parable  of the present time, so that ὁ καιρὸς ὁ ἐνεστηκώς should be the thing represented: but a parable,  for , reserved unto, or given in reference to, the present time, of heavenly things, to which the access is in the present time revealed.
	This application of  τὸν καιρ  .   τ  .   ἐνεστ  . to  the time now present , has not been the general view of Commentators. καιρὸν ἐνεστηκότα , says Chrys., ποῖον λέγει ; τὸν πρὸ τῆς τοῦ χριστοῦ παρουσίας · μετὰ γὰρ τὴν παρουσίαν τοῦ χριστοῦ οὐκέτι καιρός ἐστιν ἐνεστώς · πῶς γάρ , ἐπιγενόμενος καὶ τέλος ἔχων ; and thus Œc., Thl., Schlichting, Seb. Schmidt, Baumg., Bengel, Stein, al. But this meaning, “  the time which was instant ,” would not agree with the pres.  προσφέρονται , to which consequently those interpreters are obliged to do violence. Accordingly we have modifications of this view, e. g. that of Ebrard, al., reading  καθ  ʼ   ὅν below, that ὁ καιρ . ὁ ἐνεστηκώς is the present time of offering O. T. sacrifices, in which the readers of the Epistle were still taking a part. “The author might have called the time of the O. T. worship ‘the past time,’ and he would doubtless have so called it, had he been minded to speak from his own standing-point: but with practical wisdom he here speaks from that of his readers, who yet joined in the temple worship, and for whom the period of sacrifices was not yet passed away.” Ebrard: that of Bleek, Tholuck, and Lünemann, “This πρώτη σκηνή is, or there lies in its establishment, a parabolic setting forth of the character of the present time in general, i. e. of the time of the O. T., of Judaism.” Bl. And so E. V., “which was a figure for the time then present.” See more below under καιροῦ διορθώσεως ),  according to which ( παραβολήν : so Œcum., καθ ʼ ἣν παραβολὴν καὶ καθ ʼ ὃν τύπον : i. e.  in accordance with which typical meaning ; a specification accounting for and justifying the profitless character of the ordinances about to be spoken of. Some (as Lün., al.) have referred ἥν to πρώτης σκηνῆς , but  καθ  ʼ ἥν would hardly thus apply: we should rather expect ἐν ᾗ . Those who read καθ ʼ  ὅν naturally refer it to καιρόν , thereby modifying their view of what is to be understood by τὸν καιρ . τ . ἐνεστηκότα : see above)  both gifts and sacrifices are offered (see reff. for these words. The  present implies only the matter-of-fact endurance of the Levitical offerings, not their subsistence in the divine plan)  having no power (  μὴ δυν  . , subjective, ‘quæ non valeant:’ not οὐ δυν ., ‘invalida,’ ‘quæ non valent.’ The gender of the participle, as so often, is taken from the subst.  next to it)  to perfect in conscience (see  below )  him that serveth (i. e. not the priests, as Est., al., who ἐπετέλουν τὰς λατρείας , but the people, who offered through them. “The offering Israelite assures, doing, as he does, that which God’s law requires, his part, as a member, in the people of the law and of the promised salvation: he obtains also, if he does this with right feeling, operations of divine grace, which he seeks in the way prescribed: but, seeing that the Holy of holies is not yet unveiled, the offerings cannot τελειῶσαι him κατὰ συνείδησιν , i. e. cannot put his moral-religious consciousness, in its inward feeling, into a state of entire and joyful looking for of salvation, so that his συνείδησις should be an onward-waxing consciousness of perfect restoration, of entire clearing up, of total emancipation, of his relation to God.” Delitzsch: who continues, “The material offerings of animals are only parables, referring to the time when that which is parabolically set forth becomes actual and passes into reality. They are, considered of themselves, incapable of any action on the inner part of a man, they are”),