 1 .]  Now accordingly (  μέν answers to δέ Hebrews 9:6 , not to δέ Hebrews 9:11 , see there.
	 οὖν takes up the thought of ch. Hebrews 8:5 , where the command is recited directing Moses to make the tabernacle after the pattern shewn him in the mount. In pursuance of that command it was that ἡ πρώτη κ . τ . λ .)  the first (covenant) (not, the first  tabernacle , as the rec. wrongly and clumsily glosses. There is no question between a first and second  tabernacle : the μείζων καὶ τελειοτέρα σκηνή is a prototype, not an after-thought. The gloss has probably arisen from a blunder in interpreting τῆς πρώτης σκηνῆς in Hebrews 9:8 ; see there)  had (it was no longer subsisting in the Writer’s time as a  covenant , however its observances might be still surviving. ὡσεὶ ἔλεγε , τότε εἶχε , νῦν οὐκ ἔχει · δείκνυσιν ἤδη τούτῳ αὐτὴν ἐκκεχωρηκυῖαν · τότε γὰρ εἶχε , φησίν . ὥστε νῦν , εἰ καὶ ἕστηκεν , οὐκ ἔστιν . Chrys. Or perhaps the  εἶχε may refer back to the time indicated in ch. Hebrews 8:5 , when Moses made the tabernacle: had, when its liturgical appliances were first provided. But I prefer the other view)  also (as well as this second and more perfect covenant: not that this has all the things below mentioned, but that it too possesses its corresponding liturgical appliances, though of a higher kind)  ordinances (“The vulg. renders ‘  justificationes culturœ .’ But the idea of  δικαίωμα is ever passive. It imports always the product of either right appointment, or righteous judgment, or righteous conduct: the ordinance having the force of right (ref. Luke), the righteously uttered judgment ( Rom 5:16 ), the decree according to righteousness ( Rev 15:4 ), the righteous performance ( Rom 5:18 ); here beyond doubt, and Hebrews 9:10 , in the first of these senses, in which the LXX have it for מִשְׁפָּט , חֹק and their synonyms. It is from δικαιοῦν , to give the force of law, to make of legal obligation. The old covenant also had liturgical ordinances, which were ‘juris divini,’ ordinances which rested their obligatory right upon revelation from God and declaration of His will.” Delitzsch)  of service (  worship : see ch. Heb 8:5 and note),  and its (or,  the : see below)  worldly sanctuary (Thom. Aq., Luther, al. take  ἅγιον not in a local but in an ethical sense, = ἁγιότης : Wolf understands by it “vasa sacra totumque apparatum Leviticum.” But as the whole passage treats of the distinction between two sanctuaries, one into which the Levitical priests entered, and the other into which Christ is entered, it is certain that the signification must be local only. As regards the meaning of  κοσμικόν , it must not be taken with Homberg as = κόσμιον , 1Ti 2:9 ; 1 Timothy 3:2 , for both usage and the art. are against this: nor again, with Theodor.-mops., Thdrt., Œc.(alt.), Grot., Wetst., Hammond, as σύμβολον τοῦ κόσμου : nor again as Kypke, “toto terrarum orbe celebratum,” as Jos. B. J. iv. 5. 2, where the high priests Ananus and Jesus are described as τῆς κοσμικῆς θρησκείας κατάρχοντες , προσκυνούμενοί τε τοῖς ἐκ τῆς οἰκουμένης , a meaning which would apply only to the temple, not to the tabernacle, which, from Hebrews 9:2 , is here spoken of: nor again as Chrys. ( ἐπεὶ οὖν καὶ Ἕλλησι βατὸν ἦν , κοσμικὸν αὐτὸ καλεῖ · οὐ γὰρ δὴ οἱ Ἰουδαῖοι κόσμος ἦν ), Thl., Erasmus, al., which would only be true of a part of the ἅγιον , viz. the court of the Gentiles: but as in ref., and constantly in the Fathers, “  mundanus ,” belonging to this world. So Plut., Consol. in Bl., κατὰ .… τὴν κοσμικὴν διάταξιν : Hierocl. Carm. Aur. 126, τῆς κοσμικῆς εὐταξίας . So that it stands opposed to ἐπουράνιον , and is an epithet distinguishing the sanctuary of the first covenant from that of the second, not one common to the two. This is also shewn by the art.  τό , to the consideration of which we now come. The art. itself is remarkable, as is also the non-repetition of it before κοσμικόν . And this latter circumstance has induced some, among whom is Delitzsch, to take κοσμικόν as a predicate, “and its (or, the) sanctuary, a worldly one.” For the necessity or veri similitude of this, usage is alleged, and such passages as τὸ σῶμα θνητὸν ἅπαντες ἔχομεν , where we have ἔχω with a definite subst. as an object, and an indefinite predicate attached. But if I do not mistake, the peculiar arrangement of the clause here forbids such a rendering. For, 1.  εἶχεν is not peculiar to this clause, but common to the two of which the sentence consists: and we should therefore expect, especially from a writer so careful of rhetorical equilibrium, that the objects in the two clauses should correspond: not that the first of them should be  merely objective, and the second predicative. Again, 2. the use and position of the copula  τε seems to forbid any such disjoining of substantive and epithet: being, however loosely used in later Greek, a closer copula than καί . I conceive the article to be rather used to distribute the object and epithet which follow it: the first covenant had not merely  a worldly sanctuary, but the only sanctuary which was upon earth: that one which was constructed after the pattern of things in the heavens. Possibly another reason for inserting it might be, to define beyond doubt the substantival use of the neuter adj. ἅγιον when joined with an epithet such as κοσμικόν . As to the omission of the art. before κοσμικόν , it is no bar to rendering the adj. as an epithet: cf. τοῦ αἰῶνος τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος πονηροῦ , Gal 1:4 ).