 19 .]  For (explanation of the assertion in last verse)  when every commandment had been spoken according to the law (these last words,  κατὰ τὸν νόμον , belong not to ἐντολῆς , as vulg. (“lecto enim omni mandato legis”), Schlicht., Calov., Jac. Cappell., Seb. Schmidt, Bengel, Chr. F. Schmid, Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, al., which would be more naturally τῆς κατὰ τ . ν . (as indeed Thl. gives it in his altern.: τουτέστι , καθὼς ὁ θεὸς ἐνομοθέτησεν ἵνα λαληθῶσιν εἰς τὰ ὦτα παντὸς τοῦ λαοῦ · ἤ , πάσης ἐντολῆς τῆς κατὰ τὸν νόμον , τουτέστι τῆς νομοθετηθείσης ), but to λαληθείσης , spoken according to the law, i. e. as the law directed, not varying from it in any point. The law was ὁ νόμος τῶν ἐντολῶν , and these ἐντολαί were faithfully reported)  by Moses to all the people (see Exodus 24:3 , καὶ διηγήσατο τῷ λαῷ πάντα τὰ ῥήματα τοῦ θεοῦ καὶ τὰ δικαιώματα . The παντί , not given in Exodus, may be inferred from ἀπεκρίθη δὲ πᾶς ὁ λαός , which follows in the same verse),  taking the blood (the additional detail of Exo 24:5 is omitted, viz. that “he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed peace-offerings of oxen unto the Lord.” It was of this blood that Moses took)  of the calves and goats (the former only are mentioned in Exodus: שְׁלָמִים ליהֹוָה פָּרִים . But this is only said of the peace-offerings. The  burnt-offerings (see above) after the analogy of the rites on the day of atonement, might be presumed to be goats. Indeed the key to the additions made here to the text of Exodus is, that the account is filled up by subsequent usage. We may presume, that the solemn legal appointment of various ceremonial details was in fact only a divine sanction of practices already existing: sacrifice having been long in use, and that under the direction and approval of God Himself)  with water (prescribed, in Numbers 19:6 ; Numbers 19:17 , to be mixed with the ashes of the red heifer which were to be kept for purifying: cf. also Leviticus 14:50 f.: see above),  and scarlet wool and hyssop (see Leviticus 14:49 ff.: by comparing which with Numbers 19:0 as above, it may fairly be inferred, as our text here assures us was the fact, that these instruments were the ordinary ones in cleansing and sprinkling, even before their positive enactment as such by the law. The hyssop indeed we find thus prescribed, ref. Exod., in sprinkling the blood on the door-posts at the Passover. As to the manner of using, the stalk or bunch of hyssop was wrapt round with scarlet wool to make it absorb the blood, being tied with the same wool to a staff of cedar-wood to keep it stiff. On  hyssop itself, there are various opinions, enumerated in Winer, Realw., “Ysop.” The most approved makes it to be a plant growing on walls, ‘hyssopus officiualis,’ with small lancet-formed woolly leaves, about an inch long, a knotty stalk from 1 foot to 1½ high, with blue (sometimes white) flowers),  he sprinkled both the book itself (nothing is said of this in Exodus 24:0 . And hence some have endeavoured to take  αὐτό τε τὸ βιβλίον with  λαβών , not with  ἐράντισεν . So the Coptic and Armen. versions: and so Grot., Wittich, Cramer, Bengel, Michaelis, Storr, al. But it is obvious, that the  καί after βιβλίον renders this impossible. The book is of course that out of which he had just read the ordinances of God: τὸ βιβλίον τῆς διαθήκης . If, as Stier supposes, Moses took the book ( Exo 24:7 ) from off the altar, where it was lying when he sprinkled the altar with blood, then the book was sprinkled likewise: but nothing in the text of Exodus implies this)  and all the people (LXX, λαβὼν δὲ Μωυσῆς τὸ αἷμα , κατεσκέδασεν τοῦ λαοῦ . Of course the words πάντα τὸν λαόν are not to be taken to mean that he sprinkled every individual; but merely the whole mass, as they stood),  saying,