 11, 12 .]  The fulfilment of these types by Christ .  But (the contrast is to the μὴ δυνάμ . and the μέχρι καιρ . above to the ineffectiveness and the merely provisional nature of the Levitical offerings)  Christ (not ‘Jesus’ here: because the Writer will introduce with emphasis that name which carries with it the fulfilment of all type and prophecy. Nor again, ὁ χριστός ( παραγεν . δὲ ὁ χρ .), because he will not say that ‘the Messiah’ was come, but will use that well-known name as a personal name belonging to Him whom now all Christians know by it)  having appeared (  παραγίγνεσθαι is the usual word for  appearing or  coming forward as a historical person: appearing on the stage of the world: see reff. And it is of this appearance of Christ in history that the word is here used. That appearance was the point of demarcation between prophecy and fulfilment, between the old covenant and the new. So that  παραγενόμενος is rather to be taken of the whole accomplished course of Christ summed up in one, than either of His first incarnation upon earth, or of His full inauguration into His Melchisedek High Priesthood in heaven. Chrys., Thl., al. join it so closely to ἀρχιερεὺς τ . μ . ἀγ . as to make that predicatory clause the very object of His παραγενέσθαι : so Thl., οὐκ εἶπε δὲ γειόμενος ἀρχ . ἀλλὰ παραγενόμενος ἀρχ ., τουτέστιν εἰς αὐτὸ τοῦτο ἐλθών . οὐ πρότερον παρεγένετο , εἶτα , συμβὰν οὕτω , ἐγένετο ἀρχιερεύς , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ σκοπὸς τοῦ παραγεγονέναι αὐτὸν εἰς τὴν γῆν ἡ ἀρχιερωσύνη ἦν . Chrys. very similarly, adding, εἰς αὐτὸ τοῦτο ἐλθών , οὐχ ἕτερον διαδεξάμενος · οὐ πρότερον παρεγένετο , καὶ τότε ἐγένετο , ἀλλὰ ἅμα ἦλθε . But there is no need of this. It was not  εἰς τὸ εἶναι ἀρχιερέα , but  as being  ἀρχιερεύς , that Christ παρεγένετο . There is no need for a comma after παραγενόμενος on the rendering above given)  as High Priest of the good things to come (the question of the reading has much divided Commentators here. I have had no hesitation in retaining the rec., believing γενομένων to have been either a clerical error, or a correction in the sense given e. g. by Ebrard, who requires a contrast between the mere antitypical and foreshadowed goods of the O. T. and the substantial and fulfilled goods of the N. T. But no such contrast is here to be found. The contrast is between weak rites which could not, and the sacrifice of Christ which can, purify the conscience: the stress of our sentence is not at all on τὰ μέλλοντα or τὰ γενόμενα ἀγαθά , but on χριστός in the first degree, and on παραγενόμενος in the second. ἀρχιερεύς is the office common to both the subjects of comparison.  τὰ μέλλοντα ἀγαθά are in this case the blessed promises of the Christian covenant, different, in the very nature of the case, from  their μέλλοντα ἀγαθά , but still, in formal expression, a term common to them and us: so that the expression ἀρχιερεὺς τῶν μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν might in its scantiness of sense have been used of a Jewish high priest, just as it is in its fulness of completed sense used of Christ now. Herein I should differ both from Hofmann and Delitzsch, the former of whom (Schriftb. ii. 1. 292) maintains that the difference between the O. T. and the N. T. High Priest is that the one is an ἀρχιερεὺς ἀγαθῶν , which the other was not: and the latter, disputing this distinction, states the difference to be, that the one is an ἀρχ . τῶν  μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν , which the other was not. The fact being, that both might be described as ἀρχ . τῶν μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν , but that Christ has by His revelation brought life and immortality to light; so that those words bear another and a more blessed meaning now than they could then: in fact, that, as brought out in ch. Hebrews 10:1 , which is a key-text to open this, the law had σκιὰν τῶν μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν , whereas we have αὐτὴν τὴν εἰκόνα τῶν πραγμάτων . After what has been said, it is hardly necessary to add that I take  μέλλοντα as meaning not, which were future ‘  respectu legis ,’ but which  are now future; the κληρονομία ἄφθαρτος of 1 Peter 1:4 , the ἐλπιζόμενα of our ch. Hebrews 11:1 ; see our Writer’s usage in reff. The gen. after ἀρχιερεύς is, as Hofm. and Delitzsch well remark, not an attributive, but an objective one: the μέλλοντα ἀγαθά are the objects and ultimate regard of his High Priesthood),  through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation (1.  How are these words to be constructed? 2.  To what tabernacle do they refer? 1. They belong to εἰσῆλθεν below, not to παραγενόμενος ἀρχιερεύς above, as Primasius, Luther, Schulz, al. For in that case, οὐδέ would be left without any preceding member of the negation to follow, or it must be considered as the sequence to οὐ ταύτης τῆς κτίσεως , or to οὐ χειροποιήτου , either of which would be absurd. So likewise recently Hofmann, joining however the whole, down to ἰδίου αἵματος , with the subject ἀρχιερεύς . Of his whole view, I shall treat below. 2. The  διὰ is  local : as the Jewish high priest passed through the πρώτη σκηνή in entering into the earthly ἅγια , so our High Priest has passed through the μείζων κ . τελειοτέρα σκηνή to enter into the heavenly ἅγια (on the second διὰ , see below). But, this settled,  what is this greater and more perfect tabernacle? The Fathers for the most part interpret it of  Christ’s body or  human nature . So Chrys. (not however excluding the other interpretation, but maintaining that different things are typified by the same types: ὁρᾷς πῶς καὶ σκηνὴν κ . καταπέτασμα κ . οὐρανὸν τὸ σῶμα καλεῖ ; … τίνος οὖν ἕνεκεν τοῦτα ποιεῖ ; ἡμᾶς διδάξαι βουλόμενος , καθ ʼ ἕτερον καὶ ἕτερον σημαινόμενον τὸν αὐτὸν λόγον ὄντα . οἷόν τι λέγω , καταπέτασμα ὁ οὐρανός ἐστιν · ὥσπερ γὰρ ἀποτειχίζει τὰ ἅγια καταπέτασμα , καὶ ἡ σὰρξ κρύπτουσα τὴν θεότητα · καὶ σκηνὴ ὁμοίως ἡ σάρξ , ἔχουσα τὴν θεότητα · καὶ σκηνὴ πάλιν ὁ οὐρανός · ἐκεῖ γάρ ἐστιν ἔνδον ὁ ἀρχιερεύς ), Thl. (similarly), Thdrt., Œc., Ambros. (on Psalms 118:0 ), Primas., Clarius, Calvin, Beza, Est., Jac. Cappellus, Grotius, Hammoud, Bengel, al. Ebrard takes it of  Christ’s holy life , and τὰ ἅγια of His exaltation; passing, in fact, from reality into symbol: Œcolampadius, Cajetan, Corn. a-Lap., Calov., Wittich, Wolf, al. of  the Church on earth : Justiniani and Carpzov (relying on several passages of Philo, where the world is called the temple of God),  the whole world : Hofmann,  the glorified Body of Christ , which, and not the Body of His flesh, he maintains can alone be said to be οὐ ταύτης τῆς κτίσεως , and in which dwells ( Col 2:9 ) all the fulness of the Godhead bodily. Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., and Stier,  the lower region of the heavens , through which Christ passed in ascending to the throne of God: Tholuck, merely a superadded feature, having no representation in reality, but serving only to complete the idea of a heavenly sanctuary. Delitzsch keeps to his interpretation in ch. Hebrews 8:2 (which see discussed in note there) as against Hofmann. But here, as there, I believe that his and Hofmann’s views run up into one: though perhaps here the weight is on his side, as it was there on Hofmann’s. Hofm.’s reason for joining διὰ τῆς μείζ .… ἰδίου αἵματος , with ἀρχιερεύς , is, that unless it be so joined, the stress laid on εἰσῆλθεν ἐφάπαξ is split up and weakened by the negative and positive qualifications appended to εἰσῆλθεν . But the answer is plain, with Delitzsch, that nothing can be farther from the truth; these qualifications being in fact the very conditions, on which the completeness and finality of that entrance depended. Another of Hofm.’s objections may be as easily answered; viz. that if we join διὰ .… δι ʼ both with εἰσῆλθεν we must understand the first διὰ local, the second instrumental. But as the preposition in Greek carries both meanings, so does it both in German (  durch ), and in English (through): and besides, both meanings are, in their inner import, one and the same. The σκηνή here, as in ch. Hebrews 8:2 , is the οὐρανοί (ch. Hebrews 4:14 , διεληλυθότα τούς οὐρανούς ) through which Christ passed not only locally, but conditionally, being the abode of blessed spirits and just men made perfect = His mystical Body (see on ch. Hebrews 8:2 ; and below, on the other epithets of this tabernacle), and τὰ ἅγια is the ὁ οὐρανὸς αὐτός (Hebrews 9:24 , εἰσῆλθεν εἰς αὐτὸν τὸν οὐρανόν ), the especial abode of the invisible and unapproachable God. As regards the epithets of this σκηνή , first it is distinguished by the art.  τῆς , = nearly ἐκείνης τῆς , ‘  that tabernacle of which we know .’ Then it is called  μείζων , in contrast with the small extent and import of that other, and  τελειοτέρα , in contrast with its ineffectiveness and its exclusion from the divine presence: perhaps also with its merely symbolical, and its transitory nature. “The indeterminate οὐ χειροποιήτου , a word of St. Luke in similar connexion. Acts 7:48 ; Acts 17:24 , is explained by the Writer himself by οὐ ταύτης τῆς κτίσεως , and serves as an apposition to the preceding. That tabernacle is not built by hands of men, but by the Lord Himself, ch. Hebrews 8:2 ; it is of His own immediate placing, not belonging to this creation, not only not to this material creation which surrounds us, out of which we get our building materials, but altogether not to this first and present creation: it belongs to the age of the future, to the glorified world.” Delitzsch. The rendering “  not of this building ,” E. V., also Erasm., Luther, Beza, Wolf, Bengel, Kuinoel, al., is wrong, and misses the idea, giving in fact a tautological explanation for οὐ χειροποιήτου . As to the word  χειροποίητος , it is classical, see Herod. ii 140: Thuc. ii. 77: Pausan. Eliac. ii. 19: Polyb. i. 75. 4; iv. 64. 4; and other examples in Bleek),  nor yet (  οὐδέ , exclusive, but not necessarily climacterical; q. d. ‘no, nor with any of the typical accompaniments of that other tabernacle.’ It is neatly stated by Delitzsch, that οὔτε is the opposite of καί ‘  and ,’ οὐδέ of καί ‘  also ’)  through (as a medium of preparation and approach. The instrumental sense very nearly approaches the local: so that there need be no scruple about the apparently different senses given to  διὰ in the two clauses: see above)  blood of goats and calves (the plurals are simply generic: for the portion of the ceremonies of the day of atonement, see ref. Levit.),  nay rather (on this strongly contrasting  δέ , see note ch. Heb 2:6 )  through (see above; through, as His medium of entrance: it was as a key opening the holiest to Him)  His own blood (not δι ʼ αἵματος ἰδίου , nor διὰ τοῦ αἵματος τοῦ ἰδίου , but, which is more emphatic than either after the former anarthrous αἵματος , διὰ τοῦ ἰδίου αἵματος q. d. ‘through that blood of His own.’ St. Luke has used the very same expression in ref. Acts)  entered ( χριστός above is the emphatic subject of the whole sentence)  once for all (see ref.)  into the holy places, and obtained (on  εὑρίσκω in this sense, see ch. Hebrews 4:16 . The aor. part. is contemporary with the aor. itself εἰσῆλθεν . The redemption was not accomplished  when He  entered , but accomplished  by His  entering . And our only way of expressing this contemporaneity in English is by resolving the part. into another aorist with the copula, as in ἀποκριθεὶς εἶπε , and similar cases. Consult the note on ch. Hebrews 2:10 , which is not, however, a strictly parallel case. Here as there, the contemporaneous  completion of the two acts must be kept in view, and any such rendering as Ebrard’s, “in bringing about,” carefully avoided. The form of the word, εὑ  ράμε νος , is Alexandrine, found also in Philo, but not in Attic Greek: see Lobeck on Phryn. p. 139 f. The middle is of that force which Krüger calls dynamic, Sprachlehre § 52.8. It imports the full casting of oneself into the action: thus in an ordinary case, τοὺς τὸν πόλεμον ποιοῦντας , Isocr., but Ἄγις οὐκ ἐκ παρέργου τὸν πόλεμον  ἐποιεῖτο , Thucyd. So that εὑράμενος here gives an energy and full solemnity to the personal agency of our Redeemer in the work of our redemption, which εὑρών would not give)  eternal redemption for us (  αἰωνίαν , answering to ἐφάπαξ above: as Hofmann remarks, the λύτρωσις is the aim and end of the approach of our High Priest to God: if then this approach has once for all taken place, the λύτρωσις is therewith for ever accomplished. For the fem. form αἰων  ίαν , see ref. 2 Thess. It occurs sometimes in the LXX: e. g. Numbers 25:13 ; Isa 61:4 al.  λύτρωσις (reff.) is used elsewhere by St. Luke only: so also λυτρώτης , Acts 7:35 . λυτροῦσθαι , Luke 24:21 , is also used by St. Paul once, Titus 2:14 , and St. Peter, 1 Peter 1:18 . ἀπολύτρωσις is St. Paul’s word, occurring also in Luke 21:28 , and in our Hebrews 9:15 , and ch. Hebrews 11:35 . In both words, as applied to our final redemption at the coming of Christ, the idea of ransom is rather in the background, and that of deliverance prevails over it: but in both, as applied to the redemption which Christ wrought by His death, the idea of price paid for redemption and redemption by that price, is kept prominent. This may be especially shewn by the two great texts Matthew 20:28 (and [48] Mark), ὁ υἱὸς τ . ἀνθ .… ἦλθεν δοῦναι τ . ψυχὴν αὐτοῦ λύτρον ἀντὶ πολλῶν , and 1 Timothy 2:6 , ὁ δοὺς ἑαυτὸν ἀντίλυτρον ὑπὲρ πάντων . The price paid for our redemption is His  death ( Heb 9:15 ) as the sacrifice of Himself, Tit 2:14 ; 1 Timothy 2:5 f., His  blood Ephesians 1:7 , as the sacrifice of His life, Mat 20:28 ; 1 Peter 1:19 . And here also it is His blood which is the λύτρον . Delitzsch, from whom the substance of the above is taken, goes on to shew, on the ground of the analogy between Christ and the O. T. high priests who took the blood in before God and sprinkled it on His mercy seat, that it was God to whom this λύτρον was paid, and not, as many of the Fathers held, Satan. See his notes, in his Comm. pp. 386 7. On the matter itself, the entrance of Christ into the holiest διὰ τοῦ ἰδίου αἵματος , I cannot do better than refer the student to the following pages of Delitzsch, where he has treated at length, and in a most interesting manner, the various hypotheses. I do not sum up the results here, because it is a subject of such peculiar solemnity, that the mind requires its treatment in full, in order to approach it reverently: and such full treatment would far exceed the limits of a general commentary. I have indicated some of the principal lines of hypothesis on ch. Hebrews 12:24 , where the direct mention of the αἷμα ῥαντισμοῦ makes it necessary).
	 [48] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .