 2 .]  For the tabernacle (most Commentators, as De Wette, Bleek, Lünemann, Delitzsch, al., render (correctly enough for the Greek, cf. ch. Hebrews 6:7 ; Acts 10:41 ; Acts 19:11 ; Act 26:22 ), “  a tabernacle,” and then take ἡ πρώτη as specifying. But I should rather query, whether this be not carrying nicety too far for the idiom of modern languages: and whether we can come closer in English to σκηνὴ ἡ πρώτη , and σκηνὴ ἡ λεγομένη ἁγία , than by ‘the tabernacle, namely, the first one,’ and ‘the tabernacle which was called holy.’ For as Delitzsch remarks, “the general idea σκηνή is put forward anarthrously, and afterwards defined by appositional epithets having the article.” But when we say ‘a tabernacle,’ we do not express the general idea σκηνή , but an indefinite concrete example of it. The English only admits such expressions in plurals and abstracts: e. g. γῆ ἡ πιοῦσα , “land which hath drunk:” δυνάμεις οὐχ αἱ τυχοῦσαι , “miracles of no common sort.” Or we may say that in both cases σκηνή being thrown emphatically forward, loses its article. At all events, by rendering it “a tabernacle” in both places, as Delitzsch (not the rest, that I can discover), we give a tinge of indefiniteness which certainly does not belong to it, and seem to lose the solemn reference to the well-known tabernacle)  was established (on  κατασκευάζω , see on ch. Hebrews 3:3 . It is often found of the setting up or establishing of a tent: Xen. Cyr. ii. 1. 25, σκηνὰς αὐτοῖς κατεσκεύασε : ib. 30, Κῦρος δὲ αὑτῷ σκηνὴν μὲν κατεσκευάσατο : Jos. c. Apion. ii. 2, Μωυσῆς , ὅτε τὴν πρώτην σκηνὴν τῷ θεῷ κατεσκεύασεν )  the first one ( πρώτη , in situation, to those entering: see Act 16:12 note, and compare the Homeric expression ἐν πρώτῃσι θύρῃσι . In the citation from Josephus above, the expression is used in a  temporal sense, as distinguished from the subsequent one, in the temple of Solomon. The question, whether the Writer thinks (locally) of two tabernacles, or is speaking of the  first portion of one and the same tabernacle, is of no great importance: the former would be but a common way of expressing the latter: and we can hardly deny that ‘two tabernacles’ are spoken of, in the presence of σκ . ἡ λεγομένη ἅγια ἁγίων below), in  which were (not, “  are ,” as Lünem., holding it to be ruled by λέγεται below. But λέγεται only refers to a name, now, as then, given: the position of the articles enumerated in the πρώτη σκηνἡ must be contemporaneous with κατεσκ . above)  the candlestick (with seven lights: of gold, carved with almond flowers, pomegranates and lilies: see Exodus 25:31-39 ; Exodus 37:17-24 . There were  ten of these in the temple of Solomon, see 1 Kings 7:49 ; 2 Chronicles 4:7 ; but in the second temple, the Mosaic regulation was returned to, and  only one placed in the tabernacle: see 1Ma 1:21 ; 1Ma 4:49 ; Jos. Antt. xii. 7. 6: also B. J. v. 5. 5 (see below); vii. 5. 5, where he describes Vespasian’s triumph, and the candlestick as borne in it, which is now to be seen in relief on the arch of Titus at Rome)  and the table (for the shewbread; of shittim (acacia?) wood, overlaid with gold, Exodus 25:23-30 ; Exodus 37:10-16 , of which there was  one only in the Mosaic tabernacle, and in the second temple (1 Macc. ut supra), but  ten in Solomon’s temple, see 2 Chronicles 4:8 ; also ib. 2 Chronicles 4:19 ; 1 Chronicles 28:16 ; 1Ki 7:48 )  and the shew of the bread (there can be little doubt that Tholuck and Delitzsch are right, who understand  ἡ πρόθεσις τῶν ἄρτων not of the  custom of exhibiting the bread, but, seeing that the Writer is speaking of concrete objects, as ‘strues panum,’ the heap of bread itself thus exhibited.  πρόθεσις , says Del., is the Greek word for מַעֲרֶכֶת . We have it similarly used in LXX, ref. 2 Chron. There it is in the plural, which Bleek maintains would have been the case here were it so meant, in reference to the double row of pieces: but I cannot see why the whole mass should not be called the πρόθεσις ):  which tabernacle (the categorical  ἥτις , ‘that tabernacle namely, which’)  is called the holy place (Erasmus, Steph., Eras. Schmid, Mill, al. write this  ἁγία , as fem., and agreeing with σκηνή , and so Luther,  die heilige , and E. V., “the sanctuary.” The vulg., “quæ dicitur sancta,” appears to refer the clause to “propositio panum” immediately preceding. D-lat. (see D 1 in digest) has “sancta sanctorum.” There can be no doubt that it is neut. plur. This is insisted on as early as by Thdrt.: προπαροξυτόνως ἀναγνωστέον τὰ ἅγια · οὕτω γὰρ ἡμᾶς διδάσκει νοεῖν τὸ ἕτερον ὄνομα : viz. ἅγια ἁγίων , Hebrews 9:3 . So Erasm. (annot.) and all the moderns. But even thus the omission of the art. is significant. The Writer is not so much speaking of the holy place by  name , τὰ ἅγια , as by quality and predication, (the) holy (places).