 5 .]  and (  δέ , as contrasted to ‘within’)  over above it (the ark of the covenant)  (the) cherubim (the well-known fourfold animal forms, fencing from human approach, and at the same time bearing up and supporting, the glory of God: symbolizing, as I believe and have elsewhere maintained (Hulsean Lectures for 1841, Lect. i. See also note on Rev 4:6-8 ),  the creation of God . See more below)  of glory ( ἢ τὰ ἔνδοξα , ἢ τὰ ὄντα τῆς δόξης , τουτέστι τοῦ θεοῦ : Œc., Cyril, similarly Thl., … ἢ τὰ λειτουργικὰ τοῦ θεοῦ , κ . πρὸς δόξαν αὐτοῦ ὄντα : and Chrys., … ἢ τὰ ὑποκάτω τοῦ θεοῦ . There can be little doubt that the latter class of meanings is to be taken, though Camerar., Beza (vers.), Est., Corn. a-Lap., Schlichting, Kuinoel, al. adopt the former. For we may well say, why such a periphrasis if a mere epithet were intended, when we have already the epithets χρυσοῦν and περικεκαλυμμένην χρυσίῳ ? The  δόξα is the Shechinah, or bright cloud of glory, in which Jehovah appeared between the cherubic forms, and to which, as attendants, and watchers, and upholders, they belonged. The want of the art. before δόξης is no argument for the other view, as δόξα is often used thus anarthrous for the Shechinah: cf. Exodus 40:28 (34), κ . ἐκάλυψεν ἡ νεφέλη τὴν σκηνὴν τοῦ μαρτυρίου , κ . δόξης κυρίου ἐπλήσθη ἡ σκηνή : 1 Kings 4:22 ; Ezekiel 9:3 ; Eze 10:18 al. On the Cherubim, see further Winer, Realw. sub voce)  overshadowing (casting shadow down upon, causing to be κατάσκιον : see reff. Exod.  χερουβίν here, as usually, is neuter: cf. Genesis 3:24 ; Exo 25:18 al.: sometimes the LXX have used it masc.: e. g. Exodus 25:20 ; Exo 28:23 al. There seems to be a reason for the variation: the neut. being employed when they are spoken of merely as  figures , the masc. when as  agents . The neut. prevails in Philo: Josephus has οἱ χερουβεῖς Antt. iii. 6. 5, and αἱ χερουβεῖς ib. viii. 3. 3)  the mercy-seat (the ἱλαστήριον ἐπίθεμα of Exodus 25:17 ; the massive golden cover of the ark of the covenant, on which the glory of Jehovah appeared between the cherubim: Heb. כַּפֹּרֶת , cover. It was that upon which especially the blood of the propitiatory sacrifice was sprinkled on the day of atonement, Leviticus 16:15 , and from this circumstance apparently, the propitiation taking place on it, it obtained its name of ἱλαστήριον . It was the footstool of God, 1 Chronicles 28:2 ; Psalms 99:5 ; Psalms 132:7 ; Lamentations 2:1 ; the spot where He, the God of the covenant, met with Israel, the people of the covenant: see Exodus 25:22 ; Leviticus 16:2 ; Numbers 7:89 . See also Philo de Prof. § 19, vol. i. p. 561, τῆς δὲ ἵλεως δυνάμεως , τὸ ἐπίθεμα τῆς κιβωτοῦ , καλεῖ δὲ αὐτὸ ἱλαστήριον : Vita Mos. iii. 8, vol. ii. p. 150, ἧς ἐπίθεμα ὡσανεὶ πῶμα τὸ λεγόμενον ἐν ἱεραῖς βίβλοις ἱλαστήριον : ib., τὸ δὲ ἐπίθεμα τὸ προσαγορευόμενον ἱλαστήριον . Thl., h. l., says, ἱλαστήριον ἐλέγετο τὸ πῶμα τῆς κιβωτοῦ , ὡς ἐκ τῆς γραφῆς αὐτῆς μαθήσῃ ἀκριβέστερον · καὶ μὴ ἀπατηθεὶς τοῖς τινων λόγοις , ἄλλο τι νοήσῃς τοῦτο εἶναι ):  concerning which it is not (opportune) (this use of ἐστιν with inf.,= ἔξεστιν , is pure Attic)  now to speak one by one (i. e. particularly, ‘singillatim:’ so  κατὰ μέρος in Plato, Theæt. 157 B, δεῖ δὲ καὶ κατὰ μέρος οὕτω λέγειν καὶ περὶ πολλῶν ἀθροισθέντων : Polyb. iii. 32. 3; 19. 11, περὶ ὧν ἡμεῖς τὰ κατὰ μέρος .… διασαφήσομεν , al. in Bleek. The clause refers evidently not to the Cherubim only, but to all the contents of the sanctuary just mentioned. So Chrys., ἐνταῦθα ᾐνίξατο ὅτι οὐ ταῦτα ἦν μόνον τὰ ὁρώμενα , ἀλλὰ αἰνίγματά τινα ἦν , περὶ ὧν οὐκ ἔστι φησὶ νῦν λέγειν κατὰ μέρος , ἴσως ὡς μακροῦ δεομένων λόγου ).