 13, 14 .]  Argument , ‘a minori ad majus,’  to shew the cleansing power of Christ’s blood .  For (rendering a reason for αἰων . λύτρ . εὑράμενος )  if (with indic., ‘as we know it does’)  the blood (  τὸ αἷμα , compared with τὸ αἷμα below, because it is not the one blood compared with the other in its quality, but the shedding of the one blood compared with the shedding of the other: the articles then  distribute the  subject in each case)  of goats and bulls (viz. the yearly offering on the day of atonement, Leviticus 16:0 s  ταύρων this time, both as more precise, males alone being offered, and as forming an alliteration with τράγων )  and ashes of an heifer (see the whole ordinance, full of significance, in Numbers 19:1-22 .  σποδός has no art. because the ashes were to be laid up, and a portion used as wanted)  sprinkling (= ῥαντιζομένη ἐπί .  ῥαντίζειν is a Hellenistic form: ῥαίνειν is the pure Greek, and also the commoner form in the LXX (14 times: the other 3 only. See reff.): who however in Numbers 19:0 call the water in which were ashes of the red heifer, ὕδωρ ῥαντισμοῦ )  those who have been defiled (D-lat., vulg., Luth., Calv., De Wette in his version, al. make this accus. depend on ἁγιάζει . But to this there are two objections: 1. it is much less likely that ῥαντίζουσα should be absolute, than that ἁγιάζει should: 2. on this hypothesis, those who were the subjects of the virtue of the blood of the goats and bulls would also be described as κεκοινωμένοι , which they were not in the same sense as those who were sprinkled with the water of separation containing the ashes of the heifer. This latter objection is to me decisive. The word  κοινόω , in this usage of to make unclean, to defile, as the opposite of ἁγιάζω , as κοινός itself over against ἅγιος , is Hellenistic, and first found in the N. T.: the LXX have for it μιαίνω and βεβηλόω , and for the person defiled, ἀκάθαρτος . In 1Ma 1:47 ; 1Ma 1:62 only, is κοινός found in the sense of unclean)  sanctifieth to (so as to bring about)  the purity (not “purifying,” as E. V.)  of the flesh (it is evident, that the Writer speaks only of the Levitical rites in their matter-of-fact results as ‘opera operata,’ not of any divine grace which might accrue to the soul of the faithful Israelite from a spiritual partaking in them. The outward effect of the sacrifices of the day of atonement, as well as of the sprinkling of the ashes of the heifer, was, to render ceremonially pure before God, in the one case from the imputation of the defilement of sin on the whole people, in the other, from the defilement actually contracted by contact with death or uncleanness. These effects they had in themselves: what others they had, out of themselves, belonged not so much to them, as to that great Sacrifice which they represented),  how much more (see the logical connexion at the end)  shall the blood of (  the )  Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered HIMSELF (emphatic)  without fault to God (first,  when did He offer Himself? Clearly not, as Socinus, Schlichting, Grot., which last says, “Oblatio autem Christi hic intelligitur ea, quæ oblationi legali in adyto factæ respondet, ea autem est non oblatio in altari crucis facta, sed facta in adyto cælesti:” with whom Bleek agrees. For, as Delitzsch rightly observes, when Christ is anti-typically or by way of contrast compared with the  victims of the O. T. sacrifices, as the ritual word ἄμωμον here shews that He is, then beyond question the offering on the cross is intended, which corresponds to the slaying the victim and offering him on the altar. Besides which, the “oblatio in adyto” was but the completion of the “oblatio in altari,” and, when Christ’s self-offering is spoken of generally, we are to take the whole from the beginning, not merely that which was the last act of it. This will guide us to the meaning of the somewhat difficult words  διὰ πνεύματος αἰωνίου  : for thus do we read, and not ἁγίου , which appears to have originated in a mistaken view of the words. The animals which were offered, had no will, no πνεῦμα of their own, which could concur with the act of sacrifice. Theirs was a transitory life, of no potency or virtue. They were offered διὰ νόμου rather than διὰ any consent, or agency, or counteragency, of their own. But Christ offered Himself, with His own consent assisting and empowering the sacrifice. And what was that consent? the consent of what? of the spirit of a man? such a consent as yours or mine, given in and through our finite spirit whose acts are bounded by its own allotted space in time and its own responsibilities? No: but the consenting act of His divine Personality His πνεῦμα αἰώνιον , His Godhead, which from before time acquiesced in, and wrought with, the redemption-purpose of the Father. Thus we have πνεῦμα contrasted with σάρξ in speaking of our Lord, in several places: cf. Romans 1:3-4 ; 1 Timothy 3:16 ; 1 Peter 3:18 . This divine Personality it was, which in the Resurrection so completely ruled and absorbed His σάρξ : this, which causes Him to be spoken of by St. Paul in 1Co 15:45 as a πνεῦμα ζωοποιοῦν , and in 2 Corinthians 3:17 f. as absolutely τὸ πνεῦμα . Not however that any confusion hence arises in the distinction of the divine Persons: πνεῦμα αἰώνιον is not the Spirit of the Father dwelling in Christ, nor is it the Holy Spirit given without measure to Christ, but it is the divine Spirit of the Godhead which Christ Himself had and was in His inner Personality. And I conclude with Delitzsch as to the relevancy of such a clause here: the eternal spirit is absolute spirit, divine spirit, and thus self-conscious, laying down its own course purely of itself unbound by conditions, simply and entirely free: so that Christ’s offering of Himself διὰ πνεύματος αἰωνίου is, as such, a moral act of absolute worth, as Baumg., Von Gerlach, Ebrard, Lünem., al. “Jam vero,” says Seb. Schmidt, “cum hic Spiritus æternus adeoque infinitus sit, utique pondus meriti et satisfactionis, quod ab eodem spiritu est, æternum et infinitum est. Quod si æternum et infinitum sit, ne quidem infinita Dei justitia in eo aliquid desiderari potuit.” The διὰ is beautifully paraphrased by Œcolampadius, “per ardentissimam caritatem a Spiritu ejus æterno profectam.” See for the prep., in this connexion, Acts 1:2 ; Acts 11:28 ; Acts 21:4 . It is by virtue of so that His divine Spirit was the agent in the προσφορά , penetrating and acting on the Humanity.
	 ἄμωμος , as above observed, is (reff.) the regular word of the ritual in reference to the victims which must be without spot when offered. Therefore to understand it of the perfection of the glorified human nature of the ascended Saviour, as Schlichting and the Socinian interpreters, is clearly beside the meaning, and contrary to analogy.
	See many further details on this difficult passage in Bleek and Delitzsch),  purify our (the question of reading, ἡμῶν or ὑμῶν , is one not easy to settle. At the word καθαριεῖ we unfortunately lose the evidence of B, the MS. terminating there, and being completed by a later hand. From all analogy it would seem that we must infer ἡμῶν to have been its reading here. It is true, as Bl. and Delitzsch assert, that ὑμῶν has a more lively and emphatic aspect: “habet aliquid inexpectatum,” as Böhme: but I cannot bring myself for this purely subjective reason to desert the guidance of the best and oldest MSS., though their company is now weakened by the defect of its most important member)  conscience (our English word  conscience does not reach the fulness of συνείδησις , the  self-consciousness as regards God , the inner consciousness of relation to Him. This is, by the blood of Christ, shed in the power of the divine Spirit, thoroughly purified, freed from the terror of guilt, cleared from alienation from Him and from all selfish regards and carnal pretences, and rendered living and real as He is living and real)  from dead works (just as death was under the old law the fountain of ceremonial pollution, and any one by touching a dead body became unclean, so carnal works, having their origin in sin, with which death is bound up, pollute the conscience. They are like the touching of the dead body, rendering the man unclean in God’s sight, as not springing from life in Him: inducing decay and corruption in the spirit. See on ch. Hebrews 6:1 , and Chrys. there quoted. Here, the reference to the dead body can hardly be set aside, being more pointed than there, where I have rather advocated the general sense of νεκρός .
	The Writer does not here set forth  how this blood of Christ acts in purifying the conscience: it is not his aim now to speak of  our way of participation of its benefits, but merely of  its cleansing power itself)  in order to the serving (ministering to, which the unclean might not do in the ceremonial sanctuary, nor can the unclean do in heart and life)  the living God (God in His spiritual reality and absolute holiness: not a God concealed by veils and signs, but approached in His verity by the sanctified soul)?