 7 .]  but into the second (innermost, the Holy of holies)  once in the year (i. e. on the day of atonement, the 10th day of the 7th month: the same expression is used in reff. Exod. and Levit. The entrance took place,  on that day , twice at least, from Leviticus 16:12-16 ; the Mischna says, four (three?) times, Joma Hebrews 9:1 ; vii. 4. Much trouble has been spent by antiquarians on the question: see the whole treated in Bleek, if it be thought worth while: it may suffice here to say that the Writer follows the ordinary way of speaking among the Jews and ourselves, meaning by ‘once,’  on one occasion . No one would think, if I said I was in the habit of seeing a certain person but once in every year, of asking how long I spent in his company during that day, and how often I looked upon him. Cf. Philo, Leg. ad Cai. § 39, vol. ii. p. 591, εἰς ἃ ( ἄδυτα ) ἅπαξ τοῦ ἐνιαυτοῦ ὁ μέγας ἱερεὺς εἰσέρχεται τῇ νηστείᾳ λεγομένῃ μόνον ἐπιθυμιάσων . So ἅπαξ δι ʼ ἔτους , id. de Monarch. ii. 2, p. 223: ἅπαξ κατ ʼ ἐνιαυτόν , Jos. B. J. v. 5. 7: and 3Ma 1:11 )  the high priest alone, not without (see ch. Heb 7:20 )  blood, which he offers (see ch. Heb 8:3 )  on behalf of himself and the ignorances (sins of ignorance, see ch. Hebrews 5:2 ; cf. Philo, Plant. Noë, § 25, vol. i. p. 345, αἱ … θυσίαι … ὑπομιμνήσκουσαι τὰς ἑκάστων ἀγνοίας τε κ . διαμαρτίας . See Schweighäuser’s Lexicon Polybianum, where he gives as the sense of ἄγνοια , “peccatum, delictum, præsertim errore et per imprudentiam commissum:” giving numerous instances. But further on, he says, “Nonnunquam tamen de graviori culpa et deliberato crimine usurpatur:” giving also examples. And similarly under ἀγνοέω , “nude, peccare: πολεμεῖν τοῖς ἀγνοήσασι , bellum gerere cum eis qui peccarunt, deliquerunt, v. 11. 5: τὰ ἠγνοημένα , errata, peccata, xxxviii. 1. 5.” So that here the word may have a wider meaning than mere sins of ignorance)  of the people (it has been a question, whether ἑαυτοῦ can be taken as dependent on ἀγνοημάτων “on behalf of his own sins and those of the people.” So vulg. (“pro sua et populi ignorantia”), Luth., Calv. (vers.), Schlichting, Limborch (vers.), al.: but as above Syr., D-lat. (“pro se et populi delictis”), Faber Stap., Vatabl., Erasm. (vers.), Beza (vers.), Calov., Bengel, Schulz, Böhme, De Wette, al. And no doubt grammatically this latter is in strictness right: the other rendering requiring τῶν before ἑαυτοῦ . The question however in all such cases is not whether the sense would not be better expressed by a more elegant construction, but whether the N. T. dialect was likely to have expressed it without that more elegant construction. And here, though I prefer the more strictly grammatical rendering, I am by no means sure that the other is absolutely excluded. The parallel of ch. Hebrews 7:27 , πρότερον ὑπὲρ τῶν ἰδίων ἁμαρτιῶν , … ἔπειτα τῶν τοῦ λαοῦ , is very strong: and we have a similar irregularity of grammatical construction in 1 John 2:2 , ἱλασμὸς περὶ τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν ἡμῶν , οὐ περὶ ἡμετέρων δὲ μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ περὶ ὅλου τοῦ κόσμου ):