But I have all - Margin, “or, have received.” The phrase here is equivalent to, “I have received everything. I have all I want, and desire no more.” He was entirely satisfied. What they had sent to him is, of course, now unknown. It is sufficient to know, that it was of such a nature as to make his situation comfortable.I am full - I have enough, This is a strong expression, denoting that nothing was lacking.Having received of Epaphroditus - see the notes at Philippians 2:25.An odour of a sweet smell - This does not mean that it was such an odor to Paul, but to God. He regarded it as an offering which they had made to God himself; and he was persuaded that he would regard it as acceptable to him. They had doubtless made the offering, not merely from personal friendship for Paul, but because he was a minister of Christ, and from love for his cause; and Paul felt assured that this offering would be acceptable to him; compare Matthew 10:41-42. The word “odor” refers properly to the pleasant fragrance produced in the temple by the burning of incense; notes on Luke 1:9. On the meaning of the word rendered “a sweet smell,” - εὐωδία euōdia - see the notes at 2 Corinthians 2:15. The whole language here is taken from an act of worship; and the apostle regarded what he had received from the Philippians as in fact a thank-offering to God, and a presented with the spirit of true devotion to him. It was not, indeed, a formal act of worship; but it was acceptable to God as an expression of their regard for his cause.A sacrifice acceptable - Acceptable to God; compare Hebrews 13:16; notes, Romans 12:1.Well-pleasing to God - Because it evinced a regard for true religion. Hence, learn:(1) That kindness done to the ministers of the gospel is regarded as an acceptable offering to God.(2) That kindness to the servants of God in distress and want, is as well-pleasing to God as direct acts of worship.(3) That such acts of benevolence are evidences of attachment to the cause of religion, and are proofs of genuine piety; notes, Matthew 10:42.