 7 11. ] He takes them on their own ground. They had looked on his outward appearance and designated it as mean. Well then, he says: ‘  do ye regard outward appearance ? even on that ground I will shew you that I am an Apostle I will bear out the severity of my letters: I will demonstrate myself to be as much Christ’s, as those who vaunt themselves to be especially His.’ This rendering suits the context best, and keeps the sense of κατὰ πρόσωπον in 2 Corinthians 10:1 . The imperative rendering of Vulg., Ambrose, Theophyl., Billr., Rück., Olsh., De Wette, al., ‘  look at the things before your eyes ,’ is objectionable (Meyer), (1) from altering the meaning of κατὰ πρόσωπον : (2) because it gives too tame a sense for the energy of the passage: (3) because βλέπετε generally in such sentences, in Paul’s style, comes first, see 1 Corinthians 1:26 ; 1 Corinthians 10:18 ; Philippians 3:2 (3ce); Colossians 4:17 . Another way, is to take it as said without a question, but indicatively. So Chrys., Calvin, ‘Magni facitis alios qui magnis ampullis turgent, me, quia ostentatione et jactantia careo, despicitis.’ But in that case, surely some further intimation would have been given of such a sentiment than merely these words, the break after which, without any connecting particle, would thus be exceedingly harsh. Others again fancifully mix up with κατὰ πρόσωπ . the supposed characteristics of the (?)  Christ-party , the having seen Christ in the flesh: the being headed by James the brother of the Lord, &c. &c.
	 εἴ τις .…]  If any one believes himself to belong to Christ (lit. ‘  trusts in himself to belong .’
	From 1 Corinthians 1:12 , it certainly was one line taken by the adversaries of the Apostle to boast of a nearer connexion with, a more direct obedience to, Christ, in contradistinction to Paul: and to this mind among them he here alludes),  let him reckon this again out of his own mind (i.e. let him think afresh, and come to a conclusion obvious to any one’s common sense ( ἀφ ʼ ἑαυτοῦ ) and not requiring any extraneous help to arrive at it),  that as he is Christ’s, so also are we (that whatever intimate connexion with or close service of Christ he professes, such, and no less, is mine).