 12. ] disclaims resemblance to those false teachers who made  themselves their only standard.  For we do not venture (ironical; “dum dicit quod non faciat, notat quid isti faciant.” Bengel)  to number ourselves with ( συναριθμῆσαι , Theophy., Œcum., ‘inserere,’ Vulg.: see examples of this usage, with εἰς principally, but also with μετά and ἐπί w. gen, in Wetst.),  or compare ourselves with ( συγκρίνειν is properly, in classical Greek, ‘  to compound ,’ or ‘  unite :’ but in later Greek,  to compare :’ ὁ συγκριτικὸς τρόπας , with the grammarians, is the  comparative degree )  some of those who commend themselves (the charge made against  him , ἑαυτὸν συνιστάνει , see ch. 2 Corinthians 3:1 ; 2 Corinthians 5:12 , he makes as a true one against the false teachers);  but (they), themselves measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves with themselves, are not wise . The renderings are  very various . Chrys. al., read συνιοῦσιν , and make it a particip., τουτέστι , μὴ αἰσθανομένοις πῶς εἰσι καταγέλαστοι τοιαῦτα ἀλαζονευόμενοι , p. 590: and see again below. Others, reading the same, take it rightly, as = συνιᾶσιν , but make μετροῦντες , &c., the object of συνιοῦσιν : ‘  know not that they are measuring ,’ &c.: but the corresponding sentence, ἡμεῖς δὲ κ . τ . λ ., shews that this sense would be irrelevant; for the Apostle does not oppose their  ignorance of their foolish estimate of themselves to his own practice, but that foolish estimate itself.
	Others again, as Emmerling and Olshausen, take ἀλλὰ συνιοῦσιν (or - ᾶσιν ) to apply to the  Apostle himself , as contrasted with the τινές : ‘  We do not venture, &c., but we ourselves measure (supply ἐσμεν , ‘are in the habit of measuring’)  ourselves by ourselves (i.e. as 2 Corinthians 10:18 , by what the Lord has really made us to be),  and compare ourselves with ourselves, foolish as we are (reputed to be: συνιοῦσιν being a participle).  But foolish we are not: we will not boast ourselves,’ &c .
	But (1) this rendering would absolutely require the article before οὐ συνιοῦσιν , which, anarthrous, would imply, not an imputation, but  the fact : (2) the mode of expression ( αὐτοὶ ἐν ἑαυτοῖς ἑαυτ . μετρ .) would be a most extraordinary one to convey the meaning supposed: and (3) the meaning itself would be irrelevant when obtained. Another variety of this rendering is to take (as Bos, Schrader, al.) ἑαυτοῖς , οὐ συνιοῦσιν , = ἑαυτοῖς , οὐ  τοῖς συνιοῦσιν with ourselves, not with the wise: which is also inadmissible.
	Others again (see var. read.) would omit οὐ συνιᾶσιν (or - οῦσιν )· ἡμεῖς δέ , which has been an evident correction, on the supposition that ἀλλὰ αὐτοὶ κ . τ . λ . belonged to  the Apostle , to expunge words so much in the way of such an interpretation.
	I may observe that much of the difficulty has arisen from taking αὐτοί with ἀλλά as the subject to οὐ συνιᾶσιν , whereas it belongs to what follows, ἀλλὰ αὐτοὶ ἐν ἑαυτ . ἑαυτ . μετρ . κ . τ . λ ., as in the version given above: the subject of συνιᾶσιν being to be supplied, and the construction being an inaccurate one. Calvin well illustrates the  sense , by the reputation which any moderately learned man gained among the ignorant monks of his day “Si quis tenuem modo gustum elegantioris literaturæ habeat, … spargitur de eo mirabilis fama, adoratur inter sodales.… Inde præcipue monachis insolentissimus ille fastus quod se metiuntur ex seipsis: quum in eorum claustris nihil sit præter barbariem, illic nihil mirum, si regnet luscus inter cæcos. Tales erant isti Pauli æmuli: sibi enim intus plaudebant, non considerantes quibus virtutibus constaret vera laus, quantumque a Pauli et similium excellentia distarent.”