 45, 46. ] SIXTH PARABLE. THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE. In this parable our Lord sets before us, that although in ordinary cases of finding ‘the truth as it is in Jesus,’ the buying of the field is the necessary prelude to becoming duly and properly possessed of it; yet there are cases, and those of a nobler kind, where such condition is not necessary. We have here a  merchantman , one whose business it is,  on the search for goodly pearls; i.e. a man who intellectually and spiritually is a seeker of truth of the highest kind. “He whom this pursuit occupies, is a merchantman; i.e. one trained, as well as devoted, to business. The search is therefore determinate, discriminate, unremitting. This case then corresponds to such Christians only as from youth have been trained up in the way which they should go. In these alone can be the settled habits, the effectual self-direction, the convergence to one point of all the powers and tendencies of the soul, which are indicated by the illustration.” (Knox’s Remains, i. 460.) But as the same writer goes on to observe, even here there is  a discovery , at a particular time. The person has been seeking, and finding, goodly pearls; what is true, honest, just, pure, lovely, and of good report: but at last he finds  one pearl of great price the efficacious principle of inward and spiritual life. We hear of no emotion, no great joy of heart, as before; but the same decision of conduct; he sells all and buys it. He chooses vital Christianity, at whatever cost, for his portion. But here is no  field . The pearl is bought pure by itself. It is found, not unexpectedly in the course of outward ordinances, with which therefore it would become to the finder inseparably bound up, but by diligent search, spiritual and immediate, in its highest and purest form. Trench instances (Parables, p. 100) Nathanael and the Samaritan woman as examples of the finders without seeking; Augustine, as related in his Confessions (we might add St. Paul, see Php 3:7 ), of the diligent seeker and finder. Compare with this parable Proverbs 2:3-9 , and to see what kind of buying is  not meant, Isaiah 55:1 ; ch. Matthew 25:9-10 . Also see Revelation 3:18 .