 55.   οἱ ἀδελφοὶ αὐτοῦ ] It is an enquiry of much interest and some difficulty, who these were. After long examination of the evidence on the subject, I believe that the truth will best be attained by disencumbering the mind in the first place of all  à priori considerations , and  traditions (which last are very inconsistent and uncertain), and fixing the attention on the  simple testimony of Scripture itself . I will trace the ἀδελφοὶ αὐτοῦ or ἀδ . κυρίου through the various mentions of them in the N.T., and then state the result; placing at the end of the note the principal traditions on the subject, and the difficulties attending them. (I) The expression οἱ ἀδ . αὐτοῦ occurs  nine times in the Gospels, and  once in the Acts. Of these the  three first are in the narratives of the coming of His mother and brethren to speak with Him, Matthew 12:46 ; Mark 3:31 ; Luke 8:19 ; the  two next are the present passage and its [130] in Mark 6:3 , where they are mentioned in connexion with His mother and sisters; the  four others are in John 2:12 ; John 7:3 ; John 7:5 ; John 7:10 , in the  first of which He and his mother and brethren and disciples are related to have gone down to Capernaum: and in the  three last His brethren are introduced as urging Him to shew Himself to the world, and it is stated that they did not believe on Him. The  last is in Acts 1:14 , where we read that the Apostles ‘continued in prayer and supplication with the women, and with Mary the mother of Jesus,  and with his brethren .’ In another place, 1 Corinthians 9:5 , Paul mentions οἱ λοιποὶ ἀπόστολοι , καὶ  οἱ ἀδ  .   τ  .   κυρίου  , κ . Κηφᾶς . Such are all the places where the meaning is  undoubted , that persons called, and being in some usual sense,  brethren of the Lord , are mentioned. (Besides these the Lord Himself uses the words οἱ ἀδελφοί μου Matthew 28:10 ; John 20:17 , but apparently with a wider meaning, including at least the eleven Apostles in the term, as He does in Matthew 12:49 [131] .) Now I would observe ( α ) that in all the mentions of them in the Gospels, except those in John 7:1-53 , they are  in connexion with His mother: the same being the case in Acts 1:14 . ( β ) That it is no where asserted or implied that any of them were  of the number of the twelve; but from John 7:5 , following upon John 6:70 (by μετὰ ταῦτα Mat 7:1 ), they are  excluded from that number . John would certainly not have used the words οὐδὲ γὰρ οἱ ἀδ . αὐτ . ἐπίστ . εἰς αὐτόν , had  any of them believed on Him at that time (see this substantiated in note ad loc.): and again in Acts 1:14 , by being mentioned after the Apostles have been enumerated by name, and after the mother of Jesus, they are indicated at that time also to have been  separate from the twelve , although  then certainly believing on Him. ( γ ) Their  names , as stated here and in Mark 6:3 , were JACOB, JOSEPH (or JOSES), SIMON, and JUDAS, all of them among the commonest of Jewish names. Of JOSEPH (or JOSES; certainly not the Joseph Barsabas Justus of Acts 1:23 ; see ib. Act 1:21 ) and SIMON (not Simon Cananæus or Zelotes: see above)  we know from Scripture nothing . Of the  two others we have the following traces ( δ ) JACOB (JAMES) appears in the apostolic narrative as ὁ ἀδελφὸς τοῦ κυρίου , Galatians 1:19 ; he is there called an  apostle . This however determines nothing as to his having been among  the twelve (which is a very different matter); for  Paul and Barnabas are called apostles , Acts 14:1-28 :(4) 14, and Paul always calls himself such. See also Rom 16:7 ; 1Th 2:7 compared with Matthew 1:1 . That he is identical with the James of Galatians 2:9 , whom Paul mentions with Cephas and John as having given him and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, fourteen years after the visit related ib. Galatians 1:19 , does not appear for certain, but has been pretty generally assumed. (See this whole subject discussed in the prolegg. to the Epistle of James.) ( ε ) The JUDE who has left an epistle, and was brother of James, not only does not call himself an apostle, Matthew 13:1 (as neither does James, nor indeed John himself, so that this cannot be urged), but in Matthew 13:17 (see note there) seems to draw a distinction between himself and the Apostles. Whether this indicate that the James and Jude, the authors of the Epistles, were two of these ἀδελφοὶ τ . κυρίου , is uncertain; but it may at least be mentioned in the course of our enquiry.
	 [130] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [131] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	I shall now state the result of that enquiry, which has been based on Scripture testimony  only . (1) That there were  four persons known as οἱ ἀδ . αὐτοῦ  or τ . κυρίου , NOT OF THE NUMBER OF THE TWELVE. (2) That these persons are found in all places (with the above exception) where their names occur in the Gospels,  in immediate connexion with Mary, the mother of the Lord . (It is a strange phænomenon in argument, that it should have been maintained by an orthodox writer, that my inference from this  proves too much , because Joseph is here introduced as His father: as if a mistake of the Jews with regard to a supernatural fact, which they could not know, invalidated their cognizance of a natural fact which they knew full well.) (3) That not a word is any where dropped to prevent us from inferring that the ἀδελφοί and ἀδελφαὶ αὐτοῦ were His relations  in the same literal sense as we know ἡ μήτηρ αὐτοῦ to have been; but that His own saying, where He distinguishes His relations according to the flesh from His disciples (ch. Matthew 12:50 [132] ), seems to  sanction that inference . (4) That nothing is said from which it can be inferred whether Joseph had been married before he appears in the Gospel history; or again, whether these ἀδ . were, according to the flesh, older or younger than our Lord. (5) That the silence of the Scripture narrative leaves it free for Christians to believe these to have been  real (younger)  brethren and sisters of our Lord, without incurring any imputation of unsoundness of belief as to His miraculous conception . That such an imputation has been cast, is no credit to the logical correctness of those who have made it, who set down that, because this view  has been taken by impugners of the great Truth just mentioned,  therefore , it eventually leads, or may fairly be used, towards the denial of it (see Dr. Mill on the Brethren of our Lord, p. 224); for no attempt is made to shew its connexion with such a conclusion. The fact is, that the two matters, the  miraculous conception of the Lord Jesus by the Holy Ghost, and  the subsequent virginity of His Mother, are ESSENTIALLY AND ENTIRELY DISTINCT; see note on Matthew 1:25 ; see also, respecting a supposed difficulty attending this view, note on John 19:27 . (II) I will now state the principal  traditionary views respecting the brethren of the Lord. (1) That they were  all sons of Alphæus (or Clopas)  and Mary the sister of the mother of our Lord; and so  cousins of Jesus, and called agreeably to Jewish usage  His brothers .
	 [132] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	This is the view taken in the remarkable fragment of Papias, quoted in Dr. Mill, p. 238, adopted by Jerome (cont. Helvidium 13, vol. ii. p. 219), and very generally received in ancient and modern times. But it seems to me that a comparison of the Scripture testimonies cited above will prove it untenable. One at least of the sons of this Alphæus was an apostle,  of the number of the twelve , viz. Ἰάκωβος ὁ τοῦ Ἀλφαίου (see all the lists, on ch. Mat 10:3 ); which (see above) would  exclude him from the number of the brethren of the Lord . But even if  one of the four could be thus detached (which, from John 7:5 , I cannot believe), it is generally assumed that Ἰούδας Ἰακώβου (see Luke’s two lists as above) is Jude the  brother of James; and if so, this would be  another son of Alphæus, and another subtraction from the number who did not believe on Him. Again Matthew (see note on Mat 9:9 ), if identical with Levi ( Mar 2:14 ), was  another son of Alphæus: which would make a fifth brother, and leave therefore,  out of five, three believing on Him at the time when it was said οὐδὲ γὰρ οἱ ἀδ .… κ . τ . λ . This view besides labours under the difficulty arising from these brethren accompanying and being found in connexion with Mary the mother of our Lord, whereas throughout that time  their own mother was living . The way in which the assertors of this view explain John 7:5 , is either by supposing that all the brethren are not  there implied, or that all are not  here mentioned; both suppositions, it seems to me, very unlikely (compare e.g. John’s minute accuracy where an exception was to be made, ch. Mat 6:23-24 ). (2) That they were  children of Joseph by a former marriage (or even by a later one with Mary wife of Clopas, to raise up seed to his dead  brother , as Clopas is said to have been: but this needs no refutation). This view was taken by several early Fathers, e.g. Hilary, Epiphanius, and mentioned by Origen, who (Winer, Realwörterbuch, i. p. 663) says respecting it, οἱ ταῦτα λέγοντες τὸ ἀξίωμα τῆς Μαρίας ἐν παρθενίᾳ τηρεῖν μέχρι τέλους βούλονται . This however, while  by no means impossible , and in some respects agreeing with the  apparent position of these brothers as older (according to the flesh) than the Lord ( Joh 7:3 ), has no countenance whatever in Scripture, either in their being called sons of any other woman, or in any distinct mention of Joseph as their father, which surely in this case would be required. (III) On the  à priori considerations which have influenced opinions on this matter, see note on Matthew 1:25 ; and on the  traditional literature , see the tract of Professor Mill on the Brethren of our Lord. See also Winer, Realwörterbuch, Art.  Jesus , § 3. Greswell, Dissertations, vol. ii. Diss. iii. Blom, Disputatio Theologica de τ . ἀδ . τ . κ . Lug. Bat. 1839. Wieseler, Stud. und Kritiken, 1842, i. 96 ff. (these two last I have not seen); also, a letter on this my note, referred to above under I. 2, in the Journal of Sacred Literature for July, 1855. This letter is too much based on  à priori considerations, but contains some valuable suggestions on this confessedly difficult question.
	Neander, Leben J. p. 48, brings out the importance of the view which I have above, under (I), endeavoured to justify, as shewing that the account of the miraculous conception is  not mythical , in which case all would have been arranged to suit the views of virginity from which it had arisen, but  strictly historical , found as it is with no such arrangements or limitations.