 33. ] FOURTH PARABLE. THE LEAVEN. Luke 13:20-21 . Difficulties have been raised as to the interpretation of this parable which do not seem to belong to it. It has been questioned whether  ζύμη must not be taken in the sense in which it so often occurs in Scripture, as symbolic of  pollution and  corruption . See Exodus 12:15 , and other enactments of the kind, passim in the law; and ch. Mat 16:6 : 1 Corinthians 5:6-7 . And some few have taken it thus, and explained the parable of the  progress of corruption and deterioration in the outward visible Church. But then, how is it said that the  Kingdom of Heaven is like this leaven? For the construction is not the same as in Matthew 13:24 , where the similitude is to the  whole course of things related , but answers to κόκκῳ σινάπεως , ὃν λαβὼν ἄνθ .: so ζύμῃ , ἣν λαβοῦσα γυνή . Again, if the progress of the Kingdom of Heaven be  towards corruption, till the whole is corrupted , surely there is an end of all the blessings and healing influence of the Gospel on the world. It will be seen that such an interpretation cannot for a moment stand, on its  own ground; but much less when we connect it with the parable preceding. The two are intimately related.  That was of the  inherent self-developing power of the Kingdom of Heaven as a seed containing in itself the principle of expansion;  this , of the  power which it possesses of penetrating and assimilating a foreign mass , till all be taken up into it. And the comparison is not only to the  power but to the  effect of leaven also, which has its  good as well as its bad side, and for that good is used: viz. to make wholesome and fit for use that which would otherwise be heavy and insalubrious. Another striking point of comparison is in the fact that leaven, as used ordinarily, is a  piece of the leavened loaf put amongst the new dough ( τὸ ζυμωθὲν ἅπαξ ζύμη γίνεται τῷ λοιπῷ πάλιν . Chrys. Hom. xlvi. 2, p. 484) just as the Kingdom of Heaven is the renewal of humanity by the righteous Man Christ Jesus.
	The Parable, like the last, has its  general and its  individual application: (1) in the penetrating of the  whole mass of humanity , by degrees, by the influence of the Spirit of God, so strikingly witnessed in the earlier ages by the dropping of heathen customs and worship: in modern times more gradually and secretly advancing, but still to be plainly seen in the various abandonments of criminal and unholy practices (as e.g. in our own time of slavery and duelling, and the increasing abhorrence of war among Christian men), and without doubt in the end to be signally and universally manifested. But this effect again is not to be traced in the establishment or history of so-called Churches, but in the hidden advancement, without observation, of that deep leavening power which works irrespective of human forms and systems. (2) In the transforming power of the ‘new leaven’ on the whole being of individuals. “In fact the Parable does nothing less than set forth to us the mystery of regeneration, both in its first act, which can be but once, as the leaven is but once hidden; and also in the consequent (subsequent?) renewal by the Holy Spirit, which, as the ulterior working of the leaven, is continual and progressive.” (Trench, p. 97.) Some have contended for this as the sole application of the parable; but not, I think, rightly.
	As to whether the  γυνή has any especial meaning, (though I am more and more convinced that such considerations are not always to be passed by as nugatory,) it will hardly be of much consequence here to enquire, seeing that γυναῖκες σιτοποιοί would be every where a matter of course.
	 ἐγκρύπτω has given rise to a technical word ἐγκρυφίας , signifying a  leavened cake (which however, Passow, Lex. explains to be a cake  baked under hot ashes , thus applying the ἐγκρύπτω differently: cf. ref. Ezek.). See reff.
	 σάτον  , סְאָה (Aram. סָאתָא ), = the third part of an ephah = μόδιον καὶ ἥμισυ Ἰταλικόν , Jos. Antt. ix. 4. 5. Three of these, an ephah, appears to have been the usual quantity prepared for a baking: see Genesis 18:6 ; Judges 6:19 ; 1 Samuel 1:24 . This being the case, we need not perhaps seek for any symbolical interpretation: though Olsh.’s hint that the  body, soul , and  spirit may perhaps be here intended can hardly but occur to us, and Stier’s, that “of the  three sons of Noah was the whole earth overspread,” is worth recording.