 19. ] In Luke we have an important preliminary declaration, implied indeed here also:  ὁ σπόρος ἐστὶν ὁ λόγος τοῦ θεοῦ  . This  word is in this parable especially meant of the word  preached , though the word  written is not excluded: nor the word  unwritten the providences and judgments, and even the creation, of God. (See Romans 10:17-18 .) The similitude in this parable is alluded to in 1 Peter 1:23 ; James 1:21 .
	The sower is first the Son of Man ( Mat 13:37 ), then His ministers and servants ( 1Co 3:6 ) to the end. He sows over all the field, unlikely as well as likely places; and commands His sowers to do the same, Mark 16:15 . Some, Stier says, (Reden Jesu, ii. 76, Exodus 2:0 ,) have objected to the parable a want of truthful correspondence to reality, because sowers do not thus waste their seed by scattering it where it is not likely to grow; but, as he rightly answers, the simple idea of the parable must be borne in mind, and its limits not transgressed ‘a sower went out  to sow ’ his SOWING sowing over all places, is the idea of the parable. We see him only as a  sower , not as an economist. The parable is not about  Him , but about the  seed and  what happens to it . He is the fit representative τοῦ διδόντος θεοῦ πᾶσιν ἁπλῶς καὶ μὴ ὀνειδίζοντος , James 1:5 .
	 παντὸς κ . τ . λ .] an anacoluthon, to throw the emphasis on παντὸς κ . τ . λ ., for ὁ πονηρὸς … κ . ἁρπάζει τὸ ἐσπ . ἐν τῇ καρδ . παντὸς κ . τ . λ .
	 καὶ μὴ συνιέντος is peculiar to Matthew, and very important; as in Mark and Luke this first class of hearers are without any certain index to denote them. The  reason of μὴ συνιέντος is clearly set forth by the parable: the heart is hardened, trodden down; the seed cannot penetrate.
	 ὁ πονηρὸς = ὁ σατανᾶς (Mark, who also inserts εὐθύς ), = ὁ διάβολος (Luke). The parable itself is here most satisfactory as to the  manner in which the Evil One proceeds. By fowls of the air passing thoughts and desires, which seem insignificant and even innocent does Satan do his work, and rob the heart of the precious seed. Luke adds the purpose of Satan in taking away the word: ἵνα μὴ πιστεύσαντες σωθῶσιν .
	 ὁ  …   σπαρείς : not ‘  he that received seed by the way side ,’ but  he that was sown by the way side. This is not a confusion of similitudes, no ‘primary and secondary interpretation’ of σπόρος , but the deep truth, both of nature and of grace. The seed sown springing up in the earth,  becomes the plant , and bears the fruit, or fails of bearing it; it is therefore the representative, when sown, of the individuals of whom the discourse is. And though in this first case it does not spring up, yet the same form of speech is kept up: throughout they are οἱ σπαρέντες , as, when the question of bearing fruit comes, they must be. We are said to be ἀναγεγεννημένοι διὰ λόγου ζῶντος θεοῦ , 1 Peter 1:23 . It takes us up into itself, as the seed the earth, and we become a new plant, a καινὴ κτίσις : cf. also below, Matthew 13:38 , τὸ δὲ καλὸν σπέρμα ,  οὗτοί εἰσιν κ . τ . λ .