 22. ] In this  third sort,  all as regards the soil is well; the seed goes deep, the plant springs up; all is as in the next case, with but one exception, and that,  the bearing of fruit  ἄκαρπος γίνεται = οὐ τελεσφοροῦσι Luke. And this because the seeds or roots of thorns are in, and are suffered to spring up in, the heart, and to overwhelm the plant. There is a divided will, a half-service ( μέριμνα from μερίζω , see on ch. Mat 6:25 ) which ever ends in the prevalence of evil over good. This class is not confined to the  rich: πλοῦτος in Scripture is not riches  absolutely , as possessed, but riches  relatively , as estimated by the desire and value for them. Mark adds καὶ αἱ περὶ τὰ λοιπὰ ἐπιθυμίαι , viz. the τὰ λοιπά which shall be added to us if we seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness. The identity of the  seeds sown with the individuals of these classes, as maintained above, is strikingly shewn in Luke here: τὸ δὲ εἰς τὰς ἀκάνθας πεσόν ,  οὗτοί εἰσιν οἱ ἀκούσαντες κ . τ . λ . (Matthew 8:14 .) We may notice: (I) That there is in these three classes a PROGRESS, and that a  threefold one: (1) in TIME: the first receives a hindrance  at the very outset: the seed never springs up: the second  after it has sprung up , but  soon after: the third  when it has entered, sprung up, and come to maturity: or  while it is so  coming . (2) in APPARENT DEGREE. The climax is  apparently from  bad to  better; the first  understand not: the second  understand and feel: the third  understand, feel, and practise . But also (3) in REAL DEGREE, from  bad to  worse . Less awful is the state of those who  understand not the word and  lose it immediately , than that of those who  feel it, receive it with joy , and in time of trial  fall away: less awful again this last, than that of those who  understand, feel, and practise , but are  fruitless and impure .
	It has been noticed also that the first is more the fault of  careless inattentive CHILDHOOD; the second of  ardent shallow YOUTH; the third of  worldly self-seeking AGE. (II) That these classes do  not EXCLUDE  one another . They are great general divisions, the outer circles of which fall into one another, as they very likely might in the field itself, in their different combinations.