 38. ] This verse has been variously interpreted, notwithstanding that its statements are so plain. The consideration of it will lead us into that of the general nature and place of the parable itself.  The field is the world; if understood of the Church, then the Church only as  commensurate with the world , πορευθέντες εἰς  τὸν κόσμον ἅπαντα κηρύξατε τὸ εὐαγγέλιον πάσῃ τῇ κτίσει ( Mar 16:15 ); THE CHURCH  standing for THE WORLD, not, the  world for the  Church . (This latter view, Stier says, Augustine upholds against the Donatists: but I cannot find it in his Ep. contra Donatistas (vol. ix.), where he several times plainly asserts the field to be commensurate with the world, and the Church to be the ‘triticum inter zizania.’) And the parable has, like the former ones, its various references to various counter-workings of the Evil One against the grace of God. Its two principal references are, (1) to  the whole history of the world from beginning to end; the coming of sin into the world by the malice of the devil, the mixed state of mankind, notwithstanding the development of God’s purposes by the dispensations of grace, and the final separation of the good and evil at the end. The very declaration ‘the harvest is the  end of the world’ suggests the original sowing as the  beginning of it. Yet this sowing is not in the fact, as in the parable,  one only , but repeated again and again.
	In the parable the Lord gathers as it were the whole human race into  one lifetime , as they will be gathered in one harvest, and sets that forth as simultaneous, which has been scattered over the ages of time. But (2) as applying principally to the βασ . τ . οὐρ . which lay in the future and began with the Lord’s incarnation, the parable sets forth to us  the universal sowing of GOOD SEED  by the Gospel: it sows  no bad seed: all this is done by the enemy, and further we may not enquire. Soon, even as soon as Act 5:1-42 in the history of the Church, did the tares begin to appear; and in remarkable coincidence with the wheat bringing forth fruit (see Act 4:32-37 ). Again, see Acts 13:10 , where Paul calls Elymas by the very name υἱὸς διαβόλου . And ever since, the same has been the case; throughout the whole world, where the Son of Man sows good seed, the Enemy sows tares. And  it is not the office , however much it may be the desire, of the servants of the householder, the labourers in His field, to  collect or  root up these tares, to put them out of the world literally, or of the Church spiritually (save in some few exceptional cases, such as that in Act 5:1-42 );  this is reserved for another time and for other hands , for the  harvest , the  end; for the  reapers , the  angels . (3) It is also most important to notice that, as the Lord here gathers up ages into one season of seed time and harvest, so He also gathers up the various changes of human character and shiftings of human will into  two distinct classes . We are not to suppose that the wheat can never become tares, or the tares wheat: this would be to contradict the purpose of Him who willeth not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should be converted and live; and this gracious purpose shines through the command ἄφετε συναυξάνεσθαι ἀμφότερα let time be given (as above) for the  leaven to work . As in the parable of the sower, the various classes were the  concentrations of various dispositions , all of which are frequently found in one and the same individual, so here the line of demarcation between wheat and tares, so fixed and impassable  at last , is,  during the probation time , the time of συναύξησις ,  not yet determined by Him who  will have all to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth . In the very first example, that of our first parents, the good seed degenerated, but their restoration and renewal was implied in the promises made to them, and indeed in their very punishment itself; and we their progeny are by nature the children of wrath, till renewed by the same grace. The parable is delivered by the Lord as  knowing all things , and  describing by the final result; and gives no countenance whatever to predestinarian error. (4) The parable has an historical importance, having been much in the mouths and writings of the Donatists, who, maintaining that the Church is a perfectly holy congregation, denied the applicability of this Scripture to convict them of error, seeing that it is spoken not of the Church but of the world: missing the deeper truth which would have led them to see that, after all, the world  is the Church , only overrun by these very tares.
	 τὸ δὲ καλὸν σπ  .,   οὗτοί εἰσιν strikingly sets forth again the identity of the seed, in its growth, with those who are the  plants: see above on Matthew 13:19 .
	 οἱ υἱοὶ τ  .   βασ  . ] not in the same sense as in ch. Matthew 8:12 , SONS  there , by covenant and external privilege:  here , by the effectual grace of adoption: the KINGDOM,  there , in mere paradigm, on this imperfect earth:  here , in its true accomplishment. in the new heavens and earth wherein dwelleth righteousness: but in their state among the tares, waiting for the manifestation of the sons of God.