 38.   Ἰησοῦν τ  .   ἀπὸ Ναζ  . ] The  personal subject of the γενόμενον ῥῆμα , q. d. ‘Ye know the subject which was preached … viz. Jesus of Nazareth.’
	 ὡς ἔχρ  .   αὐτ  . ]  how that God anointed him …, not as Kuin. and Kypke, ‘how that God anointed Jesus of N.,’ taking αὐτόν as redundant by a Hebraism. See a construction very similar in Luke 24:19-20 .
	The fact of the anointing with the Holy Spirit, in His baptism by John, was the historical opening of the ministry of Jesus: this anointing however was not His  first unction with the Spirit, but only symbolic of that which He had in His incarnation: so Cyril in Johan. lib. xi. vol. vii. p. 993, οὐ δήπου πάλιν ἐκεῖνό φαμεν ὅτι τότε γέγονεν ἅγιος ὁ κατὰ σάρκα χριστός , ὅτε τὸ πνεῦμα τεθέαται καταβαῖνον ὁ βαπτιστής · ἅγιος γὰρ ἦν καὶ ἐν ἐμβρύῳ καὶ μήτρᾳ … ἀλλὰ δέδοται μὲν εἰς σημεῖον τῷ βαπτιστῇ τὸ θέαμα : which unction abode upon Him, John 1:32-33 , and is alleged here as the continuing anointing which was upon Him from God.
	Stier well remarks, how entirely all personal address to the hearers and all doctrinal announcements are thrown into the background in this speech, and the  Person and Work and Office of Christ put forward as the sole subject of apostolic preaching.
	 καταδυναστ  . ] Subdued, so that he is their δυνάστς , and this power used for their oppression. Here, it alludes to physical oppression by disease (see Luk 13:16 ) and possession: in 2 Timothy 2:26 , a very similar description is given of those who are  spiritually bound by the devil.
	 ὁ θεὸς ἦν μετ  ʼ   αὐτ  . ] So Nicodemus had spoken, John 3:2 ; and probably Peter here used the words as well known and indicative of the presence of divine power and co-operation (see Jdg 6:16 ): beginning as he does with the outer and lower circle of the things regarding Christ, as they would be matter of observation and inference to his  hearers , and gradually ascending to those higher truths regarding His Person and Office, which were matter of  apostolic testimony and demonstration from Scripture, His resurrection ( Act 10:40 ), His being appointed Judge of living and dead ( Act 10:42 ), and the predestined Author of salvation to all who believe on Him ( Act 10:43 ).