 36.   τὸν λόγον ] The construction is very difficult. Several ways have been proposed of connecting and rendering this accusative. (1) Erasm., Wolf, Heinrichs, Kuin., &c., τὸν λόγον with οἴδατε , and understand τὸ γεν . ῥῆμ . κ . τ . λ . as in apposition with it. “  The word which , &c.,  ye know, viz. the γεν . ῥ .” But this immediate connexion of λόγ . and οἴδ . is hardly consistent with the interruption of the sense by οὗτος … κύριος . (2) Meyer, and Winer, edn. 6, § 62. 3 end, adopt virtually the same construction, but understand ὑμ . οἴδ . to be a taking up of the sense which was broken by (in this case) the  two parentheses εὐαγγ … χριστοῦ , and οὗτος … κύριος . This also is the rendering of E. V. But it does not sufficiently account for the two clauses parenthesized. Besides, it is an objection to both these, that the hearers  did not know the λόγος ‘noverant auditores historiam de qua mox, non item rationes interiores, de quibus hoc versu.’ Bengel. (3) Rosenm. and others  understand  κατά , ‘secundum eam doctrinam quam Deus tradi jussit Israelitis,’ or (4) take it as an accusativus pendens, ‘ad sermonem filiis Israel missum quod attinet’.… But an accusative is never found thus standing alone, unless there be an anacoluthon, which (3) precludes, and which would, if assumed in (4), give us a construction of unexampled harshness. (5) Grot. and Beza take τὸν λόγον ὅν , for ὃν λόγον ‘quem nuncium,’ justifying it by Matthew 21:42 , and so nearly (6) Kypke, ‘verbum quod misit … illud in omnes habet potestatem,’ a rendering altogether out of all N. T. analogy, as is also (7) that of Heinsius, who understands λόγος as personal, ‘Verbum quod misit Deus, omnium est Dominus,’ a usage confined in the N. T. to the writings of St. John, and, even if admissible, most harsh and improbable here. (8) I agree in the main with De Wette, who joins τὸν λόγον with καταλαμβάνομαι , and regards Act 10:36 as exegetic of ὅτι … δεκτὸς αὐτῷ ἐστι .  Of a truth I perceive , &c.… (and recognize this as)  the word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace (see reff.)  through Jesus Christ : (then, for the first time, ἐπ ʼ ἀληθείας καταλαμβανόμενος  this also , on the mention of Jesus Christ, he adds οὗτός ἐστιν  πάντων κύριος ,)  He is Lord of ALL MEN; with a strong emphasis on πάντων . I the more incline to this, the simplest and most forcible rendering, from observing that so far from ὑμεῖς οἴδατε being (Meyer’s objection) a harsh beginning to a new sentence, it is the  very form in which Peter began his address to them Acts 10:28 , ὑμεῖς ἐπίστασθε , &c.: and, as there it answers to κἀμοί , so here also ( Act 10:39 ) to καὶ ἡμεῖς .
	 διὰ Ἰης  .   χρ  . belongs to εὐαγγελ ., not to εἰρήνην .