 3 .]  For (follows on τὸν ἐπίλοιπον χρόνον : “I say, the rest of the time, for the past time surely” &c.)  sufficient is the past time (“ μείωσις . Nam ne pristina quidem tempora debuere peccatis teri. Fastidium peccati apud resipiscentes.” Bengel)  to have wrought out (  κατεργάζομαι cannot always be pressed in the sense of “to work out to an end,” as distinguished from ἐργάζομαι : but this sense may fairly be insisted on here. The perf. implies that the course is closed and done, and looked back on as a standing and accomplished fact)  the will of the Gentiles (that which the Gentiles βούλονται , would have you do. In ref. Rom. it is used of God. The N. T. line of demarcation between θέλω and βούλομαι appears to be but slender: and slenderer still that between their derivatives. We may perhaps say here, that the θέλημα , used of God, carries with it more of authority and “  willing ,” βούλημα , used of man, more of persuasion, and wishing (cf. 1Ti 6:9 ): so that the βούλημα is that which we may be overpersuaded into following, the θέλημα that which we are bound to obey.  τῶν ἐθνῶν , used not of any national distinction, but of heathens as distinguished from Christians, shews that the majority of the readers of the Epistle had been Gentiles, among these ἔθνη , themselves. Cf. a very similar passage in Isocr. Panegyr. p. 75 D: ἄξιον δ ʼ ἐπὶ τῆς νῦν ἡλικίας ποιήσασθαι τὴν στρατείαν , ἵν ʼ οἱ τῶν συμφορῶν κοινωνήσαντες , οὗτοι καὶ τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἀπολαύσωσι · καὶ μὴ πάντα τὸν χρόνον δυστυχοῦντες διαγάγωσιν . ἱκανὸς γὰρ ὁ παρεληλυθώς , ἐν ᾧ τί τῶν δεινῶν οὐ γέγονεν ;),  walking as ye have done (the perf. part. connects with κατειργάσθαι : the absence of the art. gives it the slight inferential force which justifies the former assertion)  in lasciviousnesses (outbreaks of ἀσέλγεια ),  lusts (here perhaps not general, as in 1 Peter 4:2 , but particular, lusts of uncleanness),  wine-bibbings (  οἰνοφλυγία ἐστὶν ἐπιθυμία οἴνου ἄπληστος , Andronicus Rhodius, περὶ παθῶν , p. 6. But from the other examples of its use in Wetst., it seems to express not only the desire, but its indulgence),  revellings (see for a full explanation of  κῶμοι , the word in Palm and Rost),  drinking-bouts (Appian says of Sertorius, Bell. Civ. i. p. 700 (Wetst.), τὰ πολλὰ ἦν ἐπὶ τρυφῆς , γυναιξὶ καὶ κώμοις καὶ πότοις σχολάζων . Suidas gives, ποτὸς τὸ πινόμενον , πότος δὲ τὸ συμπόσιον ),  and nefarious (“quibus sanctissimum Dei jus violatur,” Beng.)  idolatries (I may remark as against the view that this Epistle was written to Jews, that this passage cannot be explained on that supposition. The Jews certainly never went so far into Gentile abominations as to justify its assertions):