 6 .]  For (assigns a reason for the κρῖναι νεκρούς just mentioned)  to this end (viz. that enunciated by the  ἵνα which follows: see ref. John; ch. 1Pe 3:9 )  to dead men also (as well as to  living , which is the ordinary case:  καί carrying with it a climax, “even to the dead”)  was the gospel preached (when, and by Whom, see below),  that they might indeed be judged (aor.)  according to men as regards the flesh, but might live on (pres.)  according to God as regards the spirit . In examining into the meaning of this difficult verse, one thing may be laid down at the outset, as certain on any sure principles of exegesis: and thereby a whole class of interpretations removed out of our way. Seeing that  γάρ binds 1Pe 4:5-6 logically together, and that  καὶ νεκροῖς distinctly takes up the  νεκρούς before in this logical connexion, all interpretations must be false which do not give  νεκροῖς in 1Pe 4:6 the same meaning as  νεκρούς in 1 Peter 4:5 ; i. e. that of  dead men , literally and simply so called: men who have died, and are in their graves. This at once rids us of all the Commentators who interpret this second νεκροῖς of the  dead in trespasses and sins , so Aug [14] , Cyril, Œc. (only as an altern., and he blames the interpretation, saying that οἱ παλαιοὶ τῶν πατέρων so explained it, οὐδὲν φροντίσαντες τῆς συνεχείας τῶν ἄνω , οὐδ ʼ ὅτι αἰτιολογικῶς εἰρημένων δεῖ πρὸς τὰ πρὸ αὐτοῦ ἀναφέρεσθαι . He himself interprets it of the descent of our Lord into Hades), Bed [15] , Erasmus, Luther, Whitby, Gerhard, al., as well as those who to gain this meaning here, distort νεκρούς in 1Pe 4:5 from its constant reference in that connexion, to mean the  spiritually dead , or the  Gentiles , as e. g. Severus in Cramer’s Catena, Huss, Benson, Macknight. A second principle which we may lay down is this: that νεκροῖς in 1Pe 4:6 must be kept as wide in its  reference as νεκρούς in 1 Peter 4:5 ; i. e., that it must not be interpreted as applying merely to the blasphemers of the Christians who should have died before the judgment, or merely to such blasphemed Christians themselves as shall have then died, or merely to the spirits in prison of ch. 1 Peter 3:19 , but must be treated as a general assertion in the literal meaning of νεκροῖς . The want of the article does not justify any limitation of this word: for the art. is also wanting before νεκρούς in 1 Peter 4:5 , which indisputably is universal in its reference. At the same time, seeing that νεκροῖς asserts that which it asserts of the  genus , the  ground of so doing may be the occurrence of it with reference to certain fore-mentioned instances, though those instances themselves are not the subjects here. So that we cannot remove from consideration these last-mentioned interpretations, but must deal with them seriatim. First then comes that of Hofmann (Schriftb. ii. 1. 339 341), al., that the Apostle comforts his readers in persecution and slander, by the thought that bodily death would not exempt their adversaries from the divine judgment. In this case νεκροῖς would mean “  now dead ,” and εὐηγγελίσθη would point to the time when the gospel was preached to them, before they died. This of itself is a very weighty objection. Such a divulsion of the verb from its object by an intervening change of state and time was precisely that against which we protested in τοῖς ἐν φυλακῇ πνεύμασιν ἐκήρυξεν above, ch. 1 Peter 3:19 . But even granting that this might be so, other as great objections remain. For how does it consist with the ἑτοίμως ἔχειν above, that the Apostle should assume the deaths of these persecutors as a matter of course, to happen before the Lord’s coming to judgment? Again, even granting such assumption, the number of their persecutors who would be amenable to punishment would thus be confined to those to whom the Gospel had been preached: any who might never have heard it would, by this reasoning, escape such judgment. Again, even supposing that all such objections were removed, the point established would be an utterly unworthy one. For who ever thought, that the fact of death before the Lord’s coming would exempt any man from judgment? And to what purpose would it be, to speak to the readers in so marked a manner of their  dead persecutors, in the midst of exhortations concerning their behaviour amidst their living ones? Next, we have the view (Calv., al.) that the particular case, on which the general νεκροῖς is founded, is that of such  persecuted Christians as should decease before the Lord’s coming. To this the first of the before raised objections, that νεκροῖς must mean ‘  now dead,’ and εὐηγγ . refer to a  former preaching when they were alive, applies in full force. And this I should hold to be fatal to it. It must be confessed, that it agrees better with the context than the last: for while that finds no assignable contextual justification, it might be said in this case, that for this very reason was the Gospel preached to those among you who have suffered death at the hands of persecutors, even hereunto were they called, that they might indeed be judged, condemned, by human persecution, as regards the flesh, but notwithstanding might live eternally with God as regards the spirit. Still I conceive we are not at liberty to receive it, on account of the above objection. If καὶ νεκροῖς εὐηγγελίσθη may mean, “the Gospel was preached to some during their lifetime, who are now dead,” exegesis has no longer any fixed rule, and Scripture may be made to prove any thing. (Bengel takes it in  both the last-mentioned references: to the persecutors, and to the Christians.) It remains that we consider the view, that the persons pointed at are those spirits in prison to whom our Lord went and preached, ch. 1 Peter 3:19 . This supposition, but always with the protest raised above, that νεκροῖς does not refer only to these, but to the dead generally, and that these are only the occasion of the general assertion, is also adopted by Wiesinger. And it may be thus defended: granted, that the  γάρ of our verse assigns a reason, not for the persecutors giving an account to the judge of the quick and dead, nor for the Christians bearing up under the prospect of martyrdom, it will follow of necessity that it assigns a reason for the κρῖναι ζῶντας καὶ νεκρούς which it immediately follows: or rather, for the νεκρούς portion of that clause. Our Lord is ready to judge the dead: and with reason: for even they have not been without opportunity of receiving His gospel: as the example which was adduced in ch. 1Pe 3:19 shews. For this end the gospel was preached even to the dead, that they might not indeed escape the universal judgment on human sin, which is physical death, but,  that they might be judged (aor.; be in the state of the completed sentence on sin, which is death after the flesh)  according to (as)  man as regards the flesh (this first clause following ἵνα being the subordinate one, of the state which the εὐηγγελίσθη left remaining), but (notwithstanding)  might live (pres.; of a state to continue)  according to God (a life with God, and divine)  as regards the spirit : so that the relation of these two clauses with  μέν and  δέ is precisely as in Romans 8:10 , εἰ δὲ χριστὸς ἐν ὑμῖν , τὸ μὲν σῶμα νεκρόν διὰ ἁμαρτίαν , τὸ δὲ πνεῦμα ζωὴ διὰ δικαιοσύνην : where the former clause in the apodosis is not the consequence of the protasis, but an abiding fact, seeming to militate against, but really not hindering that consequence. And this interpretation I adopt, believing it to be the only one which satisfies the philological conditions of the sentence: which justifies the  γάρ as accounting for the κρῖναι νεκρούς : the  καί , as taking up, and bringing into prominence and climax the νεκροῖς : the  νεκροῖς , as used in precisely the same sense as in the last verse, and contemporary with the verb which governs it: the  εὐηγγελίσθη , as grounded on a previously announced fact, ch. 1 Peter 3:19 ; the aim and end introduced by the  ἵνα , which on this, and on no other rendering, receives meaning and perspicuity. And so, in the main, with minor deviations, the more accurate of the modern Commentators: Steiger, De Wette, Huther, Wiesinger, Weiss.
	 [14]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [15] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.