 12 .]  Beloved (so ch. 1 Peter 2:11 ; here it begins an affectionate address in which comfort and joy is about to be introduced),  be not astonished at (see on 1 Peter 4:4 ; think it not a thing alien from you, in which you are not at home. St. Peter himself ἐξενίζετο at our Lord’s sufferings, when he said ἵλεώς σοι , κύριε . On the construction with dat. of reference, cf. Brasidas, Thuc. iv. 85, θαυμάζω δὲ τῇ τε ἀποκλείσει μου τῶν πυλῶν , καὶ εἰ μὴ κ . τ . λ .: and Winer, § 31. 1.  f )  the passing through the fire (  πύρωσις , lit.  burning : in its later use, smelting, trying of metal by fire: cf. Psa 65:10 LXX, ἐπύρωσας ἡμᾶς , ὡς πυροῦται τὸ ἀργύριον : Proverbs 27:21 , δοκίμιον ἀργυρίῳ καὶ χρυσῷ πύρωσις . See also Revelation 3:18 . Œc. says, πύρωσιν τὰς θλίψεις εἰπών , ἐνέφῃνεν ὡς διὰ δοκιμασίαν αὐτοῖς αὗται )  which is taking place (  γινομένῃ (not τῇ γινομένῃ ) may be rendered “taking place,” as predicate after πυρώσει : so that the object of their astonishment was τὸ τὴν ἐν αὐτοῖς πύρωσιν γίνεσθαι : the sentence would thus stand, “at the πύρωσις in your case happening for a πειρασμός to you.” But this is not grammatically necessary, and would be pragmatically hardly justifiable: because it would take the occurrence of the πύρωσις for granted, and make its  purpose alone matter of astonishment: which was not so)  in your case (  ἐν ὑμῖν is rendered “among you” by De Wette and Huther (  einige in eurer Mitte betreffende , De W.), and this may be: we can hardly say with Wiesinger that it is afterwards treated as a trial for all: the εἰ ὀνειδίζεσθε and εἴ ( τις πάσχει ) ὡς χριστιανός necessarily assume that there were exceptions from the supposition. But I prefer the other rendering, as the Apostle evidently is in this and the next verse speaking generally)  for a trial to you (  ὑμῖν , dat. commodi),  as if (explanatory of ξενίζεσθε )  some strange thing were happening to you (  συμβαίνοντος , as Bengel, “temere:” were falling by chance on you: opposed to πρὸς πειρασμὸν γινομένῃ , done with a purpose, by One who knows how to serve that purpose):