 11 .] And this both in speaking and acting.  If any one speaketh (as a προφήτης or διδάσκαλος , see 1 Corinthians 12:8 ; 1 Corinthians 12:10 , where the several branches of this gift are laid out),  speaking (understand λαλοῦντες , from the former construction, not λαλείτω )  as oracles (not, “the oracles;” the meaning is not, speaking in accord with Scripture, but, speaking what he does speak, as God’s sayings, not his own: as a steward, “non liberalis de proprio sed de alieno,” as Gerh. on the last verse. On  λόγια , see note, ref. Heb.)  of God: if any one ministereth (in Romans 12:8 ; 1 Corinthians 12:28 , we have the several parts of this διακονία laid out), ( διακονοῦντες )  as (see above)  out of (as his store and power of ministration)  the power (thus to minister)  which God bestoweth ( ἐπιχορηγέω is commoner than the simple word: cf. 2 Peter 1:11 ; 2 Corinthians 9:10 ; Galatians 3:5 ; Colossians 2:19 ; and ἐπιχορηγία Philippians 1:19 ; Ephesians 4:16 . From signifying the supply of means to furnish a chorus for the public performances at Athens, it came to mean generally, to  supply , or  furnish ):  that (aim and end of all this, as of every act both of the Christian community and of the Christian man)  in all things (not, as De Wette, in all of you as His organs, referring to John 13:31 ; John 17:10 ; but as in ref. The fact that all things are referred to God and done as of and to Him, is His being glorified in the Christian church. Œc. gives as an altern., ἐν πᾶσιν ἔθνεσιν , which is still more in fault)  God may be glorified through Jesus Christ (“sicut a Deo per Christum omnia beneficia ad nos descendunt, ita quoque … per Christum omnia ad Dei gloriam referri debent.” Gerh.),  to whom (viz. to God, as the main subject of the foregoing, and also because ἡ δόξα refers back to δοξάζηται . Grot., Calov., Steiger, al. refer the words to Christ, which is not so natural here, seeing that διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ is introduced only secondarily. The case is very similar to Hebrews 13:21 , where see note. See similar doxologies, ch. 1 Peter 5:11 ; Romans 11:36 ; Eph 3:21 )  is the glory and the might (exactly so in Revelation 1:6 ; see also Rev 5:13 )  to the ages of the ages (i. e., for ever and ever, see note, 1Ti 1:17 ).  Amen (is, as Harl., not a note of conclusion, but of strong emotion of heart).