 1. ]  ἔλεγεν δὲ καί a continuation, I believe, of the foregoing: certainly closely connected in subject with it, as is the second parable in this chapter also: see below.
	 πρὸς τ  .   μαθ  ., not to the  Twelve only , but to the  multitude of the disciples; and more immediately perhaps to the  Publicans , whose reception by Him had been the occasion of this discourse. I say this because I believe them to hold  a place, though not a principal or an exclusive one, in the application of the parable which follows.
	 ἄνθρ  .   τ  .   ἦν πλοίσ  .… ] The history in this parable is, in itself, purely  worldly . The  master is a υἱὸς τοῦ αἰῶνος τούτου , as well as his steward:  bear this in mind: the whole parabolic machinery is  from the standing-point of the children of this world .
	In the interpretation, this rich man is  the Almighty Possessor of all things . This is the  only tenable view . Meyer, who supposes him to be  Mammon (defending it by the consideration that  dismissal from his service =  being received into everlasting habitations , which it  does not , see below), is involved in inextricable difficulties further on. Olshausen’s view, that he = the  Devil , the ἄρχων τοῦ κόσμου τούτου , will be found equally untenable. Schleiermacher’s, that the  Romans are intended, whose stewards the Publicans were, and that the debtors = the Jews, hardly needs refuting; certainly not  more refuting, than any consistent exposition will of itself furnish.
	 οἰκονόμον  , a general overlooker very much what we understand by  an agent , or ‘a man of business,’ or, in the larger sense,  a steward. They were generally of old,  slaves: but this man is a  freeman , from Luke 16:3-4 . This steward = especially the  Publicans , but also  all the disciples , i.e.  every man in Christ’s Church . We are all God’s stewards, who commits to our trust His property: each one’s office is of larger or smaller trust and responsibility, according to the measure entrusted to him. I say,  especially the Publicans , because the Twelve, and probably others, had  relinquished all and followed Christ , and therefore the application of the parable to them would not be  so direct: and also because I cannot but put together with this parable, and consider as perhaps prompted by it or the report of it, the profession of Zacchæus, ch. Luke 19:8 . Other interpretations have been  the Pharisees (Vitringa, and more recently Zyro, Theol. Stud. und Krit. for 1831) but then the parable should have been  addressed to them , which it was not, and this view entirely fails in the application:  Judas Iscariot (Bertholdt), of the vindication of which view I am not in possession, and therefore can only generally say, that it is perfectly preposterous:  Pontius Pilate &c. &c.
	 διεβλήθη not  wrongfully , which the word does not imply necessarily but  maliciously , which it does imply: see Daniel 6:24 . The reason why it has come so generally to signify ‘  wrongful accusation,’ is, that malicious charges are so frequently slanderous. The steward himself does not deny it.
	Meyer (see above) in carrying out his view, would interpret this charge as an accusation by the Pharisees against the disciples that they  wasted the goods of Mammon by entering the service of Christ: but then (1)  this other service never once appears on the face of the parable; and (2) surely it would hardly be within the bounds of decorum that this διασκορπίζειν should = the entering Christ’s service; this would bring a train of false interpretations with it, and even hold up the ἀδικία of the steward,  as such , for imitation.
	 διασκορπίζων not that he  had wasted (E. V.), but  was wasting, his goods, ὡς διασκορπίζων = ὅτι διεσκόρπιζεν . So διέβαλλον ὡς λυμαινόμενον τὴν πολιτείαν , Xen. Hell. ii. 3. 23. In this charge (spiritually) we may see the real guilt of every man who is entrusted with the goods of our heavenly Father. We are all ‘scattering His goods.’ If some one is to be found to answer to οἱ διαβάλλοντες , the analogy of  ὁ διάβολος  , ‘the accuser of the brethren,’ is too striking to escape us.