 16. ] See Mat 11:12 and note. After  προφ  . supply προεφήτευσαν , not (Meyer) ἐκηρύσσοντο , which would be inapplicable to the law and the prophets.
	The connexion is, ‘  Ye are they that justify yourselves before men; ye are no publicans and sinners, no poor and needy, but righteous, and increased with this world’s  goods. But, since John, a kingdom has been preached, into which every one, publicans and sinners too ( πᾶς [98] πάντες , ch. Luk 15:1 )  are pressing in. The true relation however of that kingdom to the law is not as ye suppose, to destroy the law ( Mat 5:17 ),  but to fulfil .’ Then, as an example, our Lord reiterates the decision which He had before given on a point much controverted among the Jews the law of adultery. But this He does, not  without occasion given , and close connexion with the circumstances, and with what had before been said. As early as Tertullian, cont. Marc. iv. 34, vol. ii. p. 443, it was remarked, that an allusion was meant here to the adultery of Herod Antipas with his brother Philip’s wife, which the Pharisees had tacitly sanctioned, thus allowing an open breach of that law which Christ came to fulfil. To this mention of Herod’s crime the μέχρι Ἰωάννου gave relevance. Still the idea must not be too lightly assumed. Bleek’s remark is worth notice, that, had such an allusion been intended, the last words of the verse would have been otherwise expressed. Antipas had not  married a divorced woman , but abduced a married woman from her husband.
	 [98] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	See on Matthew 5:32 .