 22. ] The  burial of Lazarus is not mentioned, διὰ τὸ ἀτημέλητον τῆς τῶν πτωχῶν ταφῆς , Euthym [99] This is the only admissible reason. Meyer rejects it as arbitrary, and not consistent with the received notions about Hades, in which not the soul only, but the whole man was after death believing it to be meant that the angels carried Lazarus  bodily into Paradise. But then his interpretation halts, when he comes to the burial of the rich man, whom he makes go down out of his grave into hell. The fact is, that in both cases the material corpse remains on this earth, buried or unburied; while that personality, to which universal consent rightly attributes sensibility to bliss and woe, and the feelings and parts of the body, the man’s real  self , is translated into the other world. (If, when parts of the body are removed, we still believe that we possess those limbs, and feel pain in them, why may not the disembodied spirit still subjectively exist in, and feel the sensations of, that corporeal system from which it is temporarily separated?)
	 [99] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ἀπενεχθ  .   αὐτ  .… ] In the whole of this description, the following canon of interpretation may be safely laid down: Though it is unnatural to suppose that our Lord would in such a parable formally  reveal any  new truth respecting the state of the dead, yet, in conforming himself to the ordinary language current on these subjects, it is impossible to suppose that He, whose essence is Truth, could have assumed as existing any thing which does not exist. It would destroy the truth of our Lord’s sayings, if we could conceive Him to have used popular language which  did not point at truth . And accordingly, where  such language was current, we find Him not adopting, but protesting against it: see Matthew 15:5 .
	The bearing of the spirits of the just into bliss by the holy angels is only analogous to their other employments: see Matthew 13:41 ; Hebrews 1:14 .
	 τ  .   κόλπ  .   Ἀβραάμ ] The above remark does not apply here for this, as a form of speech among the Jews, was not even by themselves understood in its strict literal sense; and though the  purposes of the parable require this, Luke 16:23 , no one would think of pressing it into a truth, but all would see in it the graphic filling up of a state which in itself is strictly actual. The expression בחיקו של אברהם signified the  happy side of Hades , where all the Fathers were conceived as resting in bliss. In Joseph. de Macc. § 13 we have οὕτω γὰρ θανόντας ἡμᾶς Ἀβραὰμ κ . Ἰσ . κ . Ἰακ . ὑποδέξονται εἰς τοὺς κόλπους αὐτῶν .
	No pre-eminence is signified, as in John 13:23 ;  all the blessed are spoken of as in Abraham’s bosom. See also John 1:18 .
	The death of the rich man  last should be remarked; Lazarus was taken soon from his sufferings; Dives was left longer, that he might have space to repent.
	 κ  .   ἐτάφη ] There can be no doubt that the  funeral is mentioned as being congruous to his station in life, and, as Trench observes, ‘in a sublime irony,’ implying that he had all things  properly cared for; the purple and fine linen which he wore in life, not spared at his obsequies. See Meyer’s interpretation above.