 9. ] We now pass to the application at once from the mouth of our Lord Himself. All that is dishonest and furtive in the character of the steward belonged entirely to him as a υἱὸς τοῦ αἰῶνος τούτου : but even in this character there was a point to praise and imitate. And the dishonesty itself is not inserted without purpose viz. to shew us  how little the νἱοὶ τ . αἰ . τ .  scruple to use it, and how natural it is to them. Now , however, we stand on higher ground: καθαροῖς πάντα καθαρά : in bringing up the example into the purer air which the sons of light breathe, its grosser parts drop off, and the finer only remain.
	 καὶ ἐγὼ ὑμῖν λ  . seems to recognize a necessary difference in the two situations: ‘although  you are sons of the light and the day, and  can do no such furtive acts, yet I  say to YOU’ … This view will explain how we may make  φίλους ἐκ τοῦ μαμ  .   τῆς ἀδ  . just as we can make an example for ourselves out of the  οἰκονόμος τῆς ἀδικ  . that which is of itself  τῆς ἀδικίας which belongs to, is part of a system of, ἀδικία , which is the very ῥίζα πάντων τῶν κακῶν , the result, and the aptest concretion, of that system of meum and tuum (see ch. Luk 15:12 ) which is itself the result of sin having entered into the world. And we are to use this Mammon of unrighteousness to make ourselves, not palaces, nor barns, nor estates, nor treasures, but  friends; i.e. to bestow it on the poor and needy (see ch. Luke 12:33 , which is the most striking parallel to our text compare  ὅταν ἐκλίπῃ  , with θησαυρὸν ἀνέκλειπτον there)  that when it shall fail,  they, i.e. the φίλοι (compare the joy in heaven ch. Luke 15:7 ; Luke 15:10 , and Baxter’s remark cited there by Stier ‘Is there joy in heaven at thy conversion, and will there be none at thy glorification?’)  may receive you into the (or their)  everlasting tabernacles. See also ch. Luke 14:13-14 .
	God repays in their name. They receive us there with joy, if they are gone before us: they receive us there by making us partakers of their prayers, which ‘move the Hand that moves the world,’ even during this life. Deeds then of charity and mercy are to be our spiritual shrewdness, by which we may turn to our account the ἄδικον μαμωνᾶ , providing ourselves with friends out of it; and the debtors are here perhaps to be taken in their literal, not parabolic sense we are to lighten their burdens by timely relief the only way in which a son of light can change the hundred into fifty, or fourscore: see Isaiah 58:6-8 .