 No certain thing  (ασφαλες τι--ου). Nothing definite or reliable (α privative, σφαλλω, to trip). All the charges of the Sanhedrin slipped away or were tripped up by Paul. Festus confesses that he had nothing left and thereby convicts himself of gross insincerity in his proposal to Paul in verse Acts 25:9 about going up to Jerusalem. By his own statement he should have set Paul free. The various details here bear the marks of the eyewitness. Luke was surely present and witnessed this grand spectacle with Paul as chief performer.Unto my lord  (τω κυριω). Augustus (Octavius) and Tiberius refused the title of κυριος (lord) as too much like rex (king) and like master and slave, but the servility of the subjects gave it to the other emperors who accepted it (Nero among them). Antoninus Pius put it on his coins. Deissmann (Light from the Ancient East, p. 105) gives an ostracon dated Aug. 4, A.D. 63 with the words "in the year nine of Nero the lord" (ενατου Νερωνος του κυριου). Deissmann (op. cit., pp. 349ff.) runs a most interesting parallel "between the cult of Christ and the cult of Caesar in the application of the term κυριος, lord" in ostraca, papyri, inscriptions. Beyond a doubt Paul has all this fully in mind when he says in 1 Corinthians 12:3 that "no one is able to say Κυριος Ιησους except in the Holy Spirit" (cf. also Philippians 2:11). The Christians claimed this word for Christ and it became the test in the Roman persecutions as when Polycarp steadily refused to say " Lord Caesar" and insisted on saying "Lord Jesus" when it meant his certain death.Before you  (εφ' υμων). The whole company. In no sense a new trial, but an examination in the presence of these prominent men to secure data and to furnish entertainment and pleasure to Agrippa (verse Acts 25:22).Especially before thee  (μαλιστα επ σου). Out of courtesy. It was the main reason as verse Acts 25:22 shows. Agrippa was a Jew and Festus was glad of the chance to see what he thought of Paul's case.After examination had  (της ανακρισεως γενομενης). Genitive absolute, "the examination having taken place." Ανακρισις from ανακρινω (cf. Acts 12:19; Acts 24:8; Acts 28:18) is a legal term for preliminary examination. Only here in the N.T. Inscriptions and papyri give it as examination of slaves or other property.That I may have somewhat to write  (οπως σχω τ γραψω). Ingressive aorist subjunctive σχω (may get) with οπως (final particle like ινα). Τ γραψω in indirect question after σχω is either future indicative or aorist subjunctive (Robertson, Grammar, p. 1045). Festus makes it plain that this is not a "trial," but an examination for his convenience to help him out of a predicament. 