 18.   ἀμήν ] = ἀληθῶς in St. Luke, Luke 9:27 ; Luke 12:44 ; Luke 21:3 . See reff. The double  ἕως αν renders the dependence of the members of the sentence rather difficult. The two expressions seem to be strictly parallel: ἕως ἂν παρ . ὁ οὐρ . κ . ἡ γῆ , and ἕως ἂν πάντα γέν . According to this view these latter words will mean, ‘  till the end of all things .’ But the other interpretation, ‘  till all (that is written in the law)  shall have been fulfilled ’ (as in the English version), is no doubt admissible, in which case the sense will stand thus:  While heaven and earth last ( ἕως ἂν ὁ κόσμος διαμένῃ , Euthym [45] )  one jot or one tittle shall not pass away from the law without all being fulfilled. Tholuck remarks on παρέρχεσθαι , “It denotes, as παραδραμεῖν , παραφέρεσθαι , παράγειν , ‘to pass by,’ ‘to pass out of view’ (see Wets [46] . in loc.): cf. Aristid. i. 216: παρῆλθον ὥσπερ μῦθοι , and the phrase παρέρχεταί μέ τι , ‘something escapes my memory.’ Cf. in the Heb., עָבַר Psalms 37:36 ; Nahum 1:12 ; Job 34:20 . Cf. the passing away of the heaven, ch. Matthew 24:39 : 2 Peter 3:10 ; Revelation 21:1 ; παράγεται , 1 John 2:17 ; the intrans. παράγει , 1 Corinthians 7:31 .”
	 [45] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [46] Wetstein.
	 ἰῶτα is the Hebrew ( י ) Jod, the smallest letter in the alphabet:  κεραῖαι are the little turns of the strokes by which one letter differs from another similar to it. Origen on Psalms 33:1-22 (cited by Wetstein) says τῶν στοιχείων παρ ʼ Ἑβραίοις , λέγω δὲ τοῦ χὰφ καὶ τοῦ βήθ ( כ and ב ) πολλὴν ὁμοιότητα σωζόντων , ὡς κατὰ μηδὲν ἀλλήλων διαλλάττειν ἢ βραχείᾳ κεραίᾳ μόνῃ . The Rabbinical writings have many sayings similar in sentiment to this, but spoken of the  literal written law. (See Lightfoot, Hor. Heb. in loc.)
	It is important to observe in  these days how the Lord here  includes the O.T. and all its unfolding of the divine purposes regarding Himself, in His teaching of the citizens of the kingdom of heaven. I say this, because it is always in  contempt and setting aside of the O.T. that rationalism has begun. First,  its historical truth then its  theocratic dispensation and the  types and  prophecies connected with it, are swept away; so that Christ came to fulfil nothing, and becomes only a teacher or a martyr: and thus the way is paved for a similar rejection of the N.T.; beginning with the narratives of the birth and infancy, as theocratic myths advancing to the denial of His miracles then attacking the truthfulness of His own sayings which are grounded on the O.T. as a revelation from God and so finally leaving us nothing in the Scriptures but, as a German writer of this school has expressed it, ‘a mythology not so attractive as that of Greece.’ That this is the course which unbelief  has run in Germany, should be a pregnant warning to the decriers of the O.T. among ourselves. It should be a maxim for every expositor and every student, that Scripture is a  whole , and stands or falls together. That this is now beginning to be deeply felt in Germany, we have cheering testimonies in the later editions of their best Commentators, and in the valuable work of Stier on the discourses of our Lord. (Since however these words were first written, we have had lamentable proof in England, that their warnings were not unneeded. The course of unbelief which induced the publication of the volume entitled “Essays and Reviews,” was, in character and progress, exactly that above described: and owing to the injudicious treatment which multiplied tenfold the circulation of that otherwise contemptible work, its fallacies are now in the hands and mouths of thousands, who, from the low standard of intelligent Scriptural knowledge among us, will never have the means of answering them.)