 14.   τὸ φῶς τοῦ κός  . ] And yet only in a lower and derivative sense; Christ Himself being τὸ φῶς τὸ ἀληθινόν , ὃ φωτίζει πάντα ἄνθρωπον , ἐρχόμενον εἰς τὸν κόσμον , John 1:9 ; τὸ φῶς τοῦ κόσμον , Matthew 8:12 . His ministers are λύχνοι , John 5:35 , and φωστῆρες , Philippians 2:15 ,  receiving their light, and only burning  for a time . ‘Johannes lumen illuminatum: Christus lumen illuminans.’ Aug [42] Serm. ccclxxx.7 (vol. v. pt. ii.). And here too, φῶς in this verse = λύχνος in Matthew 5:15 , where the comparison is resumed. So also Ephesians 5:8 ; ἦτε σκότος , νῦν δὲ φῶς  ἐν κυρίῳ  light,  as partaking of His Light: for πᾶν τὸ φανερούμενον (see note, ib. Eph 5:13 ) φῶς ἐστιν .
	 [42]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 οὐ δύναται  .… ] Of course it is possible that our Lord may have had  some town before Him thus situated, but  not Bethulia , whose very existence is probably fabulous, being only mentioned in the apocryphal book of Judith. Recent travellers, as Drs. Stanley and Thomson (‘Sinai and Palestine,’ p. 429: ‘The Land and the Book,’ p. 273), have thought that, notwithstanding the fact shewn by Robinson, that the actual city of Safed was not in existence at this time, some ancient portion of it, at all events its fortress, which is ‘as aged in appearance as the most celebrated ruins in the country’ (Thomson), may have been before the eye of our Lord as He spoke. It is ‘placed high on a bold spur of the Galilæan Anti-Lebanon,’ and answers well to the description of a city ‘lying on the mountain top.’ ‘The only other in view would be the village and fortress of Tabor, distinctly visible from the mount of Beatitudes, though not from the hills on the lake side. Either or both of these would suggest the illustration, which would be more striking from the fact, that this situation of cities on the tops of the hills is as rare in Galilee, as it is common in Judæa.’ Stanley, ubi supra. But the CHURCH OF GOD, the  city on a hill (Isaiah 2:2 ; Galatians 4:26 ; see also Heb 12:22 ), in allusion to their present situation, on a mountain, is most probably the leading thought.