 19. ] There is little difficulty in this verse, if we consider it in connexion with the verse preceding, to which it is bound by the οὖν and the τούτων , and with the following, to which the γάρ unites it. Bearing this in mind, we see (1) that  λύσῃ  , on account of what follows in Mat 5:20 and after, must be taken in the higher sense, as referring to the  spirit and not the letter:  whosoever shall break (have broken), in the sense presently to be laid down. (2) That  τῶν ἐντ  .   τούτ  .   τῶν ἐλ  . refers to ἰῶτα ἓν ἢ μία κεραία above, and means one of those minute commands which seem as insignificant, in comparison with the greater, as the ἰῶτα and κεραία in comparison with great portions of writing. (3) That  ἐλάχιστος κληθ  . does not mean ‘  shall be excluded from ,’ inasmuch as the question is not of  keeping or not keeping the commandments of God in a legal sense, but of  appreciating, and causing others to appreciate , the import and weight of even the most insignificant parts of God’s revelation of Himself to man; and rather therefore applies to teachers than to Christians in general, though to them also through the λύσῃ and ποιήσῃ . (4) That  no deduction can be drawn from these words binding the Jewish law, or any part of it, as such, upon Christians . That this is so, is plainly shewn by what follows, where our Lord proceeds to pour upon the letter of the law the fuller light of the spirit of the Gospel: thus lifting and expanding (not destroying) every jot and tittle of that precursory dispensation into its full meaning in the life and practice of the Christian; who, by the indwelling of the divine Teacher, God’s Holy Spirit, is led into all truth and purity. (5) That  these words of our Lord are decisive against such persons , whether ancient or modern, as  would set aside the Old Testament as without significance, or inconsistent with the New . See the preceding note, and the Book of Common Prayer, Article vii.
	 ἐλάχιστος is in direct allusion to ἐλαχίστων ; but it can hardly be said (De Wette, Tholuck) that, because there is no article, it means ‘  one of the least ’ (  ein geringster ), for the article is often omitted after an appellative verb.  μέγας rests on different grounds; being positive, and in its nature generic. See ch. Matthew 11:11 ; Matthew 18:1-4 .
	On  κληθήσεται  , see note on Matthew 5:9 . Observe the conditional aorists, λύσῃ , ποιήσῃ , διδάξῃ , combined with the indic. fut. κληθήσεται , and thus necessitating the keeping the times distinct. The time indicated by κληθήσεται is one when the λῦσαι , ποιῆσαι , διδάξαι , shall be things of the past belonging to a course of responsibility over and done with.