 21.   ἠκούσατε ] viz. by the reading of the law in the synagogues, and the exposition of the Scribes.
	 τοῖς ἀρχαίοις ] has been rendered, as in E. V., ‘  by the ancients;’ in which case, Moses and his traditional expounders are classed together; or, ‘  to the ancients,’ which last interpretation seems to me to be certainly the right one. Both constructions are found (see reff.); but every instance of the former is either (as ch. Mat 6:1 ) resolvable into the latter, or ambiguous, and none can be produced with ἐῤῥήθη , whereas  all the latter have  this very word , which is never followed in the N.T. or LXX by any other substantive but that denoting the persons  to whom the words are spoken. The omission of τοῖς ἀρχαίοις , Matthew 5:27 ; Matthew 5:31 ; Matthew 5:38 ; Matthew 5:43 , also favours the rendering  to , which was the interpretation of the Greek fathers. Chrysostom expands it thus: τί οὖν αὐτός φησιν ; ἠκούσατε ὅτι ἐῤῥέθη τοῖς ἀρχαίοις Οὐ φονεύσεις · καίτοι ὁ καὶ ἐκεῖνα δοὺς αὐτός ἐστιν · ἀλλὰ τέως ἀπροσώπως αὐτὰ τίθησιν . εἴτε γὰρ εἶπεν ὅτι ἠκούσατε ὅτι εἶπον τοῖς ἀρχαίοις , δυσπαράδεκτος ὁ λόγος ἐγίνετο , καὶ πᾶσιν ἂν προσέστη τοῖς ἀκούουσιν · εἴτε αὖ πάλιν εἰπὼν ὅτι ἠκούσατε ὅτι ἐῤῥέθη τοῖς ἀρχαίοις παρὰ τοῦ πατρός μου , ἐπήγαγεν Ἐγὼ δὲ λέγω , μείζων ἂν ἒδοξεν εἶναι ὁ αὐθαδιασμός , Hom. xvi. 5, p. 210. Meyer (Exodus 2:0 ) has well observed that ἐῤῥήθη τοῖς ἀρχαίοις corresponds to λέγω δὲ ὑμῖν , and the ἐγώ to the understood subject of ἐῤῥ . He has not, however, apprehended the deeper truth which underlies the omission of the subject of ἐῤῥ ., that it was the  same person who said both. It will be noticed that our Lord does not here speak against the  abuse of the law by tradition, but that every instance here given is either from  the law itself , or  such traditional teaching as was in accordance with it (e.g. the latter part of this verse is only a formal expansion of the former). The contrasts here are not between  the law misunderstood and  the law rightly understood , but between the  law and its ancient exposition , which in their letter, and as given, were κενά , and  the same as spiritualized , πεπληρωμένα ,  by Christ: not between  two lawgivers , Moses and Christ, but between οἱ ἀρχαῖοι and ὑμεῖς ; between (the idea is Chrysostom’s) the children, by the same husband, of the  bondwoman and of the  freewoman . The above remarks comprise a brief answer to the important but somewhat misapprehended question, whether our Lord impugned the Mosaic law itself, or only its inadequate interpretation by the Jewish teachers? See this treated at great length by Tholuck, Bergp. pp. 153 165, edn. 3. There is no inconsistency in the above view with the assertion in Matthew 5:19 : the just and holy and true law was necessarily restricted in meaning and degraded in position, until He came, whose office it was to fulfil and glorify it.
	 κρίσει ] viz. the courts in every city, ordered Deuteronomy 16:18 , and explained by Josephus Antt. iv. 8. 14 to consist of seven men, and to have the power of life and death. But τῇ κρίσει in the next verse (see note) is the court of judgment in the Messiah’s kingdom.