 1.   ἰδὼν δέ ] Without attempting a solution of the many difficulties which beset the question of time, place, and arrangement of our Lord’s Sermon on the Mount, I shall state the principal views of these subjects, and make some remarks upon them. One of the weightiest questions is, as to  the identity or otherwise of the Sermon with that given in Luke 6:20-49 . There is (I) the view that they  are identical . This is generally taken by ordinary readers of Scripture, from their similarity in many points. It is also taken by most of the modern German Commentators, who uniformly reject every attempt at harmonizing by supposing the same or similar words to have been twice uttered. This view is, however, beset by difficulties. For ( α ) the sermon in Luke is expressly said to have been delivered  after the selection of the Apostles: whereas that in the text is as expressly, by continual consecutive notes of time extending to the call of Matthew, (before which the Apostles cannot have been chosen,) placed  before that event. And it is wholly unlikely that St. Matthew, assuming him to be the author of our Gospel, would have made a discourse, which he must have heard immediately after his call as an Apostle, take place before that call.
	Then ( β )  this discourse was spoken on  a mountain, that , after descending from a mountain, in the  plain . Possibly this may be got over, by rendering ἐπὶ τόπου πεδινοῦ “on a level place.” See note on Luke, l. c.: and the citation from Stanley below.
	And again ( γ ), the two discourses are, though containing much common matter,  widely different . Of 107 verses in Matt., Luke contains only  thirty: his  four beatitudes are balanced by as many  woes: and in his text, parts of the sermon are introduced by sayings, which do not precede them in Matt. (e.g. Luke 6:39 ff., Luke 6:45 ff.), but which naturally connect with them. (II) St. Luke  epitomized this discourse, leaving out whatever was unsuitable for his Gentile readers, e.g. ch. Luke 5:17-38 . But this is improbable: for Luke in several verses is  fuller than Matthew, and the whole discourse, as related by him, is connected and consecutive. (III) The two discourses are  wholly distinct . This view is maintained by Greswell, vol. ii. Dis. xi., and principally from the arguments above noticed. But it also is not without grave difficulties, especially if we suppose, as Gres. does, that Luke had the Gospel of Matthew before him (but on this see Prolegg. ch. i. § ii.). That two discourses wholly distinct should contain so much in common, seems unlikely and unnatural. It is hardly credible that two great public special occasions should be selected by the Lord near the commencement of His ministry, and two discourses delivered to the same audience, not  identical , which might have been very probable, and impressive from that very circumstance, nor consecutive, nor explanatory the one of the other, but only coinciding in fragments, and not even as two different reports at the distance of some years might he expected to do. Add to this, that those parts of the discourses in which Luke and Matthew agree, occur in both in almost the same order, and that the beginning and conclusion of both are the same. (IV) St. Matthew  gives a general compendium of the sayings of our Lord during this part of His ministry , of which St. Luke’s discourse formed a  portion , or perhaps was  another shorter compendium . But the last stated objection applies with still greater force to this hypothesis, and renders it indeed quite untenable. Besides, it labours under the chronological difficulty in all its bearings. And to one who has observed throughout the close contextual connexion of the parts in this discourse, it will be quite incredible that they should be a mere collection of sayings, set down at hazard. See notes throughout. (V) The apparent discrepancies are sometimes reconciled by remembering, that  there is no fixed time mentioned in any Evangelist for the special ordination of the Apostles , and that it is very doubtful whether they were at any set moment so ordained all together. Thus Matthew may have been a usual hearer of our Lord, and present with the whole of the Apostles, as related in Luke, though not yet formally summoned as related in Matthew 9:9 ff. The introduction of the discourse in Luke by the words ἐγένετο δὲ ἐν ταῖς ἡμέραις ταύταις (which I maintain to be, on Luke 6:12 , not only  possibly , but  expressly indefinite, and to indicate that the event so introduced may have happened at any time during the current great period of our Lord’s ministry, before, during, or after, those last narrated,) allows us great latitude in assigning Luke’s discourse to any precise time. This, however, leaves the difficulties (above stated under I) in supposing the discourses identical, in force, except the chronological one. With regard to the many sayings of this sermon which occur, dispersed up and down, in Luke, see notes in their respective places, which will explain my view as to their connexion and original times of utterance, in each several instance. See also notes on Luke 6:20-49 .
	 τὸ ὄρος ] Either  some hill near Capernaum well known by this name, and called by it in the reff. to Mark and Luke, (tradition, not earlier probably than the Crusades, which points out a hill between Capernaum and Tiberias as the Mount of Beatitudes, near the present Saphet, is in such a matter worthless as an authority. But the situation seems to modern travellers (see Stanley, ‘Sinai and Palestine,’ p. 368) “so strikingly to coincide with the intimations of the gospel narrative, as almost to force the inference that in this instance the eye of those who selected the spot was for once rightly guided. It is the only height seen in this direction from the shores of the lake of Gennesareth. The plain on which it stands is easily accessible from the lake, and from that plain to the summit is but a few minutes’ walk. The platform at the top is evidently suitable for the collection of a multitude, and corresponds precisely to the ‘level place’ to which He would ‘come down’ as from one of its higher horns to address the people. Its situation is central both to the peasants of the Galilæan hills, and the fishermen of the Galilæan lake, between which it stands, and would therefore be a natural resort both to Jesus and His disciples when they retired for solitude from the shores of the sea, and also to the crowds who assembled ‘from Galilee, from Decapolis, from Jerusalem, from Judæa, and from beyond Jordan.’ None of the other mountains in the neighbourhood could answer equally well to this description, inasmuch as they are merged into the uniform barrier of hills round the lake: whereas this stands separate ‘the mountain,’ which alone could lay claim to a distinct name, with the exception of the one height of Tabor, which is too distant to answer the requirements,”) or  the mountain district , certainly imported by the word in ch. Matthew 14:23 . See a full description of the locality in Tholuck, Bergpr., Exodus 3:0 , pp. 63 ff.
	 οἱ μαθηταί ] in the wider sense: including those of the Apostles already called, and all who had, either for a long or a short time, attached themselves to him as hearers. See John 6:66 .