 13. ] The transition from the preceding verses is easy and natural, from the δεδιωγμένοι ἕνεκεν δικαιοσύνης , of which Matthew 5:11-12 , were a sort of application, and the allusion to the ancient Prophets, to ὑμεῖς ἐστε τὸ ἅλ . τ . γ . Elisha  healed the unwholesome water by means of  salt ( 2Ki 2:20 ), and the ordinary use of salt for culinary purposes is to  prevent putrefaction: so (see Gen 18:23-33 ) are the righteous, the people of God, in this corrupt world. It hardly seems necessary to find instances of the  actual occurrence of salt losing its savour, for this is merely hypothetical. Yet it is perhaps worth noticing, that Maundrell, in his travels, found salt in the Valley of Salt, near Gehul, which had the appearance, but not the taste, having lost it by exposure to the elements (see the citation below); and that Schöttgen maintains that a kind of bitumen from the Dead Sea was called ‘sal Sodomiticus,’ and was used to sprinkle the sacrifices in the temple; which salt was used, when its savour was gone, to strew the temple pavement, that the priests might not slip. This, however, is but poorly made out by him, (Schöttgen, Hor. Hebr. in loc.) Dr. Thomson, ‘The Land and the Book,’ p. 381, mentions a case which came under his own observation: where a merchant of Sidon had stored up a quantity of salt in cottages with earthen floors, in consequence of which the salt was spoiled, and Dr. T. saw “large quantities of it literally thrown into the street, to be trodden under foot of men and beasts.” He adds, “It is a well-known fact that the salt of this country, when in contact with the ground, or exposed to rain and sun, does become insipid and useless. From the manner in which it is gathered, much earth and other impurities are necessarily collected with it. Not a little of it is so impure that it cannot be used at all: and such salt soon effloresces and turns to dust not to fruitful soil, however. It is not only good for nothing itself, but it actually destroys all fertility wherever it is thrown: and this is the reason why it is cast into the street.”
	 τῆς γῆς  ,  mankind and all creation: but with a more  inward reference, as to the working of the salt, than in τοῦ κόσμου , Matthew 5:14 , where the  light is something  outwardly shewn .
	 μωρανθῇ = ἄναλον γένηται , Mark 9:50 .
	 ἁλισθήσεται ] i.e. the salt; not impersonal, as Luther has rendered it,  womit wird man faizen ? ‘  wherewith shall salting be carried on? ’ for τὸ ἅλας is the nom. to all three verbs, μωρανθῇ , ἁλισθ ., and ἰσχύει . The sense is: ‘If you become untrue to your high calling, and spiritually effete and corrupted, there are no ordinary means by which you can be re-converted and brought back to your former state, inasmuch as you have no teachers and guides over you, but ought yourselves to be teachers and guides to others.’ But we must not from this suppose that our Lord denies all repentance to those who have thus fallen: the scope of His saying must be taken into account, which is not to crush the fallen, but to quicken the sense of duty, and cause His disciples to walk worthily of their calling. (See Hebrews 6:4-6 , and note on Mark 9:49-50 .) The  salt in the sacrifice is the type of God’s  covenant of sanctification , whereby this earth shall be again hallowed for Him: His people are the  instruments , in His hand, of this wholesome salting: all His servants in general, but the teachers and ministers of His covenant in particular. Chrysostom observes, οἱ μὲν γὰρ ἄλλοι μυριάκις πίπτοντες δύνανται τυχεῖν συγγνώμης · ὁ δὲ διδάσκαλος ἐὰν τοῦτο πάθῃ , πάσης ἀπεστέρηται ἀπολογίας , καὶ τὴν ἐσχάτην δώσει τιμωρίαν (Hom. xv. 7, p. 194). ἀπὸ τότε ἔξω ῥίπτεται τοῦ διδασκαλικοῦ ἀξιώματος , καὶ καταπατεῖται , τουτέστι καταφρονεῖται . Euthym [41] in loc. There does not appear to be any allusion to  ecclesiastical excommunication .
	 [41] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116