 3.   οἱ πτ  .   τῷ πν  . ] οὐκ εἶπεν , οἱ πτ . τοῖς χρήμασιν , ἀλλ ʼ, οἱ πτ . τῷ πνεύματι , τουτέστιν οἱ ταπεινοὶ τῇ προαιρέσει · καὶ τῇ ψυχῇ . Euthym [32] τί ἐστιν “ οἱ πτωχοὶ τῷ πνεύματι ;” οἱ ταπεινοὶ καὶ συντετριμμένοι τὴν καρδίαν . Chrysostom, Hom. xv. in Matthew 1:1-25 , vol. vii. p. 185. ‘Ne quis putaret paupertatem, quæ nonnunquam necessitate portatur, a Domino prædicari, adjunxit, spiritu, ut humilitatem intelligeres, non penuriam. Beati pauperes spiritu, qui propter Spiritum Sanctum voluntate sunt pauperes’ (Jerome in loc.). ‘Pauperes spiritu, humiles et timentes Deum, id est, non habentes inflantem (or, inflatum) spiritum’ (Augustine in loc.). Again: ‘Pauper Dei in animo est, non in sæculo’ (Aug [33] Enarr. in Ps. 131:26, vol. iv. pt. ii.).
	 [32] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [33]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 τῷ πν  . is in opposition to τῇ σαρκί : so ἀπερίτμητοι τῇ καρδίᾳ , Acts 7:51 ; ἁγία κ . τῷ σώματι κ . τῷ πνεύματι , 1 Corinthians 7:34 .
	These words cannot be joined with μακάριοι (as Olearius, Wets [34] ., Michaelis, Paulus): see Matthew 5:8 .
	 [34] Wetstein.
	The meaning of  voluntary poverty , as that of the religious orders, given by many Romish interpreters, is  out of the question . It seems however to have been adopted by many of the Fathers. Basil (on Psalms 33:5 , vol. i. p. 147) says, οὐκ ἀεὶ ἐπαινετὴ ἡ πτωχεία , ἀλλ ʼ ἡ  ἐκ προαιρέσεως κατὰ τὸν εὐαγγελικὸν σκοπὸν κατορθουμένη · πολλοὶ γὰρ πτωχοὶ μὲν τῇ περιουσίᾳ , πλεονεκτικώτατοι δὲ τῇ προαιρέσει τυγχάνουσιν . But the same father elsewhere explains the words, πτωχοὺς οὐ τοὺς κατὰ χρήματα ἐνδεεῖς λέγει , ἀλλὰ τοὺς  τῇ διανοίᾳ ἠλαττωμένους (vol. i. p. 597).
	And Chrys. himself seems to waver: for next to the comment above cited, he says πνεῦμα γὰρ ἐνταῦθα τὴν ψυχὴν καὶ τὴν προαίρεσιν λέγει . He probably however means that the ψ . and προαίρ . are the  departments of our being in which the πτωχεία takes place. See Clem. Alex [35] , ‘Quis dives salvus,’ § 17, p. 934, [36] .
	 [35] Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [36] By these symbols are designated the portions of two ancient MSS., discernible (as also are fragments of Ulphilas’ gothic version) under the later writing of a volume known as the Codex Carolinus in the Ducal Library at Wolfenbüttel. P (GUELPHERBYTANUS A) contains fragments of each of the Gospels. Q (GUELPH. B) fragments of Luke and John. Both are probably of the  sixth century . They were edited by F. A. Knittel in 1762; and, more thoroughly, by Tischendorf in 1860 [1869], Monumenta Sacra, vol. iii. [vi.]
	As little can the  bare literal sense of the words, which Julian scoffed at, be understood: viz. those who are  ill-furnished in mind , and uneducated. See Revelation 3:17 . The idea (De Wette) is not improbable, that our Lord may have had a reference to the poor and subjugated Jewish people around him, once members of the theocracy, and now expectants of the Messiah’s temporal kingdom; and, from their condition and hopes, taken occasion to preach to them the deeper spiritual truth.
	 αὐτῶν ἐστ  .   ἡ β  .   τ  .   οὐ  . ] See Luke 4:17-21 ; James 2:5 . The βασιλεία must here be understood in its widest sense: as the combination of all rights of Christian citizenship in this world, and eternal blessedness in the next, ch. Matthew 6:33 . But Tholuck well observes (Bergpredigt, p. 74 ff.), that all the senses of βασ . τ . θεοῦ (or οὐρ ., or χριστοῦ ) are only different sides of the same great idea the  subjection of all things to God in Christ . He cites from Origen (  περὶ εὐχῆς , 25, vol. i. p. 239): τῇ οὖν ἐν ἡμῖν βασιλείᾳ τοῦ θεοῦ ἡ ἀκρότης ἀδιαλείπτως προκόπτουσιν ἐνστήσεται , ὅταν πληρωθῇ τὸ παρὰ τῷ ἀποστόλῳ εἰρημένον , ὅτι ὁ χριστός , πάντων αὐτῷ τ . ἐχθρῶν ὑποταγέντων , παραδώσει τ . βασιλείαν τῷ θεῷ κ . πατρί , ἵνα ᾖ ὁ θεὸς τὰ πάντα ἐν πᾶσι .