 38. ] That is,  such was the public enactment of the Mosaic law , and, as such, it implied a private spirit of retaliation which should seek such redress; for the example evidently refers to  private as well as public retribution. Here again our Lord appears to speak of the  true status and perfection of a Christian community , not to forbid, in those mixed and but half-Christian states, which have ever divided so-called Christendom among them, the infliction of judicial penalties for crime. In fact Scripture speaks, Romans 13:4 , of  the minister of such infliction as the  minister of God . But as before, our Lord shews us the  condition to which a Christian community should  tend , and to further which every private Christian’s own endeavours should be directed. It is quite beside the purpose for the world to say, that these precepts of our Lord are too highly pitched for humanity, and so to find an excuse for violating them. If we were disciples of His in the true sense, these precepts would, in their  spirit , as indicative of frames of mind, be  strictly observed; and,  as far as we are His disciples, we shall  attain to such their observance .
	Here again, our Lord does not  contradict the Mosaic law, but  expands and  fulfils it, declaring to us that the necessity for it would be altogether removed in the complete state of that kingdom which He came to establish. Against the notion that  ὀφθ  .   ἀντὶ ὀφθ  . κ . τ . λ . sanctioned all kinds of private revenge, Augustine remarks, ‘Quandoquidem et illud antiquum ad reprimendas flammas odiorum, sævientiumque immoderatos animos refrænandos, ita præceptum est. Quis enim tantundem facile contentus est reponere vindictæ quantum accepit injuriæ? Nonne videmus homines leviter læsos moliri cædem, sitire sanguinem, vixque invenire in malis inimici unde satientur?… Huic igitur immoderatæ et per hoc injustæ ultioni lex justum modum figens, pœnam talionis instituit: hoc est ut qualem quisque intulit injuriam, tale supplicium pendat. Proinde, “Oculum pro oculo, dentem pro dente,” non fomes sed limes furoris est; non ut id quod sopitum erat inde accenderetur, sed ne id quod ardebat ultra extenderetur impositus.’ Cont. Faust [50] xix. 25, vol. viii. See 1 Corinthians 6:1-6 . The accusatives ὀφθαλμόν , ὀδόντα are perhaps in ref. Exod. governed by δώσει , which immediately precedes them. But it may be noticed, that in ref. Levit., where the construction would require nominatives, we have the saying, as a proverb, in the accusative form. In ref. Deut., the case is exactly as here.
	 [50]  Faustus the Manichee, cited by Aug.