 33, 34. ] The exact meaning of these verses is to be ascertained by two considerations. (1) That the Jews held all those oaths  not to be binding , in which  the sacred name of God did not directly occur: as Philo states (De Special. Legg. ad 3, 4, 5 decal. cap. § 1, vol. ii. p. 271), προσλαβέτω τις , εἰ βούλοιτο , μὴ μὲν τὸ ἀνωτάτω καὶ πρεσβύτατον εὐθὺς αἴτιον , ἀλλὰ γῆν , ἥλιον , ἀστέρας , οὐρανόν , τὸν σύμπαντα κόσμον . And Lightfoot (Hor. Hebr. ad locum) cites from the Rabbinical books, ‘Si quis jurat per cœlum, per terram, per solem, etc.… non est juramentum.’ See note, ch. Matthew 23:16 . It therefore appears that a stress is to be laid on this technical distinction in the quotation made by our Lord; and we must understand as belonging to the quotation, ‘but whatever thou shalt swear not to the Lord may be transgressed.’ (2) Then our Lord passes so far beyond this rule, that He lays down (including in it the understanding that all oaths must be kept  if made , for that they are all ultimately referable to swearing by God) the rule of the Christian community, which is  not to swear at all; for that every such means of strengthening a man’s simple affirmation arises out of the evil in human nature, is rendered requisite by the distrust that sin has induced, and is, therefore, out of the question among the just and true and pure of heart. See James 5:12 , and note there, as explanatory why, in both cases, swearing by the name of God is not specified as forbidden. In the words, ‘Swear not at all,’ our Lord does not so much make a positive enactment by which all swearing is to individuals forbidden, e.g. on solemn occasions, and for the satisfaction of others, (for that would be a mere technical Pharisaism wholly at variance with the spirit of the Gospel, and inconsistent with the example of  God himself , Hebrews 6:13-17 ; Hebrews 7:21 ;  of the Lord when on earth , whose ἀμὴν ἀμὴν λέγω ὑμῖν was a solemn asseveration, and who at once respected the solemn adjuration of Caiaphas, ch. Matthew 26:63-64 ; of  His Apostles , writing under the guidance of His Spirit, see Galatians 1:20 ; 2 Corinthians 1:23 ; Romans 1:9 ; Philippians 1:8 , and especially 1 Corinthians 15:31 ; of  His holy angels , Revelation 10:6 ,) as declare to us, that the  proper state of Christians is, to  require no oaths; that when τὸ πονηρόν is expelled from among them, every ναί and οὐ will be as decisive as an oath, every promise as binding as a vow. We observe ( α ) that these verses imply the unfitness of  vows of every kind as rules of Christian action; ( β ) that the greatest regard ought to be had to the scruples of those, not only sects, but individuals, who object to taking an oath, and every facility given in a Christian state for their ultimate entire abolition. There is a very full account in Tholuck, Bergpredigt, pp. 258 75, of the history of opinions on this question.