 23 f.   οὖν ] an inference from the guilt and danger of all bitterness and hostility of mind towards another, declared in the preceding verse. Chrysostom remarks: καθάπερ σοφὸς ἰατρὸς οὐ μόνον τὰ προφυλακτικὰ τῶν νοσημάτων τίθησιν , ἀλλὰ καὶ τὰ διορθωτικά , οὕτω καὶ αὐτὸς ποιεῖ . τὸ μὲν γὰρ κωλύειν καλεῖν μωρόν , προφυλακτικόν ἐστι τῆς ἔχθρας · τὸ δὲ κελεύειν καταλλαγῆναι , τῶν μετὰ τήν ἔχθραν γενομένων νοσημάτων ἀναιρετικόν . Hom. xvi. 10, p. 218. The whole of his comment on this verse is excellent. The  δῶρον is any kind of gift sacrificial or eucharistic.
	 ἔχει τὶ κατὰ σοῦ is remarkable, as being purposely substituted for the converse. It is not  what complaints we have against others that we are to consider at such a time, but  what they have against us; not what ground  we have given for complaint, but what complaints  they , as matter of fact,  make against us. See the other side dealt with, Mark 11:25 .
	Tholuck has shewn at length (p. 187, ff.) that the distinction attempted to be set up between διαλλάσσω as implying a  mutual , and καταλλάσσω , a merely  one-sided reconciliation, has no foundation in fact. Our διαλλάγηθι is simply  become reconciled  thyself , without being influenced by the status of the other towards thee. Remove the offence, and make friendly overtures to thy brother.  πρῶτον belongs to ὕπαγε , not to διαλλάγηθι , (1) because ὕπ . πρῶτον is opposed to τότε ἐλθών , the  departure to the  return , not διαλλάγηθι to πρόσφερε ; (2) by the analogy of the usage of such adverbs with imperatives. Compare ch. Mat 7:5 and the similar passage, Luke 6:42 ; ch. Matthew 6:33 ; Matthew 13:30 : Mark 7:27 . No conclusion whatever can be drawn from this verse as to the admissibility of the term  altar as applied to the Lord’s Table under the Christian system. The whole language is Jewish, and can only be understood of Jewish rites. The  command , of course, applies in full force as to reconciliation before the Christian offering of praise and thanksgiving in the Holy Communion; but further nothing can be inferred.