 17.   ἦλθον ] Observe how our Lord, through the whole sermon, sets forth Himself, in his proceeding forth from God, as  the true ἐρχόμενος .
	 τὸν ν  .   ἢ τοὺς προφ ] It is a question whether our Lord includes the  prophecies , properly so called, in His meaning here. I think  not: for no person professing himself to be the Messiah would be thought to  contradict the prophecies , but  to fulfil them . Neither, it appears, does He  here allude to the  sacrificial and  typical parts of the law, but to the  moral parts of both the law and the prophets; which indeed he proceeds to cite and particularize. If however we prefer to include both ceremonial and moral in this assertion, we may understand it in its more general sense, as applying, beyond the instances here given, to His typical fulfilment of the law, which could not as yet be unfolded. Thus Augustine: ‘Hæc præcepta sunt morum; illa sacramenta sunt promissorum: hæc implentur per adjuvantem gratiam, illa per redditam veritatem, utraque per Christum, et illam semper gratiam donantem, nunc etiam revelantem, et hanc veritatem tunc promittentem, nunc exhibentem.’ Contra Faust [43] xix. 18, vol. viii. Much unnecessary question has been raised (see Thol. Bergpred. edn. 3, p. 132 f.) respecting the ἤ , whether or not it can have the sense of καί . It is simply the  disjunctive conjunction necessary in order to apply the καταλῦσαι to each severally, which would naturally be replaced by the  copulative , where an  affirmative assertion respecting the same two things is made.
	 [43]  Faustus the Manichee, cited by Aug.
	 πληρῶσαι implies more than the  mere fulfilling: see reff., where the word has the sense of filling out or expanding; i.e. here, giving a deeper and holier sense to fulfilling in the  spirit , which is nobler than the letter. Theophylact compares the ancient law to a  sketch , which the painter οὐ καταλύει , ἀλλ ʼ ἀναπληροῖ … τοῦ νόμου γὰρ τὰ τέλη τῶν ἁμαρτημάτων κωλύοντος , ὁ χριστὸς καὶ τὰς ἀρχὰς ἐκώλυσεν . Euthym [44] in loc. ἐπεὶ ὁ χριστὸς οὔτε ἐξ ἱερατικῆς φυλῆς ἐτύγχανεν ὤν , καὶ ἅπερ ἔμελλεν εἰσηγεῖσθαι προσθήκη τις ἦν , οὐ μὴν ἐλαττοῦσα ἀλλ ʼ ἐπιτείνουσα τὴν ἀρετήν · προειδὼς ἀμφότερα ταῦτα μέλλοντα αὐτοὺς ταράττειν , πρὶν ἢ τοὺς θαυμαστοὺς ἐκείνους ἐγγράψαι νόμους , ἐκβάλλει τὸ μέλλον αὐτῶν ὑφορμεῖν τῇ διανοίᾳ . τί δὲ ἦν τὸ ὑφορμοῦν καὶ ἀντικροῦον ; ἐνόμιζον αὐτὸν ταῦτα λέγοντα ἐπ ʼ ἀνχιρέσει τῶν παλαιῶν νομίμων ποιεῖν . ταύτην τοίνυν ἰᾶται τὴν ὑπόνοιαν . Chrysost. Hom. xvi. 1, p. 203. See a history of the exegesis of the word in Thol. edn. 3, p. 135. The gnostic Marcion characteristically enough maintained that the Judaizing Christians had altered this verse, and that it originally stood, τί δοκεῖτε , ὅτι ἦλθον πληρῶσαι τὸν νόμον ἢ τοὺς προφήτας ; ἦλθον καταλῦσαι , ἀλλ ʼ οὐ πληρῶσαι .
	 [44] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116