 22. ] The sense is: ‘There were among the Jews three well-known degrees of guilt, coming respectively under the cognizance of the local and the supreme courts; and after these is set the γέεννα τοῦ πυρός , the end of the malefactor, whose corpse, thrown out into the valley of Hinnom, was devoured by the worm or the flame. Similarly, in the spiritual kingdom of Christ, shall the sins even of thought and word be brought into judgment and punished, each according to its degree of guilt, but even the least of them before no less a tribunal than the judgment-seat of Christ.’ The most important thing to keep in mind is, that there is no distinction of  kind between these punishments, only of  degree . In the thing compared, the κρίσις inflicted death by the sword, the συνέδριον death by stoning, and the disgrace of the γέεννα τοῦ πυρός followed as an intensification of the horrors of death; but the punishment is one and the same  death . So also in the subject of the similitude,  all the punishments are spiritual; all result in eternal death; but with  various degrees (the nature of which is as yet hidden from us), as the degrees of guilt have been. So that the distinction drawn by the Romanists between  venial and mortal sins, finds not only no countenance, but direct confutation from this passage. The words here mentioned must not be superstitiously supposed to have any damning power in themselves (see below), but to represent  states of anger and hostility , for which an awful account hereafter must be given.
	(On  εἰκῆ (see var. readd.) Euthymius remarks: προσθεὶς δὲ τὸ εἰκῆ , οὐκ ἀνεῖλε παντάπασι τὴν ὀργήν , ἀλλὰ μόνην τὴν ἄκαιρον ἐξέβαλεν · ἡ γὰρ εὔκαιρος ὠφέλιμος . Grotius: ‘Merito εἰκῆ additum. Neque enim iracundus est quisquis irasci solet, sed qui oh οἷς οὐ δεῖ , καὶ ἐφ ʼ οἷς οὐ δεῖ , καὶ μᾶλλον ἢ δεῖ , ut Aristoteles loquitur.’) On the sense, cf. 1 John 3:15 .
	 ῥακά ] רַיקָא  empty; a term denoting contempt, and answering to ὦ ἄνθρωπε κενέ , James 2:20 . On the α representing the יֵ , see Tholuck’s note p. 172, edn. 3.
	 μωρέ ] Two interpretations have been given of this word. Either it is (1), as usually understood, a Greek word, ‘  Thou fool ,’ and used by our Lord Himself of the Scribes and Pharisees, ch. Matthew 23:17 ; Matthew 23:19 , and its equivalent ἀνόητοι of the disciples, Luke 24:25 ; or (2) a Hebrew word, signifying ‘  rebel ,’ and the very word for uttering which Moses and Aaron were debarred from entering the land of promise: … שִׁמְעוּ־נָא הַמֹּרִים : ‘Hear now, ye rebels.’ Numbers 20:10 . “Others take the Greek word, according to the Hebrew usage of נָבָל , in the sense of ἄθεος . So Phavorinus: εἴρηται καὶ ἐπὶ τοῦ ἀθέου καὶ ἀπίστου .” Thol. p. 174.
	 ἔνοχ  .   εἰς is perhaps a pregnant construction for ἔνοχος ὥστε βληθῆναι εἰς : but see reff.
	 τ  .   γέενναν τοῦ π  . ] To the S.E. of Jerusalem was a deep and fertile valley, called נֵּי הִנּוֹם , ‘  the vale of Hinnom ,’ and rendered Γαίεννα , Joshua 18:16 , LXX. In this valley (also called Tophet, Isaiah 30:33 ; Jer 7:31 ) did the idolatrous Jews burn their children to Moloch, and Josiah ( 2Ki 23:10 ) therefore polluted it; and thenceforward it was the place for the casting out and burning all offal, and the corpses of criminals; and therefore its name, ἡ γέεννα τοῦ πυρός , was used to signify the place of everlasting punishment.