 32. ]  πορνείας must be taken to mean sin, not only before marriage, but after it also, in a wider sense, as including μοιχεία likewise. In the similar places, Mark 10:11 ; Luke 16:18 , this exception does not occur; see however our ch. Matthew 19:9 . Chrysostom explains the connexion of this verse with the former to be, ἵνα γὰρ μὴ ἀκούσας Ἔξελε τὸν ὀφθαλμόν , νομίσῃς καὶ περὶ γυναικὸς ταῦτα λέγεσθαι , εὐκαίρως ἐπήγαγε τὴν ἐπιδιόρθωσιν ταύτην , ἑνὶ τρόπῳ μόνῳ συγχωρῶν ἐκβάλλειν αὐτήν , ἑτέρῳ δὲ οὐδενί . Hom. xvii. 4, p. 228. The figurative senses of πορνεία cannot be admissible here, as the law is one having reference to a definite point in actual life; and this its aim and end restricts the meaning to that kind of πορνεία immediately applicable to the case. Otherwise this one strictly guarded exception would give indefinite and universal latitude.
	 ποιεῖ αὐτ  .   μοιχ  . ] ‘Per alias nuptias, quarum potestatem dat divortium.’ Bengel.
	 καὶ ὃς ἐάν ] How far  the marriage of the innocent party after separation (on account of πορνεία )  is forbidden by this or the similar passage ch. Matthew 19:9 , is a weighty and difficult question. By the Roman Church such marriage is  strictly forbidden , and the authority of Augustine much cited, who strongly upholds this view, but not without misgivings later in life. ‘Scripsi duos libros de conjugiis adulterinis, … cupiens solvere difficillimam quæstionem. Quod utrum enodatissime fecerim nescio; immo vero non me pervenisse ad hujus rei perfectionem sentio.’ Retract. ii. 57, vol. i. On the other hand, the Protestant and Greek Churches  allow such marriage. Certainly it would appear, from the literal meaning of our Lord’s words (if ἀπολελ . be taken as perfectly general), that it  should not be allowed: for if by such divorce the marriage be altogether dissolved, how can the  woman be said μοιχᾶσθαι by a second marriage? or how will St. Paul’s precept ( 1Co 7:11 ) find place, in which he says, ἐὰν δὲ καὶ χωρισθῇ , μενέτω ἄγαμος ἢ τῷ ἀνδρὶ καταλλαγήτω ? for stating this as St. Paul does, prefaced by the words οὐκ ἐγώ , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ κύριος , it must be understood, and has been taken, as  referring to this very verse , or rather (see note in loc.) to ch. Matthew 19:6 ff., and consequently can only suppose πορνεία as the cause. Besides which, the tenor of our Lord’s teaching in other places (see above) seems to set before us the state of marriage as absolutely  indissoluble as such , however he may sanction the expulsion  a mensâ et thoro of an unfaithful wife. Those who defend the other view suppose the ἀπολελυμένην to mean, when  unlawfully divorced,  not for πορνεία : and certainly this is not improbable (see below). We may well leave a matter in doubt, of which Augustine could write thus: ‘In ipsis divinis sententiis ita obscurum est utrum et iste, cui quidem sine dubio adulteram licet dimittere, adulter tamen habeatur si alteram duxerit, ut, quantum existimo, venialiter ibi quisque fallatur.’ De Fide atq. Op [49] c. 19 (35), vol. vi. Meyer gives as a reason for believing ἀπολελ . to refer only to the  unlawfully divorced: “ ἀπολελ . is not qualified (cf. παρεκτὸς λόγου πορνείας ), because the  punishment of death was attached to adultery (Leviticus 20:10 ; Michaelis, Mos. Recht § 260 ff.), and consequently under the law the marrying a woman divorced for adultery could never happen.” Stier says in a note to his 2nd edn.: “We hold it clear that ἀπολ . can only refer to the woman unlawfully divorced, and then there is no prohibition of the second marriage of one divorced on account of adultery; we see here nothing at all ‘obscurum,’ as Augustine in the passage cited by Alford.” (I may remark, that  ἀπολελυμένην is most naturally rendered, “  her, when divorced: ” not “  a divorced woman ,” as Wordsw. It is a secondary predicate, of which the subject is to be supplied out of αὐτήν above. Still less of course is it to be rendered “the divorced woman,” τὴν ἀπολελυμένην . And thus understood, the saying concerning marriage after divorce applies only,  as far as this passage is concerned, to  unlawful divorce, not to that after πορνεία .)
	 [49]  Opus Imperfectum in Matthæum , cent y . xi.