 7. ]  γάρ refers back to and gives a reason for κατακαλυπτέσθω , the difference between the sexes being assumed, that one  should be and the other should  not be veiled. The emphasis is accordingly on  ἀνήρ .
	 οὐκ ὀφείλει ,  should not, ought not : see reff.
	 εἰκὼν θεοῦ , ref. Gen. This the  man is, having been created first,  directly , and in a special manner: the woman indirectly, only  through the man .
	 κ  .   δόξα θ .]  And the (representative of the)  glory of God : on account of his superiority and  godlike attributes among other created beings. This is obviously  the point here brought out, as in Psalms 8:6 ; not, that he is  set to shew forth God’s glory ( εἰς γὰρ δόξαν θεοῦ ὀφείλει ὁ ἀνὴρ ὑποτετάχθαι τῷ θεῷ , Phot [46] in Œcum.), however true that may be: nor, as Estius, from Augustine, ‘  quia in illo Deus gloriatur:’ nor is δόξα the representative of the Heb. דְּמוּת , Genesis 1:26 ( ὁμοίωσις ) , as Rϋckert, al., suppose, because the LXX have rendered תְּמוּנָה , Numbers 12:8 ; Psalms 17:15 , by δόξα : for, as Meyer observes, in so well-known a passage as Genesis 1:26 , the Apostle could hardly fail to have used the LXX word ὁμοίωσις .
	 [46] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	 Man is  God’s glory : He has put in him His Majesty, and he represents God on earth:  woman is  man’s glory : taken ( 1Co 11:8 ) from the  man , shining (to follow out Grotius’s similitude, “minus aliquid vero, ut luna lumen minus sole”) not with light direct from God, but with light derived from  man , “ τὸ θῆλυ , ἄῤῥεν ἀτελές , philosophis. Imperat materfamilias suæ familiæ, sed viri nomine.” Grot. This of course is true only as regards her place in creation, and her providential subordination, not in respect of the dependence of every woman’s individual soul directly on God,  not on man , for supplies of grace and preparations for glory. The Apostle omits εἰκών , because anthropologically the woman is not the  image of the man, on account of the difference of the sexes: and also perhaps because thus he would seem to deny to the woman the being created in the  divine image, which she is as well as the man, Genesis 1:26-27 . The former reason appears the more probable: and so De W. and Meyer. “It may be observed that, whereas in Genesis the general character of man under the Hebrew name answering to ἄνθρωπος is the only one brought forward, here it is merged in the word ἀνήρ , which only expresses his relation to the woman.” Stanley.