 3. ] “It appears, that the Christian women at Corinth claimed for their sex an equality with the other, taking occasion by the doctrine of Christian freedom and abolition of sexual distinctions in Christ ( Gal 3:28 ). The gospel unquestionably did much for the emancipation of women, who in the East and among the Ionian Greeks (not among the Dorians and the Romans) were kept in unworthy dependence. Still this was effected in a quiet and gradual manner; whereas in Corinth they seem to have taken up the cause of female independence somewhat too eagerly. The women over-stepped the bounds of their sex, in coming forward to pray and to prophesy in the assembled church with uncovered heads. Both of these the Apostle disapproved, as well their coming forward to pray and to prophesy, as their removing the veil: here however he blames the latter practice only, and reserves the former till ch. 1 Corinthians 14:34 . In order to confine the women to their true limits, he reminds them of their subjection to the  man , to whom again he assigns his place in the spiritual order of creation, and traces this precedence up to God Himself.” De Wette.
	 παντὸς ἀνδρός ] ‘of every  Christian man’ (as Chrys., al., Meyer, De W.), certainly, and for such the Apostle was writing: but not  only of every Christian man: the Headship of Christ is  over all things to His Church, Ephesians 1:22 , and thus He is Head of  every man . The word κεφαλή in each case means the head  next above . This must be borne in mind, for Christ is THE HEAD of the Christian  woman , as well as of the Christian  man . God is the Head of Christ, not  only according to His human Nature: the Son is,  in his Sonship , necessarily  subordinate to the Father : see ch. 1 Corinthians 3:23 , note, and ch. 1 Corinthians 15:28 . From χριστός , the order  descends first: then, in order to complete the whole,  ascends up to God.
	Observe that though ( Gal 3:28 ) the distinction of the sexes is  abolished in Christ,  as far as the offer of and standing in grace is concerned, yet for  practical purposes , and for  order and  seemliness , it  subsists and  must be observed .