 16. ] Cuts off the subject, already abundantly decided, with a settlement of any possible difference, by appeal to universal apostolic and ecclesiastic custom.  But if any man seems to be contentious (i.e. ‘if any arises who appears to dispute the matter, who seems not satisfied with the  reasons I have given, but is still disputatious;’ this is the only admissible sense of δοκεἶ in this construction: see reff.: for the meaning, ‘  if it pleases any one, ’ &c. would require τινι δοκεῖ : and ‘  if any one thinks that he may ,’ &c. would not agree with φιλονεικεῖν , which is in itself  wrong ).
	 ἡμεῖς ] declarative:  let him know that …; so, εἰ δὲ κατακαυχᾶσαι , οὐ σὺ τὴν ῥίζαν βαστάζεις , ἀλλ ʼ ἡ ῥίζα σέ , Romans 11:18 .  We , the Apostles and their immediate company, including the women who assembled in prayer and supplication with them at their various stations, see Acts 16:13 .
	 τοιαύτην συνήθειαν ] The best modern Commentators, e.g. Meyer and De Wette, agree with Chrys. in understanding this, τοιαύτ . συνήθ ., ὥστε φιλονεικεῖν κ . ἐρίζειν κ . ἀντιτάττεσθαι . p. 235. And so Ambrose, Beza, Calvin, Estius, Calov., al. But surely it would be very unlikely, that after  so long a treatment of a particular subject , the Apostle should wind up all by merely a censure of a fault  common to their behaviour on  this and all the other matters of dispute. Such a rendering seems to me almost to  stultify the conclusion : ‘If any will dispute about it still, remember that it is neither our practice, nor that of the Churches,  to dispute .’ It would seem to me, but for the weighty names on the other side, hardly to admit of a question, that the συνήθεια alludes to  the practice (see ref. John)  of women praying uncovered . So Theodoret, Grot. Michaelis, Rosenm., Billroth, Olsh., al., and Theophyl. altern. He thus cuts off all further disputation on the matter by  appealing to universal Christian usage : and to make the appeal more solemn, adds  τοῦ θεοῦ to αἱ ἐκκλ ., the assemblies which are held in honour of and for prayer to God, and are  His own Churches . Obs.  αἱ ἐκκλησί  αι , not  ἡ ἐκκλησί  α . The  plurality of independent testimonies to the absence of the custom , is that on which the stress is laid. This appeal, ‘to THE CHURCHES,’ was much heard again at the Reformation: but has since been too much forgotten. See, on the influence of this passage on the Christian church, the general remarks of Stanley, edn. 2, pp. 198 200.