 10. ]  διὰ τοῦτο ,  on account of what has just been said , by which the subordination of the woman has been proved: refers to 1 Corinthians 11:7-9 , not as Meyer, to 1Co 11:9 only: for 1 Corinthians 11:8-9 , give two parallel reasons for γυνὴ δόξα ἀνδρός , the inference from which proposition  has not get been given , but now follows, with  ὀφείλει answering to  οὐκ ὀφείλει above.
	 ὀφ  .   ἡ γ  .   ἐξουσίαν ἔχ  .   ἐπὶ τῆς κεφ .]  The woman ought to have power (the  sign of power or  subjection ; shewn by the context to mean  a veil ). So Diodor. Sic. i. 47: εἰκόνα … εἴκοσι πηχῶν , μονόλιθον , ἔχουσαν τρεῖς βασιλείας ἐπὶ τῆς κεφαλῆς , ἃς διασημαίνειν ὅτι καὶ θυγάτηρ καὶ γυνὴ καὶ μήτηρ βασιλέως ὕπηρξε , where βασίλειαι evidently are  crowns , the  tokens of kingdom . And as there from the context it is plain that they indicated  participation in the glory of the kingdoms, so here it is as evident from the context that the token of ἐξουσία indicates being  under power: and such token is the covering. So Chrys. ( τὸ καλύπτεσθαι , ὑποταγῆς κ . ἐξουσίας ), Theodoret, Theophyl. ( τὸ τοῦ ἐξουσιάζεσθαι σύμβολον ), Œcum., Beza, Grot., Est., Bengel, Wolf, al., Billrot h, Rϋckert, Olsh., Meyer, De Wette. To enumerate the various renderings would be impossible. Some of the principal are, (1) a sign of  power to pray and prophesy in public, bestowed on her by her husband . So Schrader, iv. 158: but this would be quite irrelevant to the context. (2) Some suppose ἐξουσίαν actually to mean  a veil, because the Heb. רָדִיד , ‘a veil,’ comes from the root רָדַד , ‘  subjecit .’ So Hammond, Le Clerc, al. But (see Lexx.) ‘  subjecit ’ is not the primary, only a tropical meaning: the primary meaning, ‘  extendit, diduxit ,’ is much more likely to have given rise to the substantive. It is certainly a curious coincidence that the Heb.  terms should be thus allied, and that alliance may have been  present to the Apostle’s thoughts : but this does not shew that he used ἐξουσία  for a veil . (3) Kypke would put a comma after ἐξους ., and render ‘  propterea mulier potestali obnoxia est, ita ut velamen (see  1Co 11:4 )  in capite habeat .’ But the sense of ὀφείλειν τι would require (see Lexx.) ὑπακοήν , not ἐξουσίαν . (4) Pott renders, ‘  mulierem oportet servare jus (sive potestatem) in caput suum , sc.  eo, quod illud velo obtegat .’ But this, though philologically allowable (see Revelation 11:6 ; Revelation 20:6 ; Revelation 14:18 ; and with ἐπάνω , Luk 19:17 ), is entirely against the context, in which the woman has  no power over her own head, and  on that very account is to be covered . (5) Hagenbach (in the Stud. und Krit. 1828, p. 401) supposes ἐξουσία here to mean  her origin , ἐξ - οὐσία from ἐξ - εἰμι , as παρ - οὐσία from παρ - εἰμι : to shew that she ( 1Co 11:8 ) ἐστιν ἐξ ἀνδρός . But apart from other objections to this, it must thus be,  τὴν ἐξ . or  τὴν ἐξ .  αὐτῆς . Other renderings and conjectures may be seen in Meyer’s note, from which the above is mainly taken: and in Stanley’s.
	 διὰ τοὺς ἀγγέλους ]  On account of the angels : i.e. because in the Christian assemblies the holy angels of God are present, and delighting in the due order and subordination of the ranks of God’s servants, and by a violation of that order we should be giving offence to them. See ref. So Chrys. ( οὐκ οἶδας ὅτι μετ ʼ ἀγγέλων ἕστηκας ; μετ ʼ ἐκείνων ᾄδεις , μετ ʼ ἐκείνων ὑμνεῖς , καὶ ἕστηκας γελῶν ; cited by Hammond, but from what work of Chrys. I have not been able to find. In his commentary on this passage he is not clear, but seems to take this view, εἰ γὰρ τοῦ ἀνδρὸς καταφρονεῖς , φησί , τοὺς ἀγγέλους αἰδέσθητι , Hom. xxvi. p. 234. In the Hom. on the Ascension, vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 443 (Migne), he says, εἰ βούλει ἰδεῖν κ . μάρτυρας κ . ἀγγέλους ἄνοιξον τῆς πίστεως τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς , κ . ὄψει τὸ θέατρον ἐκεῖνο · εἰ γὰρ πῶς ὁ ἀὴρ ἀγγέλων ἐμπέπλησται , πολλῷ μᾶλλον ἡ ἐκκλησία … ὅτι γὰρ ἅπας ὁ ἀὴρ ἀγγέλων ἐμπέπλησται , ἄκουσον τί φησιν ὁ ἀπόστολος , ἐντρέπων τὰς γυναῖκας ὥστε ἔχειν κάλυμμα ἐπὶ τῆς κεφαλῆς · “ ὀφείλουσιν κ . τ . λ .”), Grot. (whose note see in Pool), Estius, Wolf, Rückert, Meyer, De Wette. (1) Others, with a modification of this rendering, take τοὺς ἀγγέλους as the  guardian angels , appointed, one to take charge of each Christian. So Theophyl. ( τὸ ἀνακεκαλύφθαι ἀναισχυντίαν ἐμφαίνει · ἣν καὶ οἱ τοῖς πιστοῖς παρεπόμενοι ἄγγελοι βδελύσσονται ), Jerome (not Aug [47] de Trin. xii. 7, as Meyer, see below), Tbeodoret. But, though such angels  certainly do minister to the heirs of salvation, see Matthew 18:10 , and note, there does not appear to be any immediate allusion to them  here . (2) Others again understand ‘  bad angels ,’ who might  themselves be lustfully excited; so Tertull. de Virg. Vel. 7, vol. ii. p. 899, “propter angelos: scilicet quos legimus a Deo et cœlo excidisse ob concupiscentiam fœminarum.” See also cont. Marcion. 1 Corinthians 11:8 , p. 488, or might  tempt men so to be , Schöttgen, Mosh, al., or might  injure the unveiled themselves : so, after Rabbinical notions, Wetst. But οἱ ἄγγελοι ,  absol ., never means any thing in the N. T. except  the holy angels of God . See, in Stanley’s note, a modification of this view, which is consistent with that meaning. (3) Clem [48] Alex. fragm. ix. ὑποτυπ . lib. iii. (p. 1004 P.) says, ἀγγέλους φησὶ τοὺς δικαίους , κ . ἐναρέτους . (4) Beza, the Christian  prophets , “in cœtu loquentes ut Dei nuncios et legatos.” (5) Ambrose, the  presidents of the assemblies . (6) Lightf., the  angeli or  nuntii desponsatiomum , persons deputed to bring about  betrothals . (7) Rosenm., Schrader, and many others,  exploratores vel  speculatores : “Poterat nempe novæ consuetudinis notitia per ἀπίστους speculatores in publicum emanare, christianasque uxores tum Judæis, de isto mulierum habitu pessime existimantibus, tum Græcis quoque in suspicionem rei christianæ probrosissimam adducere.” Rosenm.
	 [47]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [48] Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	Against all these ingenious interpretations is the plain sense of οἱ ἄγγελοι (Matthew 13:49 . Mark 1:13 .Luke 16:22; Luke 16:22 . chap. 1 Chronicles 2:18; 1 Chronicles 2:181 Chronicles 2:18 . Hebrews 1:4-5 ; Hebrews 1:7 ; Hebrews 1:13 , al.), which appears to me irrefragable.
	But still a question remains, WHY  should the Apostle have here named the angels, and adduced them as furnishing a reason for women being veiled in the Christian assemblies ? Bengel has given an acute, but not I believe the correct answer: “mulier se  tegat propter angelos, i.e. quia etiam angeli teguntur. Sicut ad Deum se habent angeli: sic ad virum se habet mulier. Dei facies patet: velantur angeli: Esa. 1 Corinthians 6:2 . Viri facies patet: velatur mulier.” Surely this lies  too far off for any reader to supply without further specification. Aug [49] de Trin. xii. 7 (10), vol. viii. p. 1004, gives an ingenious reason: “Grata est enim sanctis angelis sacrata et pia significatio. Nam Deus non ad tempus videt, nec aliquid novi fit in Ejus visione atque scientia, cum aliquid temporaliter aut transitorie geritur, sicut inde afficiuntur sensus vel carnales animalium et hominum, vel etiam cœlestes angelorum.” (He makes no mention, see above, of  guardian angels.) I believe the account given above to be the true one, and the  reason of adducing it to be, that the Apostle  has before his mind the order of the universal church , and prefers when speaking of the assemblies of Christians, to adduce those beings who, as not entering into the gradation which he has here described, are conceived as  spectators of the whole, delighted with the decency and order of the servants of God. Stanley thinks the most natural explanation of the reference to be, that the Apostle was led to it by a train of association familiar to his readers, but lost to us: and compares the intimations of a similar familiarity on their part with the subjects of which he was treating in 2 Thessalonians 2:5-7 .
	 [49]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430