 18. ]  πρῶτον where is the  second particular founda, nswering to this πρῶτον ? Ordinarily, it is assumed that the σχίσματα are the  first abuse, the disorders in the Agapæ (beginning with 1Co 11:20 ), the  second . But I am convinced, with Meyer, that this view is wrong. For (1) neither special blame, nor correction of abuse, is conveyed in 1 Corinthians 11:18-19 ; nor is it so much as intimated, on the ordinary hypothesis, what the character of these σχίσματα was. And (2) the words of 1 Corinthians 11:22 , ἐπαινέσω ὑμᾶς ἐν τούτῳ ; οὐκ ἐπαινῶ , plainly refer back to 1 Corinthians 11:17 , and shew that the whole is continuous. Again (3) the οὖν of 1 Corinthians 11:20 , as so frequently, see ch. 1 Corinthians 8:4 , and Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 22,  resumes the subject broken off by καὶ μέρος … γέν . ἐν ὑμῖν . The  σχίσματα before the Apostle’s mind are,  specifically , those occurring at the Agapæ, but on the mention of them, he breaks off to shew that such divisions were to be no matters of surprise, but were ordained to test them, and in 1Co 11:20 he returns with the very words, συνερχομένων ὑμῶν , to the immediate matter in hand, and treats it at length. See more on 1 Corinthians 11:21 ff.
	But the question still remains, where is the  second point, answering to this πρῶτον ? Again with Meyer (and Macknight) I answer,  at ch. 1 Corinthians 12:1 . The ABUSE OF SPIRITUAL GIFTS,  which also created disorder in their assemblies , ch. 1Co 14:23 al., and concerning which he concludes, 1 Corinthians 14:40 , πάντα εὐσχημόνως κ . κατὰ τάξιν γινέσθω , was the  other point before his mind, when he wrote this πρῶτον . That he takes no notice in ch. 1 Corinthians 12:1 , by any ἔπειτα δέ or the like, of what has gone before, will be no objection to the above view to any one but the merest tiro in our Apostle’s style.
	There is a trajection of the ἀκούω , which, in the sense, precedes συνερχ ., &c.
	 ἐν ἐκκλ .] in assembly; not  local , as E. V., ‘  in the church ,’ but = ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτό , 1 Corinthians 11:20 . [In 1 Corinthians 11:16 , where the word is used of distinct bodies of Christians, it was not possible to keep the word  assemblies , but it should be done whenever the sense admits it, and it suits the matter in hand].
	 σχίσματα ]  of what sort , is specified below; viz. that he does not here refer to the party dissensions of ch. 1 Corinthians 1:10 , nor could he say of them μέρος τι πιστεύω , but strictly to σχίσματα which took place  at their meetings together , viz. that each takes before other his own supper, &c. So Chrys.: οὐ λέγει , ἀκούω γὰρ μὴ κοινῇ ὑμᾶς συνδειπνεῖν · ἀκούω κατ ʼ ἰδίαν ὑμᾶς ἑστιᾶσθαι , καὶ μὴ μετὰ τῶν πενήτων · ἀλλ ʼ ὃ μάλιστα ἱκανὸν ἦν αὐτῶν διασεῖσαι τὴν διάνοιαν , τοῦτο τέθεικε , τὸ τοῦ σχίσματος ὄνομα , ὃ καὶ τούτου ἦν αἴτιον , Hom. xxvii. p. 241; and Theophyl., Œc [50] , Est., Pise., Grot., which last remarks, ‘Accidebat jam illis temporibus, quod nostris multo magis evenit, ut res in stituta ad concorporandos fideles in vexillum schismatis verteretur.’
	 [50] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 κ  .   μέρος τι πιστ .] Said in gentleness: q. d. “I am unwilling to believe  all I hear concerning the point, but  some (hardly ‘  much ,’ ‘  in great part,’ as Stanley: nor do his testimonies from Thucyd. i. 23; vii. 30, bear out this meaning. It might, of course, lie beneath the surface, but is not given by μέρος τι ) I cannot help believing.”