 20. ] The same subject resumed from the συνερχ . of 1 Corinthians 11:18 ; see notes on πρῶτον .  When then ye come together (  are assembling , pres. and perhaps here, where he deals with particulars, to be pressed, as their  intention in thus assembling is blamed)  to one place (reff. Acts)  it is not to eat (  with any idea of eating [or,  there is no eating ]. But Meyer, Bengel, and many others, render οὐκ ἔστιν here, ‘  non licet ,’ as in οὐκ ἔστιν εἰπεῖν and the like: De Wette, after Estius, al., as E. V., ‘  this is not ,’ ‘cannot be called,’ ‘  id quod agitis, non est .’ But the greediness which is blamed, seems to refer οὐκ ἔστιν to the συνέρχεσθαι , and φαγεῖν to the motive = ἵνα φαγῆτε )  the Supper of the Lord (emphasis on κυριακόν , as opposed to ἴδιον below).
	 κυρ  .   δεῖπν .] ‘  the Supper instituted by the Lord .’ This was an inseparable adjunct, in the apostolic times, to their agapæ or feasts of love. Chrys. on 1 Corinthians 11:17 , and Tertull. Apol. § 39, vol. i. pp. 474 ff., give an ample description of these feasts, which were of the nature of ἔρανοι , or mutual contributions, where each who was able brought his own portion, and the rich, additional portions for the poor. See Xen. Mem. iii. 14, in which the circumstances bear a remarkable similarity to those in the Corinthian church. Not  before this feast, as Chrys. ( μετὰ τὴν τῶν μυστηρίων κοινωνίαν ἐπὶ κοινὴν πάντες ᾔεσαν εὐωχίαν , p. 240), al., but  during and  after it, as shewn by the institution, by the custom at the Passover, by the context here, and by the remnants of the ancient custom and its abuse until forbidden by the council of Carthage, the ancient Christians partook of the Supper of the Lord. The best account of this matter is to be found in the note in Pool’s Synopsis on Matthew 26:26 . It was necessary for the celebration of the Lord’s Supper that all should eat of the same bread and drink of the same cup; and in all probability, that a prayer should be offered, and words of consecration said, by the appointed ministers. Hence cessation of the feast itself, and solemn order and silence, would be necessitated even by the outward requirements of the ordinance. These could not be obtained, where each man was greedily devouring that which he had brought with him: where the extremes were seen, of one craving, and another being drunken. This being their practice, there could be [no possibility, and at the same time]  no intention of celebrating the  Lord’s Supper, no [provision for it, nor] discernment of the solemnity of it. On the whole subject, see Stanley’s note.