In Crete. Crete is one of the largest islands in the Mediterranean. By the mythological writers it was called Aeria, Doliche, Idaea, Telchinia. According to tradition, Minos first gave laws to the Cretans, conquered the Aegean pirates, and established a navy. After the Trojan war the principal cities of the island formed themselves into several republics, mostly independent. The chief cities were Cnossus, Cydonia, Gortyna, and Lyctus. Crete was annexed to the Romans Empire B. C. 67. About Paul 's visiting the island we have no information whatever beyond the hints in this Epistle. There is no absolute proof that Paul was ever there before the voyage to Rome. Although on that voyage some time appears to have been spent at Crete, there is no notice of Paul having received any greeting from the members of the Christian churches there. According to this Epistle, Paul and Titus had worked there together. Paul went away, and left Titus to organize the churches founded by himself. He sent this letter by Zenas and Apollos (iii. 13), and announced in it the coming of Artemas or of Tychicus. On their arrival Titus was to join Paul at Nicopolis, where Paul was proposing to winter. Shouldst set in order [επιδιορθωση] . N. T. o. Lit. to set straight besides or farther; that is, should arrange what remained to be set in order after Paul 's departure. Used by medical writers of setting broken limbs or straightening crooked ones. Diorqwsiv reformation, Hebrews 9:10 : diorqwma correction, Acts 24:3. Ordain elders [καταστησης πρεσβυτερους] . Kaqistanai appoint or constitute. In Paul only Romans 5:19. For the sense here comp. Matthew 24:45, Matthew 24:47; Luke 12:14; Acts 6:3. The meaning of the injunction is, that Titus should appoint, out of the number of elderly men of approved Christian reputation, certain ones to be overseers [επισκοποι] of the churches in the several cities. The eldership was not a distinct church office. See on 1 Timothy 5:1. I had appointed [διεταξαμην] . Better, I gave thee charge. Mostly in Luke and Acts.