Acts 21:4.  And finding disciples. Literally, ‘and having found out the disciples.’ There were disciples who lived at Tyre, these were searched out by Paul and his companions. There was a little Christian church in this city. See chap. Acts 11:19, where we read how those who were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen, travelled as far as Phœnice (Phœnicia), of which Tyre was the capital. Professor Plumptre suggests that this church had been planted probably by the labours of Philip as the Evangelist of Cæsarea. St. Paul himself had most likely visited Tyre when he ‘passed through Phœnicia’ on his journey to the Council of Jerusalem (Acts 15:3)
	 We tarried there seven days.  These  ,seven days’ may have been the time exactly occupied in the lading and unlading of the ship in which Paul was one of the passengers. But this peculiar period of time mentioned at  Troas  (Acts 20:6), and again at  Puteoli  (Acts 28:14), seems to tell us that St. Paul arranged to stay at each of these points where there was a Christian church  Troas, Puteoli,  and  Tyre for the purpose of attending one solemn meeting of the brethren on the Lord’s day, and partaking once at least with them all of the Lord’s Supper.
	 Who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem. Chrysostom remarks here that they who at Tyre thus urged Paul, knew by the inspiration of the Spirit that certain afflictions awaited their beloved teacher at Jerusalem, but that their  exhortations  to him not to go up to the city were certainly not inspired by the Spirit (see Acts 21:23-24 of the preceding chapter (20), where the apostle refers to similar warnings of the Holy Ghost having come to him in every city). This, in fact, was only a repetition of what had happened before on several occasions. The Spirit had revealed to certain of the Church that grave dangers awaited St. Paul on his arrival at Jerusalem. These revelations were probably made to show the elders and teachers of the Church, through the example of Paul, what was the duty of a true elder and teacher in the face of the sorest peril. Paul listened to the warning words, we know, but convinced that the work which his Master wished him to do called him to Jerusalem, set his face steadily towards the city, regardless of all danger and suffering. His example has not been lost on the Christian Church.
	