Romans 8:15.  For ye did not receive.  The fact that they are ‘sons’ is now proven from their Christian experience at conversion.
	 The spirit of bondage,  etc. The latter part of the verse most naturally refers to the Holy Spirit, but many find a difficulty in this clause, if such a reference be accepted. But the difficulty is only apparent, as the following paraphrase shows: ‘The Spirit ye received was  not  a   spirit of bondage, but a Spirit of adoption.’ The Apostle does not suggest that the Holy Spirit could be a spirit of bondage, but emphatically denies this. This view is confirmed by the difficulties which attend the other explanations. To interpret: a slavish spirit, a   filial spirit, is not only weak, but contrary to the New Testament use of the word ‘spirit.’ To refer it to the subjective spirit of the renewed man disturbs the antithesis.
	 Again to fear.  ‘In order again to fear  , ’ ‘Again  , ’ as in the native condition, when fear was the motive of religious life. This applies to Gentile, as well as Jewish, Christians. All unchristian religiousness is in principle legalism, which is a   bondage; and bondage produces fear.
	 But ye received the Spirit of adoption.  The repetition is for solemn emphasis. They received the Holy Spirit; this Spirit was not that of bondage, to make them fear, but of adoption, leading to the joyful cry ‘Abba, Father.’ They were sons of God, not by birth, but by reason of grace numbering them among His children; the particular reference being to the method by which they became sons, rather than to their sonship.
	 Wherein,  not strictly, ‘whereby,’ but in the fellowship of the Spirit of adoption,  we cry, Abba, Father.  ‘Abba’ is the Syrian name for ‘Father  , ’ to which Paul adds the equivalent Greek term. ‘It seems best to regard this repetition as taken from a   liturgical formula, which may have originated among the Hellenistic Jews, who retained the consecrated word “Abba,” or among the Jews of Palestine, after they became acquainted with the Greek language. The latter theory best explains the expression as used Mark 14:36.’ Riddle, in Lange,  Galatians  (chap. Romans 4:6, a   parallel case). Some add the notion of affectionate address in ‘Abba’; others find a hint of the union of Jews and Gentiles in Christ
	