Romans 8:19.  For the patient expectation.  The idea is not of anxiety, but of a constant and persistent awaiting; the word translated ‘patient expectation’ being derived from one which means ‘to expect with uplifted head.’ This verse confirms the thought of Romans 8:18, by indicating the greatness of the future glory which the creation awaits, probably its certainty also.
	 Of the  creation.  The main question respects the exact reference of the term, which must be the same throughout the passage. (The E. V. makes an unnecessary variation by using both ‘creature’ and ‘creation’ to translate the same Greek word.) Undoubtedly the Apostle means the things created, not the act of creation, but how much is included?
	EXPLANATIONS. 1. The  entire universe  without any limitation. But this does away with the contrast to ‘sons of God  , ’ and involves incorrect inferences.
	2.  Inanimate creation.  This avoids some difficulties, but, by shutting out all intelligent creatures deprives the passage of its most appropriate application.
	3.  Humanity  alone, either as a whole, or with limitations. This seems too restricted. Further, if Christians are included, the contrast with ‘sons of God’ is done away; but if non Christian humanity alone is meant, it is singular that Paul should choose the word ‘creation’ rather than the common term ‘world.’
	4. All creation  except  humanity. This limitation has much in its favor, (  a.)   Believers are evidently excluded; (  b.)   mankind as a whole do not have this expectation; (  c.) man is not unwillingly subject to vanity (Romans 8:20); (  d.)  Romans 8:21 points to the fulfilment of the expectation (but see below, where it is taken as giving the purport of the hope). On the other hand, man is the head of creation, and it seems unnatural to exclude him; man is, on his physical side, part of the material creation; if that be referred to, it seems arbitrary to exclude him from it.
	5. ‘The material world surrounding man’ (Tholuck). But this is open to the same objections as (2.) and (4.).
	6.  The whole creation, rational as well as irrational, not yet redeemed, but needing and capable of redemption,  here opposed to the new creation in Christ and in the regenerate. The children of God appear, on the one side, as the first-fruits of the new creation, and the remaining creatures, on the other, as consciously or unconsciously longing after the same redemption and renewal. This explanation seems to be the most correct one. It most satisfactorily accounts for the expressions:  expectation, waiting, groaning,  not willingly (Romans 8:20), and  the whole creation  (Romans 8:22). The whole creation, then, looks forward to redemption; all natural birth, to the new birth. As all that is created proceeded from God, so it all, consciously or unconsciously, strives after Him as its final end. What shows itself in nature as a dim impulse, in the natural man, among the heathen, and yet more among the Jews, under the influence of the law, comes to distinct consciousness and manifests itself in that loud cry after deliverance (chap. Romans 7:24), which Christ alone can satisfy; and then voices itself in happy gratitude for the actual redemption (Schaff in Lange,  Romans)  .  This view differs from (4) in including man in his fallen condition, as the head of the longing creation under the bondage of corruption. His material body shares in this corruption, and his unregenerate soul responds with an indefinite longing, yet too often uses its power over the body to stifle the inarticulate desire of the physical nature. In any case the degradation of sin is fearfully manifest; the natural man is less alive to the ‘hope’ in which creation has been subjected (Romans 8:20) than nature itself.
	 Is waiting,  continues to wait.
	 The revelation of the sons of God.  The final revelation of Christ’s glory is here spoken of as that ‘of the sons of God.’ Thus the Apostle expresses his deep sense of the fellowship of believers with Christ. This revelation will snow them as the sons of God, and in the glory then to be revealed (Romans 8:18) the creation will share.
	