Romans 8:11.  But if,  etc. The body will indeed die, but despite this grace will triumph even over physical death; even the body that must die will ultimately fully share in redemption, at the resurrection, through the indwelling Holy Spirit
	 Him that raised up Jesus from the dead,  etc. This expression has a demonstrative force here: the fact that the indwelling Spirit is the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead is a pledge that the spiritual quickening will be followed by the physical quickening.
	 Will quicken even your mortal bodies.  This is most naturally referred to the final resurrection of the body; for, although ‘quicken’ might of itself include something already begun, the word ‘even’ (or, ‘also’) seems to limit it to the bodily resurrection. This truth of revelation is so important, and so distinctive, that it deserves the emphasis thus given to it. ‘Even’ the body which here succumbs to the effects of sin, shall be quickened; the victory of redemption will be complete when this occurs.
	 Through,  or, ‘on account of  , ’  his Spirit that dwell-eth in you.  It is difficult to decide between the two readings. The Sinaitic manuscript supports ‘through,’ and has turned the current of opinion in favor of that reading. As early as the latter part of the fourth century the variation was introduced into a controversy respecting the Divinity of the Holy Spirit ‘Through’ would point to the fact that the Holy Spirit which is now working moral renovation in us will be the Agent in completing the triumph in the resurrection of the body. ‘Because of’ may include this thought, but would refer mainly to the indwelling Spirit as the pledge of the resurrection. If this Spirit now dwells in the body of the believer, that body will not be left unredeemed. In either case, the reference seems to be to the final resurrection, rather than to any present moral quickening. This passage moreover indicates that the ‘spiritual body’ spoken of in 1 Corinthians 15:44, is a body prepared for the human spirit entirely renovated by the Holy Spirit
	