Romans 8:26.  Likewise the Spirit also. This is the second ground of encouragement. ‘Likewise’ introduces that which takes place at the same time, and in correspondence with what precedes: to our patient human waiting is added the help of the Divine Spirit. It is now generally conceded that the personal Holy Spirit is referred to.
	 Helpeth our weakness. The best manuscripts give the noun in the singular number: ‘weakness’ is a better translation than ‘infirmity.’ The verb means ‘to lay hold of in connection with’; the Spirit helps our weakness, in bearing the burden spoken of in Romans 8:23, in awaiting final redemption. The reference is not to weakness in prayer alone, nor is our weakness the burden which the Spirit helps us bear.
	 For introduces an illustration of our weakness, showing how the Spirit helps us.
	 We know not, etc. This refers to our continued state of ignorance, not to special seasons.
	 What we should, etc. This includes also ignorance of ‘how’ to pray ‘as we ought:’ ‘it is not absolutely and altogether unknown to us what we ought to ask, but only what is necessary to ask according to the given circumstances’ (Meyer).
	 But the Spirit itself. This phrase brings into prominence the Holy Spirit as the Intercessor, who knows ‘what we should pray for.’
	 Intercedeth for us. The phrase answering to ‘for us’ is omitted, according to the best authorities, but the verb of itself implies this.
	 With groanings which cannot be uttered. The adjective here used may mean ( 1 .) unutterable; ( 2 .) unuttered; ( 3 .) not speaking; the first sense is much to be preferred. Care should be taken not to weaken the expressions to the unutterable longings of the human spirit, nor on the other hand to refer it to the Holy Spirit independently of us. The Holy Spirit is here spoken of in His saving work in us: while dwelling in us He makes intercession thus,’ Himself pleads in our prayers, raising us to higher and holier desires than we can express in words, which can only find utterance in sighings and aspirations’ (Alford).