38. Pilate saith unto him, What is
	truth?—that is, "Thou stirrest the question of questions,
	which the thoughtful of every age have asked, but never man yet
	answered." 
	And when he had said this—as
	if, by putting such a question, he was getting into interminable and
	unseasonable inquiries, when this business demanded rather prompt
	action. 
	he went out again unto the
	Jews—thus missing a noble opportunity for himself, and giving
	utterance to that consciousness of the want of all intellectual and
	moral certainty, which was the feeling of every thoughtful mind at
	that time. "The only certainty," says the elder PLINY,
	"is that nothing is certain, nor more miserable than man, nor
	more proud. The fearful laxity of morals at that time must doubtless
	be traced in a great degree to this skepticism. The revelation of the
	eternal truth alone was able to breathe new life into ruined human
	nature, and that in the apprehension of complete redemption"
	[OLSHAUSEN]. 
	and saith unto them—in
	the hearing of our Lord, who had been brought forth. 
	I find in him no fault—no
	crime. This so exasperated "the chief priests and elders"
	that, afraid of losing their prey, they poured forth a volley of
	charges against Him, as appears from Luke 23:4;
	Luke 23:5: on Pilate's affirming
	His innocence, "they were the more fierce, saying, He
	stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from
	Galilee to this place." They see no hope of getting Pilate's
	sanction to His death unless they can fasten upon Him a charge of
	conspiracy against the government; and as Galilee was noted
	for its turbulence (Luke 13:1;
	Acts 5:37), and our Lord's
	ministry lay chiefly there, they artfully introduce it to give color
	to their charge. "And the chief priests accused Him of many
	things, but He answered nothing (Acts 5:37- :). Then said Pilate unto Him, Hearest Thou not how many
	things they witness against Thee? And He answered him to never a
	word, insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly" (Matthew 27:13;
	Matthew 27:14). See on Matthew 27:14- :. In his perplexity, Pilate, hearing of Galilee, bethinks
	himself of the expedient of sending Him to Herod, in the hope of
	thereby further shaking off responsibility in the case. See Matthew 27:14- :, and see on Matthew 27:14- :.
	The return of the prisoner only deepened the perplexity of Pilate,
	who, "calling together the chief priests, rulers, and people,"
	tells them plainly that not one of their charges against "this
	man" had been made good, while even Herod, to whose jurisdiction
	he more naturally belonged, had done nothing to Him: He "will
	therefore chastise and release him" (Matthew 27:14- :).