3. Judas then—"He that
	was called Judas, one of the Twelve," says Luke ( :-), in language which brands him with peculiar infamy, as in
	the sacred circle while in no sense of it. 
	a band of men—"the
	detachment of the Roman cohort on duty at the festival for the
	purpose of maintaining order" [WEBSTER
	and WILKINSON]. 
	officers from the chief
	priests and Pharisees—captains of the temple and armed Levites.
	lanterns and torches—It
	was full moon, but in case He should have secreted Himself somewhere
	in the dark ravine, they bring the means of exploring its
	hiding-places—little knowing whom they had to do with. "Now he
	that betrayed Him had given them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall
	kiss, that same is He, hold Him fast" ( :-). The cold-bloodedness of this speech was only exceeded by
	the deed itself. "And Judas went before them [ :-], and forthwith he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, Master,
	and kissed Him" (Matthew 26:49;
	compare Exodus 4:27; Exodus 18:7;
	Luke 7:45). The impudence of this
	atrocious deed shows how thoroughly he had by this time mastered all
	his scruples. If the dialogue between our Lord and His captors was
	before this, as some interpreters think it was, the kiss of
	Judas was purely gratuitous, and probably to make good his right to
	the money; our Lord having presented Himself unexpectedly before
	them, and rendered it unnecessary for any one to point Him out. But a
	comparison of the narratives seems to show that our Lord's "coming
	forth" to the band was subsequent to the interview of
	Judas. "And Jesus said unto him, Friend"—not the
	endearing term "friend" (in Luke 7:45- :), but "companion," a word used on occasions of
	remonstrance or rebuke (as in Matthew 20:13;
	Matthew 22:12) —"Wherefore art
	thou come?" (Matthew 26:50).
	"Betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss"—imprinting
	upon the foulest act the mark of tenderest affection? What wounded
	feeling does this express! Of this Jesus showed Himself on
	various occasions keenly susceptible—as all generous and beautiful
	natures do.