After our Lord’s prediction of His sufferings and hint of His glory (chap. Matthew 16:21-28), three chosen disciples receive a supernatural testimony and pledge of that glory. But the primary purpose probably was to give to our Lord, at this crisis, consolation from His Father, who by an attesting voice ushered in the sufferings as He had done the successes. The scene of the transfiguration according to tradition was Mount Tabor, in Galilee; but it was more probably  Hermon, which was near Cesarea Philippi, an uninhabited and lofty mountain, and better fitted to be the scene of a secret revelation. Mount Panium and a mountain near the lake, have also been suggested, but with less reason.
	The  Transfiguration, a Sabbath revelation (‘after six days’); an earnest of the resurrection, a prophecy of Sabbath rest and privilege. Three witnesses, three accounts; the same human company in Gethsemane, but a different heavenly visitant. Our Lord’s inherent glory burst forth, an anticipation and prophecy of His future glory. Moses and Elijah: the one had represented Christ’s sufferings in type, the other in prophecy: the Old and New Testaments agree, and centre in the cross; Christ is revealed as Lord of the invisible world, as well as of the future kingdom of glory. Peter’s proposal; an expression of fear and perplexity, and yet of gratitude for privilege; like privilege often produces like desire to rest before the time. The dark cloud on Mount Sinai; the bright cloud on the Mount of Transfiguration. The attesting voice, now a command to hear Him, as He went to death. Jesus only; the new covenant established on its own evidence, the Master’s authority proclaimed as sufficient. When Christ should come forth from the grave, the truth about Him could come out from secrecy (Matthew 17:9). Elijah had appeared; the true fulfilment of prophecy was in the coming of John the Baptist; what was done to him a prelude of what the rulers of the Jews would do to Christ. Those who reject the preacher of repentance will soon crucify the preacher of salvation.
	