 25 27. ] CONCLUDING DOXOLOGY. The genuineness of this doxology, and its position in the Epistle have been much questioned. The external evidence will be found in the var. readings; from which it is plain, that  its genuineness as a part of the Epistle is  placed beyond all reasonable doubt . Nor does the variety of position militate here, as in some cases, against this conclusion. For the transference of it to the end of ch. 14 may be explained, partly from the supposed reference of στηρίξαι to the question treated in ch. 14 (so Chrys., πάλιν γὰρ ἐκείνων ἔχεται τῶν ἀσθενῶν , κ . πρὸς αὐτοὺς τρέπει τὸν λόγον ), partly from the supposed inappropriateness of it here after the benediction of Romans 16:24 , in consequence of which that verse is omitted by MSS. which have the doxology here, partly from the unusual character of the position and diction of the doxology itself.
	This latter has been used as an internal argument against the genuineness of the portion. Paul never elsewhere ends with such a doxology. His doxologies, when he does use such, are simple, and perspicuous in construction, whereas this is involved, and rhetorical. This objection however is completely answered by the supposition (Fritz.) that the doxology was the effusion of the fervent mind of the Apostle on taking a general survey of the Epistle. We find in its diction striking similarities to that of the pastoral Epistles: a phænomenon occurring in several places where Paul writes in a fervid and impassioned manner, also where he writes  with his own hand ; the inferences from which I have treated in the Prolegg. to those Epistles (vol. iii. Prolegg. ch. vii. § i. 30 33). That the doxology is made up of unusual expressions taken from Paul’s other writings, that it is difficult and involved, are facts, which if rightly argued from, would substantiate,  not its interpolation, but its genuineness : seeing that an interpolator would have taken care to conform it to the character of the Epistle in which it stands, and to have left in it no irregularity which would bring it into question. The construction is exceedingly difficult. Viewed superficially, it presents only another instance added to many in which the Apostle begins a sentence with one construction, proceeds onward through various dependent clauses till he loses sight of the original form, and ends with a construction presupposing another kind of beginning. And such no doubt it is: but it is not easy to say what he had in his mind when commencing the sentence. Certainly, ᾧ ἡ δόξα εἰς τ . αἰῶνας forbids us from supposing that δόξα was intended to follow the datives, for thus this latter clause would be merely a repetition. We might imagine that he had ended the sentence as if it had begun ὁ δὲ δυνάμενος , κ . τ . λ . and expressed a wish that He who was able to confirm them,  might confirm them: but this is prevented by its being evident, from the μόνῳ σοφῷ θεῷ , that the datives are still in his mind. This latter fact will guide us to the solution. The dative form is still in his mind, but not the reference in which he had used it. Hence, when the sentence would naturally have concluded (as it actually does in B: see digest) μόνῳ σοφῷ θεῷ , διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , ἡ δόξα εἰς τ . αἰῶνας , a break is made, as if the sense were complete at χριστοῦ , and the relative ᾧ refers back to the subject of the sentence preceding, thus imagined complete, viz. to ὁ δυνάμενος μόνος σοφὸς θεός . The analogy of the similar passage Act 20:32 would tempt us to supply with the datives παρατίθεμαι ὑμᾶς , or the like, as suggested by Olsh.; but as De W. remarks, the form of a doxology is too evident to allow of this. After all, perhaps, the datives may be understood as conveying a  general ascription of praise for the mercies of Redemption detailed in the Epistle , and then ᾧ ἡ δ . as superadded, q. d.,  To Him who is able &c.… be all the praise: to whom be glory for ever .