 5 .]  be ye also as living (see above)  stones built up (it is disputed whether  οἰκοδομεῖσθε is indicative or imperative. Much is to be said both ways. Wiesinger, who is the ablest recent advocate for the indicative, maintains that the passage is epexegetical of the preceding ἵνα ἐν αὐτῷ αὐξηθῆτε , shewing how love to the word, seeking in the word the Lord Himself and His goodness, of itself leads to the completion set forth in 1 Peter 2:5 . But I cannot help feeling that this view of epexegesis of ἵνα ἐν αὐτ . αὐξ . is much weakened by the fact that πρὸς ὅν must be referred to κύριος , which is already separated from ἵνα κ . τ . λ . by εἴπερ ἐγεύσασθε κ . τ . λ . And other weightier reasons are behind. On the indicative view, the pres. part. προσερχόμενοι could hardly have been used, but it would surely have been προσελθόντες . This is felt by Luther, who renders it  zu welchem ihr gekommen send . Again, the connexion with the foregoing by a participle, proceeding on to an imperative, exactly corresponds to the former hortatory sentences, ch. 1 Peter 1:13-14 ; 1 Peter 1:22 , and 1 Peter 2:1 . Finally, the long procession of mere predications, on this view, would be tame and almost tautological, in comparison with the powerful gathering up with the  οὐν , 1 Peter 2:7 , of the high and holy state on which the preceding exhortation depends, as contrasted with that of the unbelieving. I therefore decide for the imperative, against Syr. (Etheridge: “you also as living stones are builded”), Estius, Grot, Beng., al., and Wiesinger, and with Œc., Syr. (as commonly quoted), Beza, Aret., Benson, Steiger, De Wette, Huther)  a spiritual house (  οἶκος = ναός , 1 Corinthians 3:16 ; Ephesians 2:21 ; as before, the stones are called  living , and the house  spiritual , not merely to signify that they are not dead stones, and the house not a material one, but on account of the life which Christians derive from Christ, the living Stone, and of the service which they render in virtue of being a body dwelt in by the Holy Spirit)  for (see var. readd.)  an holy priesthood (abstract, office of priesthood, including in itself the individual priests: see ref. Exod. Being God’s spiritual temple, they form an holy priesthood to Him, approaching and serving before Him in virtue of that Living and Holy One, whose mystic Body they are, and in whom the Father is well pleased: And they need no other by whom to approach God: being all priests, they require not, nor admit of, any distinct body of men among themselves specially called priests, nearer to God than themselves. No where is this more clearly declared by inference, than here)  to offer up (  ἀναφέρειν , not occurring in St. Paul, nor in the classics, but (reff.) in Heb. and St. James, is the regular LXX word for offering up sacrifice. The aor. is here used, because no habitual offering, as in rite or festival, is meant, but the one, once-for-all, devotion of the body, as in Romans 12:1 , to God as His. On the infin. of the purpose, see Winer, § 44. 1)  spiritual sacrifices (cf. especially Hebrews 13:15-16 . Spiritual, because as the temple, as the priests, as the God, so the offering. It is this, rather than any distinction from the O. T. sacrifices, that is pointed at in  πνευματικάς  ) acceptable (reff.)  to God through Jesus Christ (these last words may be joined, either, 1. with εὐπροσδέκτους , or, 2. with ἀνενέγκαι . This latter has for it the analogy of Hebrews 13:15 , δι ʼ αὐτοῦ οὖν ἀναφέρωμεν κ . τ . λ ., and is preferred by Grot., Aret., De Wette, Huther, Wiesinger: and I think reasonably. The introduction of διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ as a mere appendage of εὐπροσδέκτους would not satisfy the weighty character of the words, nay would seem to put them in the wrong place, seeing that not merely the acceptability, but the very existence, and possibility of offering, of those sacrifices depends on the mediation of the great High Priest).