 16 .] The connexion is somewhat doubtful. Chrys. (in Cramer’s Catena), Œc., Bengel, Gerh., De Wette, join ὡς ἐλεύθεροι with ὑποτάγητε above, 1 Peter 2:13 ; Bed [8] , Luther, Calv., Hammond, Wiesinger, with ἀγαθοποιοῦντας , 1 Peter 2:15 ; Steiger, Huther, with the following, 1 Peter 2:17 . This latter seems quite untenable, as carrying no application on from 1Pe 2:16 to 1 Peter 2:17 . No one would think of pleading his freedom as an excuse for not honouring all, or for not loving the brethren, or for not fearing God: or indeed for not, in some sense,  honouring the King. But in a matter of subjection, such ἐλευθερία might be and often is made a cloak for disobedience. Connecting then ὡς ἐλεύθ . with what has preceded, which of the other connexions are we to take? That with ὑποτάγητε seems too distant: it may certainly be said that 1Pe 2:17 brings in again the general duty in its most simple form: but even thus we can hardly account for the parenthetical 1 Peter 2:15 , so unparenthetical in its aspect and construction. Whereas if we join ὡς ἐλεύθ . to 1 Peter 2:15 , we obtain, as Wiesinger well argues, an epexegesis which that verse seems to need, for it is almost a truism that we are to accomplish the φιμοῦν by ἀγαθοποιεῖν , unless some explanation be given of the particular circumstances under which this is to take place. I regard then 1Pe 2:16 as an epexegesis of 1 Peter 2:15 , not carrying on the construction with an accus. but with a nom. as already in 1 Peter 2:12 , and indeed even more naturally here, because not the act consequent on ἀγαθοποιεῖν , as there on ἀπέχεσθαι , is specified, but the antecedent state and Christian mode of ἀγαθοποιεῖν .  As free (children of God, His family and people, His kingly priesthood: not merely free from the law, or free from sin, or free from earthly subjection, but generally and abstractedly free Christ’s freed men),  and not as (  ὡς belongs to ἔχοντες , not to ἐπικάλυμμα )  having (cf. above, 1Pe 2:12 )  your freedom (  for )  a veil (reff.)  of your evil intent (the  τῆς , hypothetical: of the evil intent which using your freedom as a veil would necessarily presuppose),  but as God’s (emphatic)  servants (and therefore bound to submit yourselves to that which God ordains).
	 [8] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.