 7 .]  To you (dat. commodi)  then (inference from the ὁ πιστεύων ἐπ ʼ αὐτῷ κ . τ . λ .)  is the honour (the  τιμή ) belonging to the Stone itself ( ἔντιμον above), with which you are united in the building: the honour implied in the οὐ μὴ καταισχυνθῇ said of those who believe on Him. There can be, I think, no doubt that these two commonly divergent accounts given of the word τιμή ought to be combined in one. That the result of the οὐ μὴ καταισχυνθῇ is what the Apostle means to state, is evident by the οὖν and τοῖς πιστεύουσιν : that the form in which this is stated is ὑμῖν ἡ τιμή , is evidently owing to the occurrence of ἔντιμον above. It is as plainly altogether beside the purpose, with Erasm., Luth., Calv., Aret., Bengel, al., to understand ‘Christ,’ or ‘the Stone,’ as the subject, and render as E. V., “He is precious,” making ἡ τιμή predicate instead of subject)  who believe: but to the disobedient (not, the  unbelieving : see Hebrews 3:18 , note. Unbelief is the  root of ἀπείθεια : but it is the manner of Scripture, to follow it out into disobedience, its invariable effect, when spoken of in contrast to πίστις . The dat. is not one of reference, but incommodi. Then what follows is in the form of another quotation, or rather combination of quotations: the first from Psa 118:22 ),  the stone which the builders rejected, this has become for a (has been made into a)  head corner-stone (this is true with regard to believers also: but to them it is grace and glory, to these it is terror and destruction),  and a stone of stumbling and rock of offence (second quotation from Isaiah 8:14 . Here again, St. Paul in Rom 9:33 has taken the same words, differing from the LXX, but agreeing with the Hebrew. This stumbling is not mere mental offence, which, e. g. they take at the preaching of the Cross; but the “stumbling upon the dark mountains” of Jeremiah 13:16 , see Proverbs 4:19 ; Daniel 11:19 ; the eternal disgrace and ruin which forms the contrast to τιμή above. Cf. on πέτρα σκανδάλου Matthew 16:23 , note [the very expression carries a reminiscence of Peter’s own days of unbelief, when he was an offence, he, Πέτρος , to his Lord]),