 24 .]  who Himself (now the ἀγαθοποιῶν reaches its height. He was not only negatively innocent, 1 Peter 2:22 , but suffered in the pursuance of the noblest purpose of love, and that love  towards us : by which fact His example is further brought home and endeared to us)  bore our sins (but in the pregnant sense of “bore to sacrifice,” “carried and offered up:” see notes on James 2:21 , Ἀβραὰμ .… ἀνενέγκας Ἰσαὰκ … ἐπὶ τὸ θυσιαστήριον : see Leviticus 14:20 ; Hebrews 7:27 . It is a word belonging to  sacrifice , and not to be dissociated from it. In Isaiah 53:12 , αὐτὸς ἁμαρτίας πολλῶν ἀνένεγκεν , (Hebrews 9:28 ,) we have the sense of bearing on Himself more prominent: and by that passage our rendering here must be regulated: always remembering that the other sense lies behind)  in His (  own ) (this is almost required by the repetition of  αὐτοῦ after αὐτός , when it might have been well omitted, if no emphasis had been intended)  body on the tree (constr. prægn., “took them to the tree and offered them up on it;” as the above sense of ἀνήνεγκεν necessitates. Cf. Vitringa in Huther: “Vix uno verbo ἔμφασις vocis ἀναφέρειν exprimi potest. Nota  ferre et  offerre . Primo dicere voluit Petrus, Christum portasse peccata nostra, in quantum illa ipsi erant imposita. Secundo, ita tulisse peccata nostra, ut ea secum obtulerit in altari. Respicit ad animantes, quibus peccata primo imponebantur, quique deinceps peccatis onusti offerebantur. Sed in quam aram  ξύλον ait Petrus, lignum, h. e., crucem”);  tha (purpose of that great and crowning suffering of the Lord)  having died (not, as some Commentators, “having past away,” being removed to a distance (“longefacti a peccatis,” Grot.), but literally, “having died:” so Herod. ii. 85, 136, μηδ ʼ ἄλλον μηδένα τῶν ἑαυτοῦ ἀπογενόμενον θάψαι : 1 Peter 2:4 , vi. 58, and other examples in Raphel and Wetstein)  to our sins (reff.),  we should live to righteousness (the same contrast is found, but with another image, of being freed from, and become servants to, in Romans 6:18 . In Romans 6:11 , where the same figure of death and life is used, it is νεκροὺς τῇ ἁμαρτίᾳ , ζῶντας δὲ τῷ θεῷ ),  by whose stripe ye were healed (  μώλωψ , the weal left by a stripe. From Isaiah 53:5 , τῷ μώλωπι αὐτοῦ ἡμεῖς ἰάθημεν . “Paradoxon apostolicum: vibice sanati estis. Est autem μώλωψ , vibex, frequens in corpore servili, Sir 23:10 .” Bengel).