 12 .]  Positive result of this abstinence , and its important fruit:  having (we have the same disjunction of the construction in Ephesians 4:1-2 , παρακαλῶ … ὑμᾶς … ἀνεχάμενοι . It serves to give vividness to the description, taking the participle out from under the παρακαλῶ , and depicting, as it were, the condition recommended, as actually existing. It is so eminently, though not under exactly the same circumstances as to construction, in the beautiful procession of participles and adjectives in Rom 12:9-19 )  your behaviour among the Gentiles comely (as over against the ματαία ἀναστροφή of the Gentiles, ch. 1 Peter 1:18 . Cf. ch. 1Pe 3:16 ),  that (aim of the preceding)  in the matter in which (so ἐν ᾧ in reff.: not, ‘  while ,’ for that would not apply to δοξάσωσιν below: both could not be going on  together : nor “  whereas ,” E. V., “pro eo quod,” Beza, for which sense of ἐν ᾧ there is no precedent. The sense is, ‘that that conduct, which was to them an occasion of speaking against you as evil-doers, may by your good works become to them an occasion of glorifying God.’ And ‘  that, in which ,’ will be in fact your whole Christian life)  they speak against you at evildoers (often the Christians would be compelled to diverge from heathen customs and even to break human laws, and thus would incur the imputation of malefactors),  they may, on the ground of your good works, being spectators of them (contrast to the ignorance assumed in the ἀγνωσία τῶν ἀφρόνων ἀνθρώπων below, 1 Peter 2:15 . On the word, see reff.: and cf. ἐπόπτης , an eye-witness, 2Pe 1:16 ),  glorify God in (the) day of visitation (i. e., the day when God visits, ἐπισκέπτεται , Luke 1:68 ; Luke 1:78 ; Acts 15:14 , mankind with His offers of mercy and grace: cf. also ref. Luke, where our Lord says of Jerusalem, οὐκ ἔγνως τὸν καιρὸν τῆς ἐπισκοπῆς σου . The word has been variously understood: the Fathers generally (cf. Suicer in voc.), Lyra, Erasm, Beza, De Wette, al. explain it as above: Œc, Wolf., Bengel, al. think that the day of  inquisition before earthly magistrates is meant ( ἡμέραν δὲ ἐπισκοπῆς τὴν κατὰ κόσμον ἐξέτασιν καλεῖ · ἐξετάσεως γὰρ ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν τοῦ βίου ἡμῶν γενομένης , εἶτα πρὸς τὸ ἐναντίον τῆς ὑπολήψεως τῶν πραγμάτων εὑρισκομένων αὐτοί τε πρὸς οἷς αἰσχύνονται ἐπανορθοῦνται , καὶ ὁ θεὸς δοξάζεται . Œc.). Bed [7] , al. understand it of the day of judgment. But the former sense is far preferable on account of usage, and for its fitness in the context).
	 [7] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.