 9 .]  But ye (emphatic)  are a chosen generation (not, as De Wette, “  the chosen generation;” though this is implied, it is not in the words, nor does it correspond with the indefinite predicates which follow. On the expression, cf. ref. Isa., τὸ γένος μου τὸ ἐκλεκτόν .  γένος betokens a common origin and unity of related life: but perhaps Wiesinger goes too far in pressing the idea here),  a kingly priesthood (  ἱεράτευμα as above, see note. The expression is from the LXX of Exodus 19:6 . Cf. Revelation 1:6 , ἐποίησεν ἡμᾶς βασιλείαν ἱερεῖς τῷ θεῷ , and 1 Peter 5:10 . In the N. T. church these two elements, the kingship and the priesthood, are united in every individual believer, as in our great Head, Jesus Christ, who alone unites them in the O. T. church; the two coexisting, but never, except in the case of Melchisedek His foretype, united in the same Person),  an holy nation (also from Exodus 19:6 , LXX; God’s declaration at Sinai respecting Israel),  a people for acquisition (i. e. peculiarly God’s own, as interpreted by what follows in the place of Isaiah referred to, as well as here. There it stands, λαόν μου ὃν περιεποιησάμην τὰς ἀρετάς μου διηγεῖσθαι . See, on the word, ref. 1 Thess. note. In the place of Exodus which was before quoted, ch. Exodus 19:5 , we read ἔσεσθέ μοι λαὸς περιούσιος ἀπὸ πάντων τῶν ἐθνῶν . See also Deuteronomy 7:6 . Œc. says, περιποίησιν ἡμᾶς καλεῖ διὰ τὸ περιποιήσασθαι ἡμᾶς τὸν θεόν , as in Acts 20:28 , τὴν ἐκκλησίαν τοῦ θεοῦ , ἣν περιεποιήσατο διὰ τοῦ αἵματος τοῦ ἰδίου ),  that ye may tell out ( ἐξαγγ . not = ἀναγγ . The prep. gives the sense of publishing  forth )  the virtues s (i. e. gracious dealings, excellent and glorious attributes: see Isa. above, and in reff. Philo repeatedly uses ἀρεταί in this sense; e. g. De Mut. Nom. § 34, vol. i. p. 606, πολλὴ δὲ ἄγνοια νομίζειν τὰς θεοῦ ἀρετὰς τὰς ἀῤῥεπεῖς καὶ παγιωτάτας χωρῆσαι ψυχὴν ἀνθρώπου δύνασθαι .… ἀκράτους μὲν γὰρ ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι τὰς τοῦ θεοῦ ἀρετάς : see other passages in Loesner)  of Him (God: the Father)  who called you out of darkness (“tenebræ ignorantiæ, errorum, peccatorum, miseriæ, adeoque totum diaboli regnum,” Gerh.)  to (not exactly “  into :”  εἰς with καλέσαντος gives more the aim of the call, than its local result: to, i. e. to attain unto and be partakers of: to walk in and by)  His wonderful light (this expression here can hardly mean the light of our Christian life only; but must import that light of God’s own Presence and Being, after which our walking in light is to be fashioned: the light to which St. John alludes, when he says, ἐὰν ἐν τῷ φωτὶ περιπατῶμεν ,  ὡς αὐτός ἐστιν ἐν τῷ φωτί . Had not this been intended, surely neither  εἰς nor  αὐτοῦ would have been used. “It is wonderful,” says De Wette, “just as to one coming out of long darkness the light of day would be wonderful.” The figure of the corner-stone has not quite passed away from the Apostle’s mind; in the end of the prophecy concerning which we read, Ps. 117:23 ( Mat 21:42 ), παρὰ κυρίου ἐγένετο αὕτη , καὶ ἔστιν  θαυμαστὴ ἐν ὀφθαλμοῖς ἡμῶν :