 6 .] The  δέ = ‘and not only so, but’.…  χάρις , see above, Romans 12:3 , on μέτρ . πίστ . These χαρίσματα are called, 1 Corinthians 12:7 , ἡ φανέρωσις τοῦ πνεύματος . “These χαρίσματα δάφορα are next specified. The two first accusatives are grammatically dependent on ἔχοντες : by degrees the Apostle loses sight of the construction, and continues with the concrete ὁ διδάσκων , which still he binds on to the foregoing by εἴτε , but at ὁ μεταδιδούς , omits this also, and, at Romans 12:9 , introduces the abstract ἡ ἀγάπη .” Thol.
	 εἴτε προφητείαν ] There is some dispute about the construction of these clauses. The ordinary rendering regards them as elliptical, and supplies before κατὰ and ἐν , χρησάσθω αὐτῇ or ὥστε εἶναι αὐτήν or the like. But Reiche, Meyer, De Wette, suppose  no ellipsis , joining κατὰ τὴν ἀναλ ., &c. to the foregoing substantives, as κατὰ τὴν χάριν to χαρίσματα . This construction must however be dropped at ἐν ἁπλότητι , which is manifestly to be rendered with a verb supplied: and (2) it reduces the four first mentioned gifts to a bare catalogue, and deprives the passage of its aim, which is to keep each member of the body in its true place and work without any member boasting against another. Tholuck quotes a passage of very similar construction from Epictet. Dissert. iii. 23. 5. He is speaking of reading and philosophizing from ostentation, and says that every thing which we do, must have its aim, its ἀναφορά ; λοιπόν , ἡ μὲν τίς ἐστι κοινὴ ἀναφορά , ἡ δ ʼ ἰδία . πρῶτον , ἵν ʼ ὡς ἄνθρωπος . ἐν τούτῳ τί περιέχεται ; … ἡ δ ʼ ἰδία πρὸς τὸ ἐπιτήδευμα ἑκάστου καὶ τὴν προαίρεσιν · ὁ κιθαρῳδός , ὡς κιθαρῳδός · ὁ τέκτων , ὡς τέκτων · ὁ φιλόσοφος , ὡς φιλόσοφος · ὁ ῥήτωρ , ὡς ῥήτωρ . See also the same construction in 1 Peter 4:10-11 .
	On προφητεία , the gift of the προφῆται , see note, Acts 11:27 .
	 κατ. τ. ἀναλ. τ. πίστ .] (  let us prophesy )  according to the proportion (compare Justin Mart. Apol. i. 17, p. 54: “each will be punished πρὸς ἀναλογίαν ὧν ἔλαβε δυνάμεων παρὰ θεοῦ ”)  of faith . But  what faith?  Objective (‘fides  quæ creditur’), or  subjective (‘fides  quâ creditur’)?  the faith, or  our faith? The comparison of μέτρον πιστεως above, and the whole context, determine it to be the latter; the measure of  our faith: ‘quisque se intra sortis suæ metas contineat, et revelationis suæ modum teneat, ne unus sibi omnia scire videatur.’ To understand  ἀναλογία τ  .   π . objectively, as ‘the rule of faith,’ as many R.-Cath. expositors, and some Protestant, e.g. Calvin, ‘fidei nomine significat prima religionis axiomata,’ seems to do violence to the context, which aims at shewing that the measure of faith, itself the gift of God, is the receptive faculty for all spiritual gifts, which are therefore not to be boasted of, nor pushed beyond their provinces, but humbly exercised within their own limits.