 8 .] The  παρακαλῶν was not necessarily distinct from the προφητεύων , see 1 Corinthians 14:31 .
	 ὁ μεταδιδούς appears to be the  giver of the alms to the poor , either the deacon himself, or some distributor subordinate to the deacon. This however has been doubted, and not without reason: for a transition certainly seems to be made, by the omission of the εἴτε , from  public to  private gifts. We cannot find any ecclesiastical meaning for ἐλεῶν (though indeed Calvin, al., understand by it “viduas et alios ministros qui curandis ægrotis, secundum veterem Ecclesiæ morem, præficiebantur”), and the very fact of the three preceding being all limited to their respective official spheres, whereas these three are connected with qualitative descriptions, speaks strongly for their being  private acts , to be always performed  in the spirit described. Add to all, that, as Vitringa remarks,  δια διδόναι is more properly to  distribute ( Act 4:35 ),  μετα διδόναι to  impart of one’s own to another . I would therefore render it:  He that bestoweth.
	 ἐν ἁπλότητι ] ordinarily, ‘  with simplicity .’ But seeing that ἁπλότης , referred to alms-giving, bears another and an objective meaning, this hardly satisfies me, because σπουδή and ἱλαρότης designate not so much the inward frame of mind, as the outward character of the superintendence and the compassion: as might be expected, when gifts to be exercised  for mutual benefit are spoken of. In 2 Corinthians 8:2 ; 2Co 9:11 ; 2 Corinthians 9:13 , Jos. Antt. vii. 13. 4 (where David admires Araunah, τῆς ἁπλότητος καὶ τῆς μεγαλοψυχίας ), the word signifies ‘  liberality :’ so perhaps ἁπλῶς also, James 1:5 , but see note there. This meaning is not recognized by Wahl, Lex., but defended by Tholuck, who connects it with the phrase found in Stobæus, Eclog. Phys. i. p. 123, ἁπλοῦν τὰς χεῖρας , ‘to open the hands wide:’ and I would thus render it here.
	 ὁ προϊστάμενος ]  He that presides but over what? If over  the Church exclusively, we come back to  offices again: and it is hardly likely that the rulers of the Church, as such, would be introduced so low down in the list, or by so very general a term, as this. In 1 Timothy 3:4-5 ; 1 Timothy 3:12 , we have the verb used of  presiding over a man’s own household : and in its absolute usage here, I do not see why that also should not be included. Meyer would understand it of ‘  patronage of strangers’ (ch. Rom 16:2 ). Stuart in his Excursus on this place, appended to his Commentary, takes up and defends the same view. But, not insisting on the  general usage of the word being preferable where it occurs  absolutely , will ἐν σπουδῇ apply to this meaning? Of course so far as σπουδή is applicable to  every employment, it might, but more than this is required, where words are connected in so marked a manner as here. Giving προϊστάμενος the ordinary meaning, these words fit admirably: implying that he who is by God set over others, be they members of the Church or of his own household, must not allow himself to forget his responsibility, and take his duty indolently and easily, but must προΐστασθαι σπουδαίως , making it a serious matter of continual diligence.
	 ὁ ἐλεῶν ] See above:  He that sheweth mercy , is the very best rendering: and I cannot conceive that any  officer of the Church is intended, but every private Christian who exercises compassion. It is in exhibiting compassion, which is often the compulsory work of one obeying his conscience rather than the spontaneous effusion of love, that  cheerfulness is so peculiarly required, and so frequently wanting. And yet in such an act it is even of more consequence towards the effect, consoling the compassionated, than the act itself. κρείσσων λόγος ἢ δόσις , Sir 18:16 .