 11. ]  in zeal (not ‘  business ,’ as E. V., which seems to refer it to the affairs of this life, whereas it relates, as all these in Romans 12:11-13 , to Christian duties  as such : as ‘fervency of spirit,’ ‘acting as God’s servants,’ ‘rejoicing in hope,’ &c.)  not slothful .  ζέων τῷ πν . is used of Apollos, in ref. The Holy Spirit lights this fire within: see Luke 12:49 ; Matthew 3:11 .
	 τ  .   κυρίῳ δουλ .] The external authorities, as will be seen in the var. read., are strongly in favour of this reading. The balance of internal probability, though not easy at once to settle, is I am persuaded on the same side. The main objection to κυρίῳ has ever been, that thus the Apostle would be inserting here, among particular precepts, one of the most general and comprehensive character. So Hilary (in Wetst.) and al. But this will be removed, if we remember,  of what he is speaking : and if I mistake not, the other reading has been defended partly owing to forgetfulness of this. The  present subject is, the  character of our zeal for God . In it we are not to be ὀκνηροί , but fervent in spirit, and that,  as servants of God . A very similar reminiscence of this relation to God occurs Colossians 3:22-24 ; οἱ δοῦλοι , … ὃ ἐὰν ποιῆτε , ἐκ ψυχῆς ἐργάζεσθε ὡς τῷ κυρίῳ καὶ οὐκ ἀνθρώποις , εἰδότες ὅτι ἀπὸ κυρίου ἀπολήμψεσθε τὴν ἀνταπόδοσιν τῆς κληρονομίας .  τῷ κυρίῳ χριστῷ δουλεύετε . The command, τῷ  καιρῷ δουλεύειν , would surely come in very inopportunely in the midst of exhortations to the  zealous service of God . At the same time, it is not easy to give an account of the origin of the reading. The ἐξαγοραζόμενοι τὸν καιρόν of Eph 5:16 may have led to the filling up of the contracted κυρίῳ ( κω ̄) with this word: and the notion that σπουδῇ referred to  worldly business , may have favoured the sense thus given. For examples of the phrase τῷ καιρῷ δουλεύειν and ‘tempori inservire,’ see Wetst. As to its applicability at all to Christians, De Wette well remarks, “The Christian may and should certainly  employ ( Eph 5:16 ) τὸν καιρόν (time and opportunity), but not  serve it.” Athanas. (in Wetst.) ad Dracont. says, οὐ πρέπει τῷ καιρῷ δουλεύειν , ἀλλὰ κυρίῳ .