 1. ]  οὖν may apply to the whole doctrinal portion of the Epistle which has preceded, which, see Ephesians 4:1 ; 1 Thessalonians 4:1 , seems the most natural connexion, or to ch. Romans 11:35-36 (so Olsh., Meyer), or to the whole close of ch. 11 (so Tholuck.) Theodoret remarks: ὅπερ ἔστιν ὀφθαλμὸς ἐν σώματι , τοῦτο τῇ ψυχῇ πίστις , καὶ τῶν θείων ἡ γνῶσις . δεῖται δὲ ὅμως αὕτη τῆς πρακτικῆς ἀρετῆς , καθάπερ ὁ ὀφθαλμὸς χειρῶν καὶ  ποδῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων μορίων τοῦ σώματος . τούτου δὲ χάριν ὁ θεῖος ἀπόστολος τοῖς δογματικοῖς λόγοις καὶ τὴν ἠθικὴν διδασκαλίαν προστέθεικε .
	 διὰ ] introduces, as in reff., an idea which is to give force to the exhortation.
	 οἰκτιρμῶν ] viz. those detailed and proved throughout the former part of the Epistle. δι ʼ αὐτῶν οὖν τούτων , φησί , παρακαλῶ , δι ʼ ὧν ἐσώθητε · ὥσπερ ἂν εἴ τις τὸν μεγάλα εὐεργετηθέντα ἐντρέψαι βουλόμενος , αὐτὸν τὸν εὐεργετήσαντα ἱκέτην ἀγάγοι . Chrys. Hom. xx. p. 656.
	 παραστῆσαι ] the regular word for  bringing to offer in sacrifice (reff.).
	 τ  .   σώματα ὑμ .] Most Commentators say, merely for ὑμᾶς αὐτούς , to suit the metaphor of a  sacrifice , which consisted of a body: some (Thol., al.), because the body is the  organ of practical activity , which practical activity is to be dedicated to God: better with Olsh. and De Wette, as an indication that the sanctification of Christian life is to extend to that part of man’s nature which is most completely under the bondage of sin.
	 θυσίαν ] Chrys. strikingly says, πῶς ἂν γένοιτο τὸ σῶμα , φησί , θυσία ; μηδὲν ὀφθαλμὸς πονηρὸν βλεπέτω , καὶ γέγονε θυσία · μηδὲν ἡ γλῶσσα λαλείτω αἰσχρόν , καὶ γέγονε προσφορά · μηδὲν ἡ χεὶρ πραττέτω παράνομον , καὶ γέγονεν ὁλοκαύτωμα . μᾶλλον δὲ οὐκ ἀρκεῖ ταῦτα , ἀλλὰ καὶ τῆς τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἡμῖν ἐργασίας δεῖ , ἵνα ἡ μὲν χεὶρ ἐλεημοσύνην ποιῇ , τὸ δὲ στόμα εὐλογῇ τοὺς ἐπηρεάζοντας , ἡ δὲ ἀκοὴ θείαις σχολάζῃ διηνεκῶς ἀκροάσεσιν . ἡ γὰρ θυσία οὐδὲν ἔχει ἀκάθαρτον , ἡ θυσία ἀπαρχὴ τῶν ἄλλων ἐστί . καὶ ἡμεῖς τοίνυν καὶ χειρῶν κὰ ποδῶν καὶ στόματος καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἁπάντων ἀπαρχώμεθα τῷ θεῷ . Hom. xx. p. 656 f.
	 ζῶσαν ] In opposition to the  Levitical θυσίαι , which were  slain animals . Our great sacrifice, the Lord Jesus, having been slain for us, and by the shedding of His Blood perfect remission having been obtained διὰ τῶν οἰκτιρμῶν τοῦ θεοῦ , we are now enabled to be offered to God no longer by the shedding of blood, but as  living sacrifices .
	This application of the figure of a sacrifice occurs in Philo, who (‘quod omnis probus liber,’ § 12, vol. ii., p. 457) describes the Essenes as οὐ ζῶα καταθύαντες , ἀλλ ʼ ἱεροπρεπεῖς τὰς ἑαυτῶν διανοίας κατασκευάζειν ἀξιοῦντες . See also Jos, Antt. xviii. 1. 5.
	τῷ θεῷ belongs to εὐάρεστον , not to παραστῆσαι .
	 τὴν λογικὴν λατρ  .   ὑμ .] “This  may certainly be in apposition with θυσίαν (Reiche, Meyer), the acc. denoting the result and intention, θυσία however alone can hardly be called a λατρεία , but παραστῆσαι θυσίαν may: therefore it is preferable to take the acc. as in apposition with  the whole sentence , and supply some verb of exhorting: see 1 Timothy 2:6 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:5 .” Tholuck.
	 λογικήν (reff.) is opposed to σαρκικήν , see Hebrews 7:16 . So Chrys., οὐδὲν ἔχουσαν σωματικόν , οὐδὲν παχύ , οὐδὲν αἰσθητόν . Theodoret, Grot., al., take it as ‘  having reason ,’ ‘rational,’ opposed to sacrifices of animals which have no reason: Photius, Basil, and Calvin, ‘  rational ,’ as opposed to superstitious. But the former meaning is far the best, and answers to the πνευματικὰς θυσίας of 1 Peter 2:5 .