23. the very God—rather as the
	Greek, "the God of peace Himself"; who can do
	for you by His own power what I cannot do by all my monitions,
	nor you by all your efforts (Romans 16:20;
	Hebrews 13:20), namely, keep you from
	all evil, and give you all that is good. 
	sanctify you—for
	holiness is the necessary condition of "peace" (Hebrews 13:20- :). 
	wholly—Greek,
	"(so that you should be) perfect in every respect"
	[TITTMANN]. 
	and—that is, "and
	so (omit 'I pray God'; not in the Greek) may your . . . spirit
	and soul and body be preserved," c. 
	whole—A different Greek
	word from "wholly." Translate, "entire" with none
	of the integral parts wanting [TITTMANN].
	It refers to man in his normal integrity, as originally designed; an
	ideal which shall be attained by the glorified believer. All three,
	spirit, soul, and body, each in its due place, constitute man
	"entire." The "spirit" links man with the higher
	intelligences of heaven, and is that highest part of man which is
	receptive of the quickening Holy Spirit (Hebrews 13:20- :). In the unspiritual, the spirit is so sunk under the lower
	animal soul (which it ought to keep under) that such are
	termed "animal" (English Version. "sensual,"
	having merely the body of organized matter, and the soul
	the immaterial animating essence), having not the Spirit
	(compare 1 Corinthians 2:14; see on 1 Corinthians 2:14- :; 1 Corinthians 2:14- :; 1 Corinthians 2:14- :). The unbeliever shall rise with an animal
	(soul-animated) body, but not like the believer with a
	spiritual (spirit-endued) body like Christ's (1 Corinthians 2:14- :). 
	blameless unto—rather
	as Greek, "blamelessly (so as to be in a blameless state)
	at the coming of Christ." In Hebrew, "peace"
	and "wholly" (perfect in every respect) are kindred terms;
	so that the prayer shows what the title "God of peace"
	implies. BENGEL takes
	"wholly" as collectively, all the Thessalonians
	without exception, so that no one should fail. And "whole
	(entire)," individually, each one of them entire, with
	"spirit, soul, and body." The mention of the preservation
	of the body accords with the subject (1 Corinthians 2:14- :). TRENCH better
	regards "wholly" as meaning, "having perfectly
	attained the moral end," namely, to be a full-grown man
	in Christ. "Whole," complete, with no grace which
	ought to be wanting in a Christian.