16. The cup of blessing—answering
	to the Jewish "cup of blessing," over which thanks were
	offered in the Passover. It was in doing so that Christ instituted
	this part of the Lord's Supper (Matthew 26:27;
	Luke 22:17; Luke 22:20).
	we bless—"we,"
	not merely ministers, but also the congregation. The minister
	"blesses" (that is, consecrates with blessing) the
	cup, not by any priestly transmitted authority of his own, but as
	representative of the congregation, who virtually through him bless
	the cup. The consecration is the corporate act of the whole Church.
	The act of joint blessing by him and them (not "the cup"
	itself, which, as also "the bread," in the Greek is
	in the accusative), and the consequent drinking of it together,
	constitute the communion, that is, the joint participation "of
	the blood of Christ." Compare Luke 22:20- :, "They who eat . . . are partakers" (joint
	communicants). "Is" in both cases in this verse is literal,
	not represents. He who with faith partakes of the cup and the
	bread, partakes really but spiritually of the blood and body of
	Christ (Ephesians 5:30; Ephesians 5:32),
	and of the benefits of His sacrifice on the cross (compare Ephesians 5:32- :). In contrast to this is to have "fellowship with
	devils" (1 Corinthians 10:20).
	ALFORD explains, "The
	cup . . . is the [joint] participation (that is, that whereby the act
	of participation takes place) of the blood," c. It is the seal
	of our living union with, and a means of our partaking of, Christ as
	our Saviour (John 6:53-57).
	It is not said, "The cup . . . is the blood," or
	"the bread . . . is the body," but "is the
	communion [joint-participation] of the blood . . . body."
	If the bread be changed into the literal body of Christ, where is the
	sign of the sacrament? Romanists eat Christ "in remembrance
	of Himself." To drink literal blood would have been an
	abomination to Jews, which the first Christians were (Leviticus 17:11
Leviticus 17:12). Breaking the bread
	was part of the act of consecrating it, for thus was represented the
	crucifixion of Christ's body (Leviticus 17:12- :). The distinct specification of the bread and the wine
	disproves the Romish doctrine of concomitancy, and exclusion of the
	laity from the cup.