Rather are known of God. Rather corrects the first statement, have known God, which might seem to attach too much to human agency in attaining the knowledge of God. The divine side of the process is thrown into the foreground by are known, etc. Known does not mean approved or acknowledged, but simply recognized. Saving knowledge is doubtless implied, but is not expressed in the word. The relation of knowledge between God and his sons proceeds from God. The Galatians had not arrived at the knowledge of God by intuition nor by any process of reasoning. "God knew them ere they knew him, and his knowing them was the cause of their knowing him" (Eadie). Comp. 1 Corinthians 13:12; 2 Timothy 2:19; Matthew 7:23. Dean Stanley remarks that "our knowledge of God is more his act than ours." If God knows a man, that fact implies an activity of God which passes over to the man, so that he, as the subject of God 's knowledge, comes into the knowledge of God. In N. T. ginwskein often implies a personal relation between the knower and the known, so that knowledge implies influence. See 1 Corinthians 2:8; John 1:10; John 2:24; John 17:3. For a parallel to this interchange between the active and the passive, see Philippians 3:12. How [πως] . "A question full of wonder" (Bengel). Comp. I marvel, chapter Galatians 1:6. Turn ye again [επιστρεφετε παλιν] . Better, the continuous present, are ye turning, as of a change still in progress. Comp. chapter Galatians 1:6. Palin again, according to N. T. usage, and corresponding with palin anwqen in the following clause. Not back, which is the earlier sense and the usual classical meaning. Weak and beggarly elements [ασθενη και πτωχα στοιχεια] . For elements see on verse 3. For ptwca beggarly, see on Matthew 5:3. The two adjectives express the utter impotence of these "elements" to do and to bestow what was done and given by God in sending his Son into the world. Comp. Romans 8:3; Hebrews 7:18. Again [παλιν ανωθεν] . Anwqen [ανω αβοςε] adds to palin the idea of going back to the beginning. Its primary meaning is from above; thence, from the first, reckoning in a descending series. So Luke 1:3; Acts 26:5. Acts 26:71 Such combinations as this are not uncommon in N. T. and Class. See, for instance, Acts 18:21; Matthew 26:42; Acts 10:15; John 21:16. But these additions to palin are not pleonastic. They often define and explain it. Thus, John 21:16, palin marks the repetition of Jesus ' question, deuteron the number of the repetition. He asked again, and this was the second time of asking. Ye desire [θελετε] . It was more than a mere desire. They were bent on putting themselves again into bondage. See on Matthew 1:19.