 15 .] Some (Calv., Beza, Grot., Hermann, al.) think that the speech ends with Galatians 2:14 ; Calov., al., with Galatians 2:15 ; Luther, al., with Galatians 2:16 ; Flatt, Neander, al., with Galatians 2:18 ; Jowett, that the conversation gradually passes off into the general subject of the Epistle. “Ver. 14,” he says, “is the answer of St. Paul to St. Peter: what follows, is more like the Apostle musing or arguing with himself, with an indirect reference to the Galatians.” But it seems very unnatural to place any break before the end of the chapter. The Apostle recurs to the Galatians again with ὦ ἀνόητοι Γαλάται , ch. Galatians 3:1 ; and it is harsh in the extreme to suppose him to pass from his speech to Peter into an address to them with so little indication of the transition. I therefore regard the speech (which doubtless is freely reported, and gives rather the bearing of what was said, than the words themselves, as in Acts 22:26 ) as continuing to the end of the chapter, as do Chr., Thdrt., Jer., Est., Beng., Rosenm., Winer, Rückert, Usteri, Olsh., B.-Crus., Meyer, De W.
	 We (thou and I)  by nature (birth)  Jews and not sinners from among the Gentiles (he is speaking to Peter from the common ground of their Judaism, and using (ironically?) Judaistic language, in which the Gentiles were ἄθεοι , ἄνομοι , ἄδικοι , ἁμαρτωλοί (reff.). The putting a comma after ἐθνῶν , and taking ἁμαρτωλοί with ἡμ . φύσ . Ἰουδ . (Prim. in Est., Elsner, Er.-Schmid, al.), ‘  We, by birth Jews, and, though not from the Gentiles, yet sinners ,’ is absurd),  knowing nevertheless (this seems, against Ellic. Exodus 2:0 , the proper force of  δέ here, and is the same in sense as his “  but as we know ,” but clearer)  that a man is not justified by (as the ground of justification: see Ellic.’s note on the sense of ἐκ )  the works of the law (not ‘  by works of law ,’ or ‘  on the score of duty done ’ (Peile): this, though following as an inference, and a generalization of the axiom, was not in question here. ‘  The works of the law ,’ just as ‘the faith of Jesus Christ;’ the genitives in both cases being objective the works which have the law (ceremonial and moral) for their object, which are wrought to fulfil the law: Meyer compares ἁμαρτήματα νόμου , Wis 2:12 , faith which has Jesus Christ for its object, which is reposed in or on Him. On δικαιόω , see note, Rom 1:17 ), (supply, nor is any man justified, and see reff.)  except by (as the medium of justification. Ellic. observes that two constructions seem to be mixed οὐ δικ . ἄνθ . ἐξ ἔργ . ν ., and οὐ δικ . ἄνθ . ἐὰν μὴ διὰ π . Ἰ . χ . ἐὰν μή in this elliptical construction is not elsewhere found: but εἰ μή repeatedly (reff.). The ἐάν seems to remove further off the hypothesis, which arises in the mind, of the two being united)  the faith of (see above)  Jesus Christ ,  we also (as well as the Gentile sinners, q. d., casting aside our legal trust)  believed (reff.)  on Christ Jesus (notice Ἰησ . χρ . above, χρ . Ἰησ . here. This is not arbitrary. In the general proposition above, Ἰησ . χρ ., as the name of Him on whom faith is to be exercised: here, when Jews receive Him as their Messiah, χρ . Ἰησ ., as bringing that Messiahship into prominence. Perhaps, however, such considerations are but precarious. For example, in this case, the readings are in some confusion. It may be remarked, that the Codex Sinaiticus agrees throughout with our text)  that we might be justified by (this time, faith is the  ground )  the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: because (it is an axiom in our theology that)  by the works of the law shall all flesh find no justification (Angl.: ‘  shall no flesh be justified :’ our language not admitting of the logical form of the Greek: but by this transposition of the negative, the sense is not accurately rendered).
	There is a difference between Commentators in the arrangement of the foregoing sentence. Meyer follows Lachmann in placing a period after χριστοῦ , and understanding ἐσμέν at Ἰουδ . or ἁμαρτωλοί . Beza, Hermann, Rückert, Usteri, Ellicott, al., begin a new sentence at εἰδότες δέ , also understanding ἐσμέν . But it seems much better, as above (with De W., al.), to carry on the sentence throughout. Meyer’s objection, that thus it would not represent the matter of fact, for Peter and Paul were not converted as εἰδότες κ . τ . λ ., would apply equally to his own arrangement, for they were not converted ἵνα δικαιωθῶσιν κ . τ . λ .