 2 .]  δέ not only carries on the narrative, emphatically repeating the verb (Mey.), but carries on the refutation also  but I went up (not for any purpose of learning from or consulting others, but)  &c. : So II. ω . 484, ὣς Ἀχιλεὺς θάμβησεν ἰδὼν Πρίαμον θεοειδέα · θάμβησαν δὲ καὶ ἄλλοι , and other examples in Hartung, i. p. 168. Of his undertaking the journey κατ ʼ ἀποκάλυψιν , nothing is said in the Acts, all that is related there being, the appointment by the church of Paul and Barnabas and others to go. What divine intimation Paul may have received, inducing him to offer himself for the deputation, we cannot say: that some such occurred, he here assures us, and it was important for him to assert it, as shewing his dependence only on divine leading, and independence of any behests from the Jerusalem church. Meyer well remarks that the history itself of the Acts furnishes an instance of such a double prompting: Peter was induced by a vision, and at the same time by the messengers of Cornelius, to go to Cæsarea.
	Schrader would give a singular meaning to κατ ʼ ἀποκάλυψιν ; that his visit was  for the purpose of making known the Gospel which he preached, &c. Hermann (de ep. ad Gal. trib. prim, capp., cited by Meyer) agrees: “  explicationis causa, i.e. ut patefieret inter ipsos quæ vera esset Jesu doctrina .” But it is against this sense, that (1) the N. T. usage of ἀποκάλυψις always has respect to  revelation from above , and (2) this very phrase, κατ ʼ ἀποκάλυψιν , is found in ref. Eph. used absolutely as here, undoubtedly there signifying  by revelation . Hermann’s objection that for this meaning, κατά τινα ἀποκ . would be required, is nugatory: not the particular revelation (concrete) which occasioned the journey, but merely the fact that it was by (abstract) revelation, is specified.
	 ἀνεθέμην ] (reff.): so Aristoph. Nub. 1436, ὑμῖν ἀναθεὶς ἅπαντα τἀμὰ πράγματα . See more examples in Wetst.
	 αὐτοῖς ] to the Christians at Jerusalem, implied in Ἱεροσόλ . above: see reff. This wide assertion is limited by the next clause,  κατ  ʼ   ἰδ  . &c. Œc., Calv., Olsh., al. take  αὐτοῖς to mean  the Apostles : in which case, the stress by and by must be on κατ ʼ ἰδίαν ,  I communicated it (  indeed , μέν would more naturally stand here on this interpretation)  to them, but privately (i.e.  more confidentially , but how improbable, that St. Paul should have thus given an exoteric and esoteric exposition of his teaching) τοῖς δοκοῦσιν . Chrys. is quoted for this view by Mey., but not quite correctly; ἐπειδὴ γὰρ ἐν τοῖς Ἱεροσολύμοις πάντες ἐσκανδαλίζοντο , εἴ τις παραβαίη τὸν νόμον , εἴ τις κωλύσειε χρήσασθαι τῇ περιτομῇ … παῤῥησίᾳ μὲν παρελθεῖν κ . τὸ κήρυγμα ἀποκαλύψαι τὸ ἑαυτοῦ οὐκ ἠνείχετο , κατ ʼ ἰδίαν δὲ τοῖς δοκοῦσιν ἀνέθετο ἐπὶ Βαρνάβα κ . Τίτου , ἵνα οὗτοι μάρτυρες ἀξιόπιστοι γένωνται πρὸς τοὺς ἐγκαλοῦντας , ὅτι οὐδὲ τοῖς ἀποστόλοις ἔδοξεν ἐναντίον εἶναι , ἀλλὰ βεβαιοῦσι τὸ κήρυγμα τὸ τοιοῦτον . Estius, characteristically enough, as a Romanist; ‘publice ita contulit, ut ostenderet gentes non debere circumcidi et servare legem Mosis, privato autem et secreto colloquio cum apostolis habito placuit ipsos quoque Judæos ab observantia Mosaiæ legis … esse liberandos.’
	 κατ  .   ἰδ  .   δέ ]  but (limits the foregoing αὐτοῖς ; q. d., “when I say ‘to them,’ I mean.” Ellic. Exodus 2:0 , questions this, and understands δέ to introduce  another conference, more private than that just mentioned)  in private (in a private conference: not to be conceived as separate from, but as specifying, the former ἀνεθέμην )  to those that were eminent (more at length Galatians 2:6 , οἱ δοκοῦντες εἶναί τι . These were James, Cephas, and John, Galatians 2:9 , who appear to have been the only Apostles then at Jerusalem. Olsh. supposes the words to imply  blame , not in the mind of the Apostle himself, but as reflecting on the unworthy exaltation of these Apostles by the Judaizing teachers. He illustrates this by οἱ ὑπερλίαν ἀπόστολοι , 2 Corinthians 11:5 ; but an expression of such feeling here seems out of place, and it is better to understand οἱ δοκοῦντες as describing mere matter of fact; see examples in Kypke and Elsner),  lest by any means I should (seem to)  be running, or (to)  have run, in vain . οὐ περὶ ἑαυτοῦ τέθεικεν , ἀλλὰ περὶ τῶν ἄλλων · τουτέστιν , ἵνα μάθωσιν ἅπαντες τὴν τοῦ κηρύγματος συμφωνίαν , κ . ὅτι κ . τοῖς ἄλλοις ἀρέσκει τὰ ὑπ ʼ ἐμοῦ κηρυττόμενα , Thdrt.: so also Chrys., Thl., Calv., al. The construction of two moods after the same conjunction is found elsewhere in Paul: cf. 1 Thessalonians 3:5 . The present subjunctive τρέχω implies continuance in the course; the 2 aorist indicative ἔδραμον , the course already run. It is quite out of the question, that this last clause should express a bonâ fide fear, lest his ministry should really be, or have been, in vain, without the recognition of the church at Jerusalem (De W., al.): such a sentiment would be unworthy of him, and, besides, at variance with the whole course of his argument here. The reference must be (as Thdrt. above) to the  estimation in which his preaching would be held by those to whom he imparted it. When we consider the very strong prejudices of the Jerusalem church, this feeling of anxiety, leading him to take measures to prevent his work from being tumultuously disowned by them, is surely but natural. On εἰς κενόν and τρέχω , see reff. (The grammatical difficulty is well discussed in Ellicott’s note.)