 14 .]  ὀρθοποδεῖν apparently not occurring elsewhere, its meaning must be got from cognate words. We have ἀτραπὸν ὀρθοβατεῖν , Anthol. ix. 11, ὀρθοπραγεῖν , Arist. Eth. Eud. iii. 2, and ὀρθοτομέω , ὀρθοδρομέω , &c.:  to walk straight is therefore undoubtedly its import, and metaphorically (cf. περιπατεῖν , στοιχεῖν frequently in Paul),  to behave uprightly .
	 πρός ] It is best, with Meyer, to take ἀλήθεια as in Galatians 2:5 , and render, connecting πρός with ὀρθοποδοῦσιν ,  towards (  with a view to )  maintaining and propagating the truth (objectively, the unadulterated character)  of the Gospel . Others (De W., al.) render πρός ‘  with reference to ,’ (‘  according to ,’ E.V.,) and take τ . ἀλήθ . τ . εὐ to mean ‘  the truth (-  fulness of character )  required by the Gospel .’ Mey. remarks, that St. Paul does not express  nouns after verbs of motion by πρός , but by κατά , cf. Romans 8:4 ; Romans 14:15 ; 1 Corinthians 3:3 . Ellic. however answers, that in all these instances, περιπατέω , St. Paul’s favourite verb of moral motion, is used, and that ὀρθοποδέω does not so plainly express motion as περιπατέω . Still, I prefer the former meaning, as better suiting the expression ἡ ἀλήθεια τ . εὐαγγ .: cf. Galatians 2:5 .
	 ἔμπρ  .   πάντ  . ] ‘before the church assembled.’ The words require this, and the reproof would otherwise have fallen short of its desired effect on the Jewish converts.
	The speech which follows, and which I believe to extend to the end of the chapter, must be regarded as a compendium of what was said, and a free report of it, as we find in the narratives by St. Paul himself of his conversion. See below.  If thou, being (by birth, originally, cf. Act 16:20 and note)  a Jew, livest (as thy usual habit. As Neander (Pfl. u. Leit., p. 114) remarks, these words shew that Peter had long been himself convinced of the truth on this matter, and lived according to it: see further on Gal 2:18 )  as a Gentile (  how , is shewn by μετὰ τῶν ἐθνῶν συνήσθιεν above)  and not as a Jew, how (is it that (reff.))  thou art compelling the Gentiles (i.e. virtually and ultimately; for the high authority of Peter and Barnabas would make the Gentile converts view their course as necessary to all Christians. There is no need, with De W. and Wieseler, to suppose that the τινες ἀπὸ Ἰακ . actually compelled the Gentile converts to Judaize, as necessary to salvation, and Peter upheld them: nor is there any difficulty in the expression: the present may mean, as it often does, ‘  art compelling to the best of thy power ,’ ‘  doing thy part to compel ,’ for such certainly would be the  ultimate result , if Jews and Gentiles might not company together in social life “his principle logically involved this, or his influence and example would be likely to effect it.” Jowett)  to Judaize (observe the ceremonial law)?