 6 .] He returns to his sojourn in Jerusalem, and his intercourse with the δοκοῦντες . The construction is difficult, and has been very variously given. It seems best (and so most Commentators) to regard it as an anacoluthon. The Apostle begins with ἀπὸ δὲ ῶν δοκούντων εἶναί τι , having it in his mind to add οὐδὲν προσελαβόμην or the like: but then, going off into the parenthesis ὁποῖοί ποτε ἦσαν &c., he entirely loses sight of the original construction, and proceeds with ἐμοὶ γάρ &c., which follows on the parenthesis, the γάρ rendering a reason (this is still my view, against Ellic. whose note see) for the οὐδέν μοι διαφέρει &c. De Wette and others think that the parenthesis ends at λαμβάνει , and the construction is resumed from ἀπὸ δέ &c. in an active instead of in a passive form: but it seems better, with Meyer, to regard the parenthesis as never formally closed, and the original construction not resumed. Other ways are; (1) most of the Greek Fathers (Chrys. hardly says enough for this to be inferred as his opinion), and others (e.g. Olsh., Rückert) take ἀπό as belonging to διαφέρει , as if it were περί : so Thl., οὐδεμία μοι φροντίς περὶ τῶν δοκούντων , &c. The preposition seems capable, if not exactly of this interpretation, of one very nearly akin to it, as in βλέπετε ἀπό and the like expressions: but the objection is, that it is unnatural to join διαφέρει with ἀπό which lies so far from it, when όποῖοί ποτε ἦσ . so completely fills up the construction. (2) Homberg (Parerg. p. 275: Meyer) renders, ‘  ab illis vero, qui videntur esse aliquid, non differo .’ But as Meyer remarks, though διαφέρω ἀπό τινος may bear this meaning, certainly διαφέρει μοι ἀπό τινος cannot. (3) Hermann assumes an aposiopesis, and understands ‘  what should I fear? ’ but an aposiopesis seems out of place in a passage which does not rise above the fervour of narrative. See other interpretations in Meyer and De Wette.
	 οἱ δοκοῦντ  .   εἶναί τι may be either subjective (‘  those who believe themselves to be something ’), or objective (‘  those who have the estimation of being something ’). The latter is obviously the meaning here.
	 ποτε is understood by some to mean ‘  once ,’ ‘  olim :’ ‘whatever they once were, when Christ was on earth:’ so vulg. (‘  quales aliquando fuerint ’), Pelag., Luth., Beza, al. But this is going out of the context, and unnecessary.
	The emphasis is on  μοι , and is again taken up by the  ἐμοὶ γάρ below. Phrynichus (p. 384) condemns τίνι διαφέπει as not used by the best writers, but Lobeck (note, ibid.) has produced examples of it, as well as of the more approved construction τί διαφέρει , from Xenophon, Plato, and Aristotle.
	 πρόσεπ  …   λαμβ  . ] q. d. ‘I wish to form all my judgments according to  God’s rule which is that of strict unbiassed justice.’ See Ephesians 6:9 .
	 προσανέθεντο ] as in ch. Galatians 1:16 ,  imparted . As I, at my first conversion, did not impart it to flesh and blood, so they now imparted nothing to me: we were independent the one of the other. The meaning ‘  added ’ ( οὐκ ἐδίδαξαν , οὐ διώρθωσαν , οὐδὲν προσέθηκαν ὧν ᾔδειν , Chrys.; so Thdrt., and most Commentators, and E. V. ‘  in conference added ’) is not justified by the usage of the word: see note, as above. Rückert, Bretschneider, Olsh., al. explain it: ‘  laid on no additional burden .’ But this is the active, not the middle, signification of the verb: see Xen. Mem. ii. 1. 8, where προσαναθέσθαι is not ‘to impose on another additional duties,’ but ‘to take them on a man’s self.’