 1 .  διὰ δεκατ  .   ἐτῶν ] First,  what does this διὰ  imply? According to well-known usage, διὰ with a genitive of time or space signifies ‘through and beyond:’ thus, ὁ μὲν χρόνος δὴ διὰ χρόνου προὔβαινέ μοι , Soph. Philoct. 285, διὰ δέκα ἐπάλξεων πύργοι ἦσαν μεγάλοι , Thuc. iii. 21, and then τῶν πύργων ὄντων δι ʼ ὀλίγου : see reff., and Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 235. Winer, Gramm. edn. 6, § 51. (The  instrumental usage, διὰ δακρύων , διὰ νυκτός , &c. is derived from this, the instrument being regarded as the means, passed through before the end is attained: but obviously has no place here, where a  definite time is mentioned.) See more in Ellic.  διὰ δεκ  .   ἐτ  . then is  after fourteen years , δεκατεσσάρων παρελθόντων ἐτῶν , Chrys. Next,  from what time are we to reckon? Certainly at first sight it would appear,  from the journey last mentioned . And Meyer maintains that we are bound to accept this first impression without enquiring any further. But why? Is the  prima facie view of a construction always right? Did we, or did he, judge thus in ch. Gal 1:18 ? Are we not bound, in all such cases, should any reason  ab extra exist for doing so, to reexamine the passage, and ascertain whether our  prima facie impression may not have arisen from neglecting some indication furnished by the context? That this is the case here, I am persuaded. The ways of speaking, in ch. Galatians 1:18 , and here, are very similar. The ἔπειτα in both cases may be well taken as referring back to the same  terminus a quo , διὰ being used in this verse as applying to the  larger interval, or even perhaps to prevent the fourteen years being counted from the event last mentioned, as they would more naturally be, had a second μετά been used. What would there be forced or unnatural in a statement of the following kind? “After my conversion ( ὅτε δέ , &c. ch. Gal 1:15 ) my occasions of communicating with the other Apostles were these: (1) after three years I went up, &c. (2) after fourteen years had elapsed, I again went up, &c.?” This view is much favoured, if not rendered decisive, by the change in position of ἐτῶν and the numeral, in this second instance. In ch. Galatians 1:18 , it is μετὰ ἔτη τρία : ἔτη , in the first mention of the interval, having the emphatic place. But now, it is not δι ʼ ἐτῶν δεκατεσσάρων , but διὰ δεκατεσσάρων ἐτῶν ἐτῶν now passing into the shade, and the numeral having the emphasis a clear indication to me that the ἔτη have the same reference as before, viz. to the  time of his conversion . A list, and ample discussion, of the opinions on both sides, will be found in Anger, de ratione temporum, ch. 4.
	This (cf. Chronol. Table in Prolegg. Vol. II.) would bring the visit here related to the year 50: see below.
	 πάλιν ἀνέβην ]  I again went up : but nothing is said, and there was no need to say any thing, of another visit during the interval. It was the object of the Apostle to specify,  not all his visits to Jerusalem , but  all his occasions of intercourse with the other Apostles : and it is mere trifling, when Meyer, in his love of creating discrepancies, maintains that in such a narration as this, St. Paul would be putting a weapon into the hands of his opponents by omitting his second journey. That journey was undertaken ( Act 11:30 ) in pursuance of a mission from the church at Antioch, to convey alms to the elders of the suffering church at Jerusalem. It was at a period of persecution, when James the son of Zebedee and Peter were under the power of Herod. and in all probability the other Apostles were scattered. Probably Barnabas and Saul did not see any of them. They merely ( Act 12:25 ) fulfilled their errand, and brought back John Mark. If in that visit he had no intercourse with the Apostles, as his business was not with them, the mention of it here would be irrelevant: and to attempt, as Mey., to prove the Acts inaccurate, because that journey is not mentioned here, is simply absurd. That the visit here described is in all probability the THIRD related in the Acts (A.D. 50) on occasion of the council of Apostles and elders (Acts 15:0 ), I have shewn in a note to the chronological table, Prolegomena to Acts, Vol. II. The various separate circumstances of the visit will be noticed as we proceed.
	 συνπ  .   καὶ Τίτον ] In Acts 15:2 , ἔταξαν ἀναβαίνειν Π . κ . Βαρν . καί τινας ἄλλους ἐξ αὐτῶν . Titus is here particularized by name, on account of the notice which follows, Galatians 2:3 ; and the  καί serves to take him out from among the others. On Titus, see Prolegg. to Ep. to Titus.