 12 .] These τινες ἀπὸ Ἰακώβον have been softened by some Commentators into persons who merely  gave themselves out as from James (Winer, &c. and even Ellicott, edn. 2), or who merely came from Jerusalem where James presided (Beza, Grot., Olsh., &c.). But the candid reader will I think at once recognize in the words a  mission from James (so Thl., Œc., Estius (doubtfully), Rückert, Meyer, De W.): and will find no difficulty in believing that that Apostle, even after the decision of the council regarding the Gentile converts, may have retained (characteristically, see his recommendatior to St. Paul, in Acts 21:18 ff.) his strict view of the duties of Jewish converts, for that is perhaps all that the present passage requires. And this mission may have been for the very purpose of admonishing the Jewish converts of  their obligations, from which the Gentiles were free. Thus we have no occasion to assume (with De W.) that James had in the council been over-persuaded by the earnestness and eloquence of Paul, and had afterwards undergone a reaction: for his course will be consistent throughout. And my view seems to me to be confirmed by his own words, Acts 15:19 , where the emphatic τοῖς ἀπὸ τῶν ἐθνῶν ἐπιστρέφουσιν tacitly implies, that the Jews would be bound as before.
	 συνήσθιεν ] As he had done, Acts 10:0 , on the prompting of a heavenly vision; and himself defended it, Acts 11:0 . See below.
	 ὑπέστελλεν ] as well as ἀφώριζεν , governs ἑαυτόν :  withdrew himself . So Polyb. i. 16. 10, ὁ δὲ βασιλεὺς Ἱέρων , ὑποστείλας ἑαυτὸν ὑπὸ τὴν Ῥωμαίων σκέπην , and al. freq. The imperfects express that there were more cases than one where he did this it was the course he took.
	 φοβούμενος ]  being afraid of . Chrys., to bear out his interpretation of the whole incident, says, οὐ τοῦτο φοβούμενος , μὴ κινδυνεύσῃ · ὁ γὰρ ἐν ἀρχῇ μὴ φοβηθείς (witness his denial of his Lord), πολλῷ μᾶλλον τότε · ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα μὴ ἀποστῶσιν . ἐπεὶ καὶ αὐτὸς λέγει Γαλάταις , φοβοῦμαι ὑμᾶς μή πως εἰκῆ κεκοπίακα κ . τ . λ . And so Piscator, Grot., Estius, al. The whole incident is remarkably characteristic of Peter ever the first to recognize, and the first to draw back from, great principles and truths: see this very ably enlarged on in Jowett’s note on Galatians 2:11 .