 4 .]  but (i.e. ‘  and this :’ the construction of the sentence is (against Ellic.) precisely as Galatians 2:2 ; this δέ restricts and qualifies the broader assertion which went before. ‘  Titus was not compelled …:  and that ,’ &c. To connect this with Galatians 2:2 , supposing Gal 2:3 to be parenthetical, as Mr. Bagge, seems harsh, and unnecessary. A second δέ would hardly be found in the same sentence in this restrictive sense)  on account of the false brethren who had been foisted in among us (the Judaizers in the church at Jerusalem, see Acts 15:1 . The word παρείσακτος is not found elsewhere. It occurs in the title of the “prologus incerti auctoris” to Sirach: πρόλογος παρείσακτος ἀδήλου . It is found however in the lexicons of Hesych., Photius, and Suidas, and interpreted ἀλλότριος . The verb παρεισάγειν is common in Polybius, without any idea of surreptitious introduction: see Schweigh.’s Index: but such an idea certainly seems here to be attached to it, by the repetition of παρεις -, in  παρεισῆλθον immediately after),  men who (  οἵτινες classifies)  crept in to spy out (in a hostile sense: so Chrys., ὁρᾷς πῶς καὶ τῇ τῶν κατασκόπων προσηγορίᾳ ἐδήλωσε τὸν πόλεμον ἐκείνων , reff., and Eur. Helen. 1607, ὅποι νοσοῖεν ξυμμάχων κατασκοπῶν )  our freedom (from the ceremonial law: to see whether, or how far, we kept it)  which we have in Christ Jesus, with intent to enslave us utterly (the future after ἵνα is found John 17:2 ; Revelation 3:9 ; Revelation 8:3 ; Revelation 22:14 . Hermann, on Œd. Col. 156, says “futuro non jungitur ἵνα ,  ut .” The construction of the future with ὅπως and ὅπως μή is common enough in the classics. Winer remarks, Gr. edn. 6, § 41. b. 1. b, that it denotes continuance, whereas the aorist subjunctive is used of something transitory: but qu.? I should rather say that it signifies the certain sequence, in the view of the agent, of that which follows, not merely that it is his intent, and that it arises from the mingling of two constructions, beginning as if ἵνα with the subjunctive were about to be used, and then passing off to the direct indicative);  to whom not even for one hour (reff.)  did we (Barnabas, Titus, and myself)  yield with the subjection required of us (dative of the manner: the article giving the sense, ‘  with the subjection claimed .’ Fritzsche takes it, ‘yield by complying with the wish of the  Apostles :’ but this is manifestly against the context: Hermann, and similarly Bretschneider, ‘  quibus ne horæ quidem spatium Jesu obsequio segnior fui ,’ absurdly enough, against the whole drift of the passage, and the Apostle’s usage of ὑποταγή abstractedly),  that the truth of the Gospel (as contrasted with the perverted view which they would have introduced: but not to be confounded with τὸ ἀληθὲς εὐαγγέλιον . Had they been overborne in this point, the verity of the Gospel would have been endangered among them, i.e. that doctrine of justification, on which the Gospel turns as the truth of God)  might abide (reff.: and note on ch. Gal 1:18 )  with you (‘  you Galatians :’ not, ‘  you Gentiles in general :’ the fact was so, the Galatians, specially, not being in his mind at the time: it is only one of those cases where, especially if a rhetorical purpose is to be served, we apply home to the particular what, as matter of fact, it only shares as included in the general).
	The omission of οἷς οὐδέ in this sentence (see var. readd.) has been an attempt to simplify the construction, and at the same time to reconcile Paul’s conduct with that in Acts 16:3 , where he circumcised Timothy on account of the Jews. But the circumstances were then widely different: and the whole narrative in Acts 15:0 . makes it extremely improbable that the Apostle should have pursued such a course on this occasion.