 17 .] Continues the argument.  But if, seeking (put first for emphasis in the course of our earnest endeavour)  to be justified in Christ (as the element the Body, comprehending us the members. This is lost sight of by rendering ‘  through Christ’),  we ourselves also (you and I, addressed to Peter)  were found to be sinners (as we should be, if we regarded the keeping of the law as necessary; for we should be just in the situation of those Gentiles who in the Judaistic view are ἁμαρτωλοί , faith having failed in obtaining righteousness for us, and we having cast aside the law which we were bound to keep)  is therefore Christ the minister of sin (i.e. are we to admit the consequence which would in that case be inevitable, that Christ, having failed to obtain for his own the righteousness which is by faith, has left them sinners, and so has done all His work only to minister to a state of sin)?
	Whether we read ἄρα or ἆρα matters little; either will express the meaning, but the latter more pungently than the former. The clause must be interrogative, as μὴ γένοιτο always follows a question in St. Paul; see reff.
	Those who would take ἆρα for ἆρ ʼ οὐ (qu. can it ever be so taken, in spite of Matthiæ (Gr. Gr. § 641), Winer (comm. h. l., but not in Gr. Exodus 6:0 , § 57. 2, where he allows the translation given above), Monk (on Eur. Alcest. 353), and Porson (pref. to Hec. p. x)?) seem to me to miss altogether the fine irony of the question, which, as it stands, presupposes the ἆρ ʼ οὐ question already asked, the inevitable answer given, and now puts the result, ‘Can we believe, are we to hold henceforth, such a consequence?’ The same might be said of all the passages alleged by the above scholars in support of their view. Theodoret expresses well the argument: εἰ δὲ ὅτι τὸν νόμον καταλιπόντες τῷ χριστῷ προσεληλύθαμεν , διὰ τῆς ἐπ ʼ αὐτὸν πίστεως τῆς δικαιοσύνης ἀπολαύσασθαι προσδοκήσαντες , παράβασις τοῦτο νενόμισται , εἰς αὐτὸν ἡ αἰτία χωρήσει τὸν δεσπότην χριστόν · αὐτὸς γὰρ ἡμῖν τὴν καινὴν ὑπέδειξε διαθήκην · ἀλλὰ μὴ γένοιτο ταύτην ἡμᾶς τολμῆσαι τὴν βλασφημίαν .