 13 .  συνυπεκρ  . ]  were guilty of like hypocrisy . The word is not (as De W.) too strong a one to describe their conduct. They were aware of the liberty in Christ which allowed them to eat with Gentiles, and had practised it: and now, being still aware of it, and not  convinced to the contrary, from mere fear of man they adopted a contrary course. The case bore but very little likeness to that discussed in 1 Corinthians 8-10; Romans 14:0 . There, it was a mere matter of  licence which was in question: here, the very foundation itself. It was not now a question of using a liberty, but of asserting a truth, that of justification by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law.
	 ὥστε  …   συναπήχθη ] The indicative usually follows ὥστε , when the result is matter of fact: the infinitive usually, when it is matter of course as well. So Herod. vi. 83, Ἄργος δὲ ἀνδρῶν ἐχηρώθη οὕτω , ὥστε οἱ δοῦλοι αὐτέων ἔσχον πάντα τὰ πρήγματα , where it was not a necessary consequence of the depopulation, but a result which followed as matter of fact (so also John 3:16 , where the sending the Son to be the Saviour of the world was not a necessary consequence of the Father’s love, but followed it as its result in fact: so that it is (against Ellic. edn. 1) an instance in point): Plato, Apol. 37 c, οὕτως ἀλόγιστός εἰμι , ὥστε μὴ δύνασθαι λογίζεσθαι , where the degree of ἀλογία supposed involves the result of not being able to reason at all. See Krüger, Gram. § 65, 3. 1; Kühner, ii. p. 563. But the distinction does not seem always to be accurately observed.
	On  συναπ  . , see ref. Rom., and note. Understand αὐτοῖς after συναπ ., and take τῇ ὑπ . as the instrumental dative: ‘  was carried away (  with them )  by their hypocrisy :’ or possibly the dative of the state  into which &c.: see 2 Peter 3:17 ; but this construction seems questionable: see Ellic. edn. 2. Fritz. cites Zosimus, Hist. Galatians 2:6 , καὶ αὐτὴ δὲ ἡ Σπάρτη συναπήγετο τῇ κοινῇ τῆς Ἑλλάδος ἁλώσει : add Clem. Alex. Strom. i. 17, p. 368 P., τῇ ἡδονῇ συναπαγόμενος (Ellicott). “Besides the antagonism in which this passage represents the two great Apostles, it throws an important light on the history of the apostolic church in the following respects: 1] As exhibiting Peter’s relation to James, and his fear of those who were of the circumcision, whose leader we should have naturally supposed him to have been. 2] Also, as pourtraying the state of indecision in which all, except St. Paul, even including Barnabas, were in reference to the observance of the Jewish law.” Jowett.