Matthew 7:6. If the preceding verses were addressed to the opposing Pharisees, our Lord now turns to the disciples. We prefer to explain: Harsh judgment and unwise correction of others were reproved (Matthew 7:1-5); now comes a warning against laxity of judgment, childish ignorance of men. The two extremes often meet. The latter, no less than censoriousness, is an unwise attempt at the correction of others, and will be avoided by those who ‘see clearly.’
	 Give not that which is holy,  i.e., the sacrificial meat, the provision of the priests, unto the dogs. These, regarded as specially unclean in the East, will receive it, but such giving will be a desecration.
	 Neither cast ye your pearls before the swine.  Still more foolish; ‘the swine’ will not receive the ‘pearls,’ which are of no value to them, as they cannot eat them. A resemblance between pearls and the natural food of swine need not be assumed; the reference is to what is most precious. ‘The dogs’ and ‘the swine’ were both unclean, the former probably represent what is ‘low, unclean, heretical; the latter what is hostile, stubborn, and savage.’ Eastern dogs are more disgusting than ours, and eastern swine more savage. The rest of the verse applies only to the savage swine.
	 Lest they trample them under their feet. The pollution, not the destruction, of the precious things is represented.
	 And turn and rend you, turning from the precious pearls,  or, turning upon you. The main reason urged is the defilement of what is precious; but the other danger follows. ‘Even saving truth must be withheld from those who would surely reject it with contempt and savage hatred’ (J. A. Alexander). Lange: ‘The dogs ultimately become swine, just as that which is holy is further designated as pearls, and the iniquity of the first action passes into the madness of the second. At last the full consequences appear, when the swine turn from the gift to the giver and rend the profane sinners.’ No encouragement, however, either to ‘cowardly suppression of the truth,’ or revenge against its rejectors. The Crusaders and others drew the latter inference. Pharisaism does not ‘cast out the beam,’ but often ‘casts away the pearls.’
	