3.Therefore, brethren, look out. Now we see to what end deacons were made. The word itself is indeed general, yet is it properly taken for those which are stewards for the poor. Whereby it appeareth how licentiously the Papists do mock God and men, who assign unto their deacons no other office but this, to have the charge of (331) the paten and chalice. Surely we need no disputation to prove that they agree in no point with the apostles. But if the readers be desirous to see any more concerning this point, they may repair unto our Institution, chapter 8. As touching this present place, the Church is permitted to choose. For it is tyrannous if any one man appoint or make ministers at his pleasure. (332) Therefore, this is the (most) lawful way, that those be chosen by common voices (333) who are to take upon them (334) any public function in the Church. And the apostles prescribe what manner [of] persons ought to be chosen, to wit, men of tried honesty and credit, (335) men endued with wisdom (336) and other gifts of the Spirit. And this is the mean between tyranny and confused liberty, (337) that nothing be done without (338) the consent and approbation of the people, yet so that the pastors moderate and govern (this action, (339)) that their authority may be as a bridle to keep under the people, (340) lest they pass their bounds too much. In the mean season, this is worth the noting, that the apostles prescribe an order unto the faithful, lest they appoint any save those which are fit. For we do God no small injury if we take all that come to hand (341) to govern his house. Therefore, we must use great circumspection that we choose none (342) unto the holy function of the Church unless we have some trial of him first. The number of seven is applied (343) unto the present necessity, lest any man should think (344) that there is some mystery comprehended under the same. Whereas Luke saith, full of the Spirit and wisdom, I do interpret it thus, that it is requisite that they be furnished both with other gifts of the Spirit, and also with wisdom, (345) without which that function cannot be exercised well, both that they may beware of the leger-demain (346) of those men, who being too much given unto begging, require (347) that which is necessary for the poverty of the brethren, and also of their slanders, who cease not to backbite, though they have none occasion given them. For that function is not only painful, but also subject to many ungodly murmurings. (348) (331) “Tractent,” to handle. (332) “Constituat suo arbitrio,” constitute at his own pleasure. (333) “Elegi communibus suffragiis,” be elected by the common suffrages. (334) “Obidentia,” are to perform. (335) “Probate fidei,” of tried faith. (336) “Prudentia,” wisdom or prudence. (337) “Licentiam,” licentious freedom. (338) “Nisi ex,” except by. (339) “Pastores tamen moderentur,” let pastors, however, moderate. (340) “Ad cohibendos plebis impetus,” to curb the impetus (precipitancy or violence) of the people. (341) “Si fortuito quoslibet accipimus, “if we receive all persons whatsoever fortuitously. (342) “Summa religio ne quis sumatur,” the greatest care that none be chosen. (343) “Accommodatus fuit,” was accommodated. (344) “Ne quis putet,” let no man suppose. (345) “Prudentia.” (346) “Imposturis et fraudibus,” the imposition and fraud. (347) “Exsugunt,” suck up. (348) “Non laboriosa modo, sed obnoxia sinistris murmuribus,” is not only laborious, but liable to sinister murmurings. 