If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things [ταυτα υποτιθεμενος τοις αδελφοις] . The verb only here and Romans 16:4. Lit. to put under; so almost without exception in LXX See, for instance, Genesis 28:18; Genesis 47:29; Exodus 17:12. So Romans 16:4. Hence, metaphorically, to suggest, which is, literally, to carry or lay under. Tauta these things are those mentioned vv. 4, 5. In the Pastorals it is only here that aJudelfoi brethren means the members of the church to whose superintendent the letter is addressed. In 2 Timothy 4:21, they are the Christians of the church from which the letter comes; in 1 Timothy 6:2, Christians in general; and in 1 Timothy 5:1, without any ecclesiastical sense. Minister of Jesus Christ [διακονος χριστου ιησου] . Rendering Christ himself a service by setting himself against ascetic errors. For diakonov minister see on ch. 1 Timothy 3:8. Here in the general sense of servant, without any official meaning. Paul 's more usual phrase is servant of God : servant [διακονος] of Christ twice, and diakonov Ihsou Cristou not at all. Paul uses doulov bond - servant with Jesus Christ. See 2 Corinthians 11:23; Colossians 1:7; and comp. Romans 1:1; Galatians 1:10; Philippians 1:1. Nourished up [εντρεφομενος] . Better, nourishing thyself. N. T. o. o LXX The participle indicates the means by which Timothy may become a good minister. Comp. Hebrews 5:12-14. In the words of faith. The words in which the faith - the contents of belief - finds expression. Comp. ch. 1 Timothy 6:3; 2 Timothy 1:13. The phrase only here. Paul has to rJhma thv pistewv the word of the faith, Romans 10:8. Whereunto thou hast attained [η παρηκολουθηκας] . Wrong. Rend., which thou hast closely followed. Comp. 2 Timothy 3:10. The verb means, primarily, to follow beside, to attend closely. In this literal sense not in N. T. To attend to or follow up, as a disease. So Plato, Rep. 406 B, parakolouqwn tw noshmati qanasimw perpetually tending a mortal disease. To follow up a history or a succession of incidents, as Luke 1:3. o P. The writer means that Timothy, as a disciple, has closely attended to his course of Christian instruction.