Bodily exercise [η σωματικη γυμνασια] . With gumnasia comp. gumnaze, ver. 7. N. T. o. Swmatikov bodily only here and Luke 3:22. o LXX The adverb swmatikwv bodily - wise, Colossians 2:9. The words are to be taken in their literal sense as referring to physical training in the palaestra - boxing, racing, etc. Comp. 1 Corinthians 9:24-27. Some, however, find in them an allusion to current ascetic practices; against which is the statement that such exercise is profitable, though only for a little. Profiteth little [προς ολιγον εστιν ωφελιμος] . Lit. is profitable for a little. The phrase prov ojligon only here and James 5:14. In the latter passage it means for a little while. Comp. Hebrews 12:10, prov ojligav hJmerav for a few days. According to some, this is the meaning here; but against this is the antithesis prov panta unto all things. The meaning is rather, the use of the athlete's training extends to only a few things. Wfelimov useful or profitable, only in Pastorals. Comp. 2 Timothy 3:16; Titus 3:8. o LXX Godliness [ευσεβεια] . See on ch. 1 Timothy 2:2, and Introduction, 6 Having promise [επαγγελιαν εχουσα] . The exact phrase only here. Comp. 2 Corinthians 7:1; Hebrews 7:6. The participle is explanatory, since it has promise. For ejpaggelia promise see on Acts 1:4. The life that now is [ζωης της νυν] . According to the strict Greek idiom, life the now. This idiom and the following, thv melloushv N. T. o. The phrase oJ nun aijwn the present aeon, 1 Timothy 6:17; 2 Timothy 4:10; Titus 2:12. O aijwn ou=tov this aeon, a few times in the Gospels, often in Paul, nowhere else. We have oJ aijwn oJ mellwn the aeon which is to be, and oJ aijwn oJ ejrcomenov or ejpercomenov the aeon which is coming on, in the Gospels, once in Paul (Ephesians 2:7), and in Hebrews once, mellwn aijwn without the article. En tw kairw toutw in this time, of the present as contrasted with the future life, Mark 10:30; Luke 18:30. O nun kairov the now time, in the same relation, Romans 8:18. For zwh life see on John 1:4. The force of the genitive with ejpaggelia promise may be expressed by for. Godliness involves a promise for this life and for the next; but for this life as it reflects the heavenly life, is shaped and controlled by it, and bears its impress. Godliness has promise for the present life because it has promise for the life which is to come. Only the life which is in Christ Jesus (2 Timothy 1:1) is life indeed, 1 Timothy 6:19. Comp. 1 Peter 3:10; 1 Corinthians 3:21-23.