Neglect [αμελει] . Rare in N. T. Only Matthew 22:5; Hebrews 2:3; Hebrews 8:9. The gift that is in thee [του εν σοι χαρισματος] . Comp. 2 Timothy 1:6. Carisma gift is a distinctively Pauline word, being found only three times outside of Paul 's Epistles, and o LXX, o Class. See on Romans 1:11. That is in thee, comp. thv ejn soi pistewv the faith that is in thee, 2 Timothy 1:5. The meaning is the special inward endowment which qualified Timothy for exhortation and teaching, and which was directly imparted by the Holy Spirit. 112 By prophecy [δια προφητειας] . See on 1 Timothy 1:18. Profhteiav genitive, not accusative. The meaning is by the medium of prophecy. The reference is to prophetic intimation given to Paul concerning the selection of Timothy for the ministerial office. These prophecies were given by the Holy Spirit who bestowed the " gift ", so that the gift itself and the prophecy concurred in attesting the candidate for ordination. With the laying on of the hands [μετα επιθεσεως των χειρων] . Meta implies that the prophetic intimations were in some way repeated or emphasised in connection with the ceremony of ordination. We note the association of prophecy with ordination in the setting apart of Paul and Barnabas (Acts 13:9, Acts 13:3); so that the case of Timothy has an analogue in that of Paul himself. 113 Epiqesiv laying on, emposition, also Acts 8:18; 2 Timothy 1:6; Hebrews 6:2, in each case with of hands. "The custom," says Lange, "is as old as the race." The Biblical custom rests on the conception of the hand as the organ of mediation and transference. The priest laid his hand on the head of the bullock or goat (Leviticus 1:4) to show that the guilt of the people was transferred. The hand was laid on the head of a son, to indicate the transmission of the hereditary blessing (Genesis 48:14); upon one appointed to a position of authority, as Joshua (Numbers 27:18-23); upon the sick or dead in token of miraculous power to heal or to restore to life (2 Kings 4:34). So Christ (Mark 6:5; Luke 4:40). In the primitive Christian church the laying on of hands signified the imparting of the Holy Spirit to the newly - baptized (Acts 8:17; Acts 19:6; comp. Hebrews 6:2). Hands were laid Upon the seven (Acts 6:6). But the form of consecration in ordination varied. No one mode has been universal in the church, and no authoritative written formula exists. In the Alexandrian and Abyssinian churches it was by breathing : in the Eastern church generally, by lifting up the hands in benediction : in the Armenian church, by touching the dead hand of the predecessor : in the early Celtic church, by the transmission of relics or pastoral staff : in the Latin church, by touching the head. Of the presbytery [του πρεσβυτεριου] . The word is found in Luke 22:66, where it denotes the body of representative elders of the people in the Sanhedrim, as distinguished from the two other constituents of that body - the chief priests and scribes. Similarly Acts 22:5. Here of the college or fraternity of Christian elders in the place where Timothy was ordained. The word is frequent in the Epistles of Ignatius. 114 According to this, Timothy was not ordained by a Bishop. Bishop and Presbyter are not identical. In 2 Timothy 1:6 we read, "by the laying on of my hands." The inconsistency is usually explained by saying that Paul was associated with the Presbyters in the laying on of hands.