Luke 10:42.  But there is need of one thing.  A few authorities omit: ‘and troubled about many things’ and this clause also; a number of others read here: ‘of few things, or of one.’ We vary the order from that of the E. V., since ‘but one thing,’ etc., is usually wrongly taken to mean: ‘  only  one thing.’ The contrast with the preceding verse shows that this clause means: one thing is needful as the proper object of the anxiety and carefulness which we may manifest in receiving the Lord. A reference to one dish is trivial.
	 For Mary hath chosen the good part,  etc. Mary’s choice proved what the ‘one thing’ was, and that anxiety about the ‘many’ others was unnecessary. ‘The good part’ chosen by her, in receiving the Saviour, was:  undivided devotion to His word,  the feeding on the bread of life by faith, which cometh by hearing. In the highest sense, the good part is the  spiritual reception of Christ Himself,  in contrast with all bustling works, excited defences of the truth, and over zealousness for what is external in any and every form.
	 Which,  ‘of such a kind as.’
	 Shall not be taken away.  The possession of this ‘part’ is eternal. Both of these women loved the Saviour; Martha is not the type of a worldly woman, nor is the ‘one thing’ conversion. They represent two classes of Christians, which have always been found in the Church. But our Lord’s judgment in regard to the two classes is often reversed. The two mistakes are: (1) Slighting proper Christian work, under the thought of sitting at Jesus’ feet. But doing good is sitting at His feet. He rebukes only the  overdoing of what is good at the expense of what is better.  Mary, in her love, made no such mistake. For when the crisis drew near, it was of her that the Lord said: ‘She hath wrought a good work upon me’ (Matthew 26:10). (2) A more common mistake is that of supposing that those of quieter, more contemplative temper, are not doing their duty, are casting reproach on their Christian character, because they do not bustle through the many prevalent methods of church activity. This is Martha’s mistake (Luke 10:40). Bustling philanthropy should note that this story follows the parable of the good Samaritan.
	