 9 .]  For this reason (on account of your love and faith, &c. which Epaphras announced to us)  we also (  καί , on our side the Colossians having been the subject before; used too on account of the close correspondence of the words following with those used of the Colossians above)  from the day when we heard (  it ) (viz. as in Col 1:4 )  do not cease praying for you (‘precum mentionem generatim fecit Colossians 1:3 ; nunc exprimit, quid precetur,’ Beng.)  and (brings into prominence a special after a general, cf. Eph 6:18-19 )  beseeching that (on ἵνα after verbs of praying, see note, 1Co 14:13 )  ye may be filled with (accusative, as in reff.)  the thorough knowledge ( ἐπίγν . stronger than γνῶσις : see 1Co 13:12 )  of His (God’s, understood as the object of our prayer)  will (respecting your walk and conduct, as the context shews: not so much His purpose in Christ, as Chrys. ( διὰ τοῦ υἱοῦ προσάγεσθαι ἡμᾶς αὐτῷ , οὐκέτι δι ʼ ἀγγέλων ), (Œc., Thl., al.: cf. Ephesians 1:9 ; but of course not excluding the great source of that special will respecting you, His general will to be glorified in His Son)  in all wisdom (seeing that ἐν πάσῃ σοφίᾳ , in the similar clauses, Ephesians 1:8 ; Colossians 1:28 , ch. Colossians 3:16 , is absolute, I prefer taking it so here, and not, as Ellic., with πνευματικῇ )  and spiritual understanding (the instrument by which we are to be thus filled, the working of the Holy Spirit,  πνευματικῇ . On  σοφία and  σύνεσις , the general and particular, see note Ephesians 1:8 ; so Bengel here, “ σοφία est quiddam generalius: σύνεσις est sollertia quædam, ut quovis tempore aliquid succurrat, quod hic et nunc aptum est. σύνεσις est in intellectu: σοφία est in toto complexu facultatum animæ”)  to walk (aim of the foregoing imparting of wisdom: ‘so that ye may walk.’ ἐνταῦθα περὶ βίου κ . τῶν ἔργων φησίν · ἀεὶ γὰρ τῇ πίστει συζεύγνυσι τὴν πολιτείαν . Chrys.)  worthily of the Lord (Christ, see reff. and cf. ἀξίως τοῦ θεοῦ , 3Jn 1:6 )  unto (‘  with a view to ,’ subjective: or, ‘  so as to effect ,’ objective: the latter is preferable)  all (all manner of, all that your case admits)  well-pleasing (the word occurs in Theophr. Character. 5, which is on ἀρέσκεια as a subjective quality. Mey. quotes from Polyb. xxxi. 26. 5, πᾶν γένος ἀρεσκείας προσφερόμενος . The meaning is, ‘so that (see above) in every way ye may be well pleasing to God’):  in (exemplifying element of the καρπ .; see below)  every good work (not to be joined with the former clause, as (Œc., Thl., Erasm., al., to the destruction of the parallelism)  bearing fruit (the good works being the fruits: the περιπατῆσαι is now further specified, being subdivided into four departments, noted by the four participles καρποφοροῦντες , αὐξανόμενοι , δυναμούμενοι , and εὐχαριστοῦντες . On the construction, see Eph 3:18 note)  and increasing (see on Col 1:6 above)  by the knowledge of God (the instrument of the increase. This is by far the most difficult of the three readings (see var. readd.), the meaning of ἐν and εἰς being very obvious the former pointing out the element, the latter the proposed measure, of the increase. And hence, probably, the variations. It is the knowledge of God which is the real instrument of  enlargement , in soul and in life, of the believer not a γνῶσις which φυσιοῖ , but an ἐπίγνωσις which αὐξάνει ),