 23 .] (condition of this presentation being realized: put in the form of an assumption of their firmness in the hope and faith of the Gospel)  if, that is (i.e. ‘assuming that,’ see note on 2Co 5:3 ),  ye persist (more locally pointed than μένετε ; usually implying some terminus ad quem, or if not, perseverance to and rest in the end)  in the faith (ref.: also Xen. Hell. iii. 4. 6, Ἀγησίλαος δὲ … ἐπέμεινε (al. ἐνέμ .) ταῖς σπονδαῖς : more frequently with ἐπί , see Rost u. Palm sub voce)  grounded (see Ephesians 3:18 , note: and on the sense, Luk 6:48-49 )  and stedfast (1 Corinthians 15:58 , where the thought also of μὴ μετακιν . occurs),  and not (the second of two correlative clauses, if setting forth and conditioned by the first, assumes a kind of subjective character, and therefore if expressed by a negative particle, regularly takes μή , not οὐ . So Soph. Electr. 380, μέλλουσι γάρ σε … ἐνταῦθα πέμψαι , ἔνθα μήποθ ʼ ἡλίου φέγγος προσόψει . See more examples in Hartung, ii. 113 f.)  being moved away (better passive, than middle: cf. Xen. rep. Lac. xv. 1, τὰς δὲ ἄλλας πολιτείας εὕροι ἄν τις μετακεκινημένας κ . ἔτι νῦν μετακινουμένας : it is rather their  being stirred (objective) by the false teachers, than their suffering themselves (subjective) to be stirred, that is here in question)  from the hope (subjective, but grounded on the objective, see note on Eph 1:18 )  of (belonging to, see Eph. as above: the sense ‘  wrought by ’ (Mey., De W., Ellic.) is true in fact, but hardly expresses the construction)  the Gospel, which ye heard (“three considerations enforcing the μὴ  μετακινεῖσθαι : the μετακινεῖσθαι would be for the Colossians themselves inexcusable ( οὗ ἠκούσ .), inconsistent with the universality of the Gospel ( τοῦ κηρυχθ . &c.), and contrary to the personal relation of the Apostle to the Gospel.” Mey. This view is questioned by De W., but it certainly seems best to suit the context: and cf. Chrys. πάλιν αὐτοὺς φέρει μάρτυρας , εἶτα τὴν οἰκουμένην ἅπασαν , and see below),  which was preached ( οὐ λέγει τοῦ κηρυττομένου , ἀλλ ʼ ἤδη πιστευθέντος κ . κηρυχθέντος , Chr.)  in the whole creation (see Mark 16:15 . On the omission of the article before κτίσει see above, Colossians 1:15 , note)  which is under the heaven, of which I Paul became a minister ( κ . τοῦτο εἰς τὸ ἀξιόπιστον συντελεῖ . μέγα γὰρ αὐτοῦ ἦν τὸ ἀξίωμα λοιπὸν πανταχοῦ ᾀδομένου , κ . τῆς οἰκουμένης ὄντος διδασκάλου , Chrys.).