 21, 22 .]  And you, who were once alienated (subjective or objective? ‘  estranged ’ (in mind), or ‘  banished ’ (in fact)? In Ephesians 2:12 , it is decidedly objective, for such is the cast of the whole sentence there: so also in ref. Ps.: in Eph 4:18 it describes the objective result, with regard to the life of God, of the subjective ‘being darkened in the understanding.’ It is better then here to follow usage, and interpret objectively ‘alienated’ made aliens) (  from God , not ἀπὸ τῆς πολιτείας τοῦ Ἰσρ ., nor ἀπὸ τῆς ζωῆς τ . θεοῦ : for ‘God’ is the subject of the sentence),  and at enmity (active or passive? ‘  hating God ,’ or ‘hated by God?’ Mey. takes the latter, as necessary in Romans 5:10 (see note there). But here, where the διάνοια and ἔργα τὰ πονηρά are mentioned, there exists no such necessity: the objective state of enmity is grounded in its subjective causes; and the intelligent responsible being is contemplated in the whole sentence: cf. εἴ γε ἐπιμένετε κ . τ . λ . below. I take ἐχθ . therefore actively, ‘hostile to Him’)  in (dative of reference; not, as Mey. is obliged to take it on account of his passive ἐχθ . of the cause, ‘on account of,’ &c.: this is not the fact: our passive ἔχθρα subsists not on account of any subjective actuality in us, but on account of the pollution of our parent stock in Adam)  your understanding (intellectual part: see on Ephesians 2:3 ; Ephesians 4:18 . Erasm.’s rendering, in his Par., ‘enemies to reason,’ ‘etenim qui carni servit, repugnat rationi,’ is clearly wrong:  διάνοια is a ‘  vox media ,’ and cannot signify ‘reason:’ besides, there is nothing here about ‘carni inservire:’ that of Tert., Ambr., and Jer., ‘enemies to God’s will,’ rests on the reading αὐτοῦ after διαν ., see var. readd.: that of Beza, Mich., Storr, and Bähr, ‘  mente operibus malis intenta ,’ is allowable constructionally: the verb is followed by ἐν , cf. Psalms 72:8 , διενοήθησαν ἐν πονηρίᾳ , Sir 6:37 ; Sir 39:1 , and consequently the article before ἐν would not be needed: but is impugned by the  τοῖς ἔρ .  τοῖς πονηροῖς , not only wicked works, but  the wicked works which ye did )  in your wicked works (sphere and element in which you lived, applying to both ἀπηλλ . and ἐχθ . τῇ διαν .),  now however (contrast to the preceding description, the participles forming a kind of πρότασις : so δέον αὐτοὺς τὴν φρόνησιν ἀσκεῖν μᾶλλον τῶν ἄλλων , οἱ δὲ χεῖρον πεπαίδευνται τῶν ἰδιωτῶν , Isocr. ἀντιδ . c. 26: χρεὼν γάρ μιν μὴ λέγειν τὸ ἐόν , λέγει δ ʼ ὦν , Herod. v. 50: Eur. Alcest. 487 (476). See more examples in Hartung, i. p. 186. It is probably this δέ which has given rise to the variety of readings: and if so, the rec. is most likely to have been original, at least accounting for it)  hath He (i.e. God, as before: the apparent difficulty of this may have likewise been an element in altering the reading)  reconciled in (of the  situation or  element of the reconciliation, cf. Colossians 1:24 , ἑν τῇ σαρκί μον , and 1Pe 2:24 )  the body of his (Christ’s)  flesh (why so particularized? ‘distinguitur ab ecclesia, quæ corpus Christi dicitur,’ Beng., but this is irrelevant here: no one could have imagined that to be the meaning: ‘corpus humanum quod nobiscum habet commune Filius Dei,’ Calv. (and so Grot., Calov.), of which the same may be said: as against the Docetæ, who maintained the unreality of the incarnation: so Beza, al.; but St. Paul no where in this Epistle maintains, as against any adversaries, the doctrine of its reality. I am persuaded that Mey. is right: ‘He found occasion enough to write of the reconciliation as he does here and Colossians 1:20 , in the angel-following of his readers, in which they ascribed reconciling mediatorship with God partly to higher spiritual beings, who were without a σῶμα τῆς σαρκός ʼ)  by means of His Death (that being the instrumental cause, without which the reconciliation would not have been effected)  to (aim and end, expressed without εἰς τό : as in Ephesians 1:4 , al. fr.)  present you (see Eph 5:27 and note: not, as a sacrifice)  holy and unblameable and irreproachable (‘erga Deum … respectu vestri … respectu proximi,’ Beng. But is this quite correct? do not  ἀμώμ  . and  ἀνεγκλ  . both refer to blame from without? rather with Meyer,  ἁγίους represents the positive,  ἀμώμ  . and  ἀνεγκλ  . the negative side of holiness. The question whether  sanctitas inhærens or  sanctitas imputata is here meant, is best answered by remembering the whole analogy of St. Paul’s teaching, in which it is clear that progressive sanctification is ever the end, as regards the Christian, of his justification by faith. Irrespective even of the strong testimony of the next verse, I should uphold here the reference to inherent holiness, the work of the Spirit, consequent indeed on entering into the righteousness of Christ by faith: ‘locus est observatione dignus, non conferri nobis gratuitam justitiam in Christo, quin Spiritu etiam regeneremur in obedientiam justitiæ: quemadmodum alibi ( 1Co 1:30 ) docet, Christum nobis factum esse justitiam et sanctificationem.’ Calvin)  before His (own, but the aspirate is not required: see above on Colossians 1:20 ; not, that of Christ, as Mey., reading ἀποκατηλλάγητε : in Ephesians 1:4 , a different matter is spoken of)  presence (at the day of Christ’s appearing):