 19 .] “Confirmatory of the above-said γίνεσθαι ἐν πᾶσιν αὐτ . πρωτεύοντα ‘of which there can be no doubt, since it pleased &c.’ ” Meyer.  for in Him God was pleased (on the use of εὐδοκέω for δοκέω by the later Greeks, see Fritzsche’s note, on Rom. vol. ii. pp. 369 72.
	The subject here is naturally understood to be God, as expressed in 1 Corinthians 1:21 ; Galatians 1:15 ; clearly not Christ, as Conyb., thereby inducing a manifest error in the subsequent clause, ‘by Himself He willed to reconcile all things to Himself,’ for it was not to Christ but to the Father that all things were reconciled by Him, cf. 2 Corinthians 5:19 . See a full discussion on the construction, and the subject to εὐδόκησεν , in Ellic.’s note. His conclusion, that πλήρωμα is that subject, I cannot accept)  that the whole fulness (of God, see ch. Colossians 2:9 ; Ephesians 3:19 , and on πλήρωμα , note, Ephesians 1:10 ; Ephesians 1:23 . We must bear in mind here, with Mey., that the meaning is not active, ‘id quod rem implet,’ but passive, ‘id quo res impletur:’ all that fulness of grace which is the complement of the divine character, and which dwells permanently in Christ: ‘cumulatissima omnium divinarum rerum copia,’ Beza, as in John 1:16 . The various other interpretations have been, “the essential fulness of the Godhead;” so Œc., al.; which is manifestly not in question here, but is not to be set aside, as Eadie, by saying that ‘the divine essence dwelt in Christ unchangeably and not by the Father’s consent or purpose: it is His in His own right, and not by paternal pleasure:’ for all that is His own right, is His Father’s pleasure, and is ever referred to that pleasure by Himself; “the fulness of the whole universe;” so Conyb., and Castellio in Beza. This latter answers well: “Quorsum mentio universitatis rerum? Nam res ipsa clamat Apostolum de sola ecclesia hic agere, ut etiam 1 Corinthians 15:18 (?); Ephesians 1:10 ; Ephesians 4:6 ; Ephesians 4:20 (?):” ‘the Church itself,’ as Severianus in Cramer’s Catena, τουτέστιν τὴν ἐκκλησίαν τὴν πεπληρωμένην αὐτοῦ ἐν τῷ χριστῷ , and Thdrt., πλήρ . τὴν ἐκκλησίαν ἐν τῇ πρὸς Ἐφεσίους ἐκάλεσεν , ὡς τῶν θείων χαρισμάτων πεπληρωμένην , ταύτην ἔφη εὐδοκῆσαι τὸν θεὸν ἐν τῷ χριστῷ κατοικῆσαι , τουτέστιν αὐτῷ συνῆφθαι , and similarly B.-Crus., al., and Schleierm., understanding the fulness of the Gentiles and the whole of Israel, as Romans 11:12 ; Romans 11:25-26 . But this has no support, either in the absolute usage of πλήρωμα , or in the context here. See others in De W.)  should dwell, and (‘hæc inhabitatio est fundamentum reconciliationis,’ Beng.)  by Him (as the instrument, in Redemption as in Creation, see above Col 1:16 end)  to reconcile again (see note on Eph 2:16 )  all things (= the universe: not to be limited to ‘  all intelligent beings ,’ or ‘  all men ,’ or ‘  the whole Church :’ these πάντα are broken up below into terms which will admit of no such limitation. On the fact, see below)  to Him (viz. to God, Ephesians 2:16 ; not αὑτόν ; the writer has in his mind two Persons, both expressed by αὐτός , and to be understood from the context. The aspirate should never be placed over αυτ -, unless where there is a manifest necessity for such emphasis. But we are not (as Conyb., also Est., Grot., Olsh., De W.) to understand Christ to be meant: see above),  having made peace (the subject is not Christ (as in Ephesians 1:15 ; so Chrys. ( διὰ τοῦ ἰδίου σταυροῦ ), Thdrt., Œc., Luth., al.), but the Father: He is the subject in the whole sentence since εὐδόκησεν )  by means of the blood of (genitive possessive, belonging to, figuratively, as being shed on: ‘ideo pignus et pretium nostræ cum Deo pacificationis fuit sanguis Christi, quia in cruce fusus,’ Calv.)  His Cross, through Him (emphatic repetition, to bring αὐτός , the Person of Christ, into its place of prominence again, after the interruption occasioned by εἰρην … αὐτοῦ : not meaning, as Castal. (in Mey.), ‘per sanguinem ejus, hoc est, per eum:’ for the former and not the latter is explicative of the other),  whether ( τὰ πάντα consist of)  the things on the earth, or the things in the heavens . It has been a question, in what sense this reconciliation is predicated of the whole universe. Short of this meaning we cannot stop: we cannot hold with Erasm., al., that it is a reconciliation of the  various portions of creation to one another : ‘ut abolitis peccatis, quæ dirimebant concordiam et pacem cœlestium ac terrestrium, jam amicitia jungerentur omnia:’ for this is entirely precluded by the  εἴτε  …   εἴτε : nor, for the same reason, with Schleierm., understand that the elements to be reconciled are the  Jews and  Gentiles , who were at variance about earthly and heavenly things, and were to be set at one in reference to God ( εἰς αὐτόν ). The Apostle’s meaning clearly is, that by the blood of Christ’s Cross, reconciliation with God has passed on  all creation as a whole , including angelic as well as human beings, unreasoning and lifeless things, as well as organized and intelligent. Now this may be understood in the following ways: 1) creation may be strictly regarded in its entirety, and man’s offence viewed as having, by inducing impurity upon one portion of it, alienated the whole from God: and thus τὰ πάντα may be involved in our fall. Some support may seem to be derived for this by the undeniable fact, that  the whole of man’s world is included in these consequences (see Romans 8:19 f.). But on the other side, we never find the  angelic beings thus involved: nay, we are taught to regard them as our model in hallowing God’s name, realizing His kingdom, and doing His will ( Mat 6:9-10 ). And again the εἴτε … εἴτε would not suffer this: reconciliation is thus predicated of each portion  separately . We are thus driven, there being no question about τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , to enquire, how τὰ ἐν τοῖς οὐρρ . can be said to be reconciled by the blood of the Cross. And here again, 2) we may say that angelic, celestial creation was alienated from God because a portion of it fell from its purity: and, though there is no idea of the reconciliation extending  to that portion , yet the whole, as a whole, may need thus reconciling, by the final driving into punishment of the fallen, and thus setting the faithful in perfect and undoubted unity with God. But to this I answer,  a ) that such reconciliation (?) though it might be a result of the coming of the Lord Jesus, yet could not in any way be effected by the  blood of His Cross :  b ) that we have no reason to think that the fall of some angels involved the rest in its consequences, or that angelic being is evolved from any root, as ours is from Adam: nay, in both these particulars, the very contrary is revealed. We must then seek our solution in some meaning which will apply to angelic beings in their essential nature, not as regards the sin of some among them. And as thus applied, no reconciliation must be thought of which shall resemble  ours in its process for Christ took not upon Him the seed of angels, nor paid any propitiatory penalty in the root of their nature, as including it in Himself. But, forasmuch as He is their Head as well as ours, forasmuch as in Him they, as well as ourselves, live and move and have their being, it cannot be but that the great event in which He was glorified through suffering, should also bring them nearer to God, who subsist in Him in common with all creation. And at some such increase of blessedness does our Apostle seem to hint in Ephesians 3:10 . That such increase might be described as a  reconciliation , is manifest: we know from Job 15:15 , that “the heavens are not clean in His sight,” and ib. Job 4:18 , “His angels He charged with folly.” In fact, every such nearer approach to Him may without violence to words be so described, in comparison with that previous greater distance which now seems like alienation; and in this case even more properly, as one of the consequences of that great propitiation whose first and plainest effect was to reconcile to God, in the literal sense, the things upon earth, polluted and hostile in consequence of man’s sin. So that our interpretation may be thus summed up: all creation subsists in Christ: all creation therefore is affected by His act of propitiation: sinful creation is, in the strictest sense,  reconciled , from being at enmity: sinless creation, ever at a distance from his unapproachable purity, is lifted into nearer participation and higher glorification of Him, and is thus  reconciled , though not in the strictest, yet in a very intelligible and allowable sense. Meyer’s note, taking a different view, that the reconciliation is the great κρίσις at the παρουσία , is well worth reading: Eadie’s, agreeing in the main with the above result, is unfortunately, as so usual with him, overloaded with flowers of rhetoric, never more out of place than in treating lofty subjects of this kind. A good summary of ancient and modern opinions is given in De W.