 15 .] (The last verse has been a sort of introduction, through our own part in Him, to the Person of the Redeemer, which is now directly treated of, as against the teachers of error at Colossæ. He is described,  in His relation 1)  to God and His Creation ( Col 1:15-17 ): 2)  to the Church (18 20). This arrangement, which is Meyer’s, is far more exact than the triple division of Bähr, ‘Source of creation (15, 16): upholder of creation (17): relation to the new moral creation 18 20)’),  who is (  now in His glorified state essentially and permanently: therefore not to be understood, as De W. after Erasm., Calv., Beza, Grot., Beng., al., of the  historical Christ, God manifested in our flesh on earth: nor again with Olsh., Bleek on Hebrews 1:0 al., of the eternal Word: but of Christ’s present glorified state, in which He is exalted in our humanity, but exalted to that glory which He had with the Father before the world was. So that the following description applies to Christ’s whole Person in its essential glory, now however, by His assumption of humanity, necessarily otherwise conditioned than before that assumption. See for the whole, notes on Philippians 2:6 , and Hebrews 1:2 ff.; and Usteri, Paulinisches Lehrbegriff, ii. § 4, p. 286 ff.)  image (=  the image)  of the invisible God (the adjunct  τοῦ ἀοράτου is of the utmost weight to the understanding of the expression. The same fact being the foundation of the whole as in Philippians 2:6 ff., that the Son ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπῆρχεν , that side of the fact is brought out  here , which points to His being the visible manifestation of that in God which is invisible: the λόγος of the eternal silence, the ἀπαύγασμα of the δόξα which no creature can bear, the χαρακτήρ of that ὑπόστασις which is incommunicably God’s: in one word the ἐξηγητής of the Father whom none hath seen. So that while  ἀόρατος includes in it not only the  invisibility , but the incommunicability of God,  εἰκών also must not be restricted to Christ corporeally visible in the Incarnation, but understood of Him as the manifestation of God in His whole Person and work præ-existent and incarnate. It is obvious, that in this expression, the Apostle approaches very near to the Alexandrian doctrine of the  λόγος : how near, may be seen from the extracts from Philo in Usteri: e.g. de somniis, 41, vol. i. p. 656, καθάπερ τὴν ἀνθήλιον αὐγὴν ὡς ἥλιον οἱ μὴ δυνάμενοι τὸν ἥλιον αὐτὸν ἰδεῖν ὁρῶσι , κ . τὰς περὶ τὴν σελήνην ἀλλοιώσεις ὡς αὐτὴν ἐκείνην · οὕτως καὶ  τὴν τοῦ θεοῦ εἰκόνα  ,   τὸν ἄγγελον αὐτοῦ λόγον  ,   ὡς αὐτὸν κατανοοῦσι : and de Monarch. ii. 5, vol. ii. p. 225, λόγος δέ ἐστιν εἰκὼν θεοῦ , δι ʼ οὗ σύμπας ὁ κόσμος ἐδημιουργεῖτο . See other passages in Bleek on Hebrews 1:2 . He is, in fact, as St. John afterwards did, adopting the language of that lore as far as it represented divine truth, and rescuing it from being used in the service of error. (This last sentence might have prevented the misunderstanding of this part of my note by Ellic. in loc.: shewing, as it does, that the inspiration of St. Paul and the non-inspiration of Philo, are as fully recognized by me as by himself)),  the first-born of all creation (such, and not ‘  every creature ,’ is the meaning (so I still hold against Ellic. But see his whole note on this passage, as well worth study): nor can the strict usage of the article be alleged as an objection: cf. below, Colossians 1:23 , and Eph 2:21 note: the solution being, that  κτίσις , as our word ‘creation,’ may be used anarthrous, in its collective sense.
	Christ is ὁ πρωτότοκος , THE FIRST-BORN, Hebrews 1:6 . The idea was well known in the Alexandrian terminology: τοῦτον μὲν γάρ , viz. τὸν ἀσώματον ἐκεῖνον , θείας ἀδιαφοροῦντα εἰκόνος πρεσβύτατον υἱὸν ὁ τῶν ὄντων ἀνέτειλε πατήρ , ὃν ἑτέρωθι πρωτόγονον ὠνόμασε , καὶ ὁ γεννηθεὶς μέντοι μιμούμενος τὰς τοῦ πατρὸς ὁδούς , πρὸς παραδείγματα ἀρχέτυπα ἐκείνου βλέπων , ἐμόρφου εἴδη . Philo, de Confus. Ling. 14, vol. i. p. 414. That the word is used as one whose meaning and reference was already known to the readers, is shewn by its being predicated of Christ as compared with two classes so different, the  creatures , and the  dead (ver.18).
	The first and simplest meaning is that of  priority of birth . But this, if insisted on, in its limited temporal sense, must apply to our Lord’s birth from his  human mother , and could have reference only to those brothers and sisters who were born of her afterwards; a reference clearly excluded here. But a secondary and derived meaning of πρωτότοκος , as a designation of  dignity and precedence, implied by priority , cannot be denied. Cf. Ps. 88:27, κἀγὼ πρωτότοκον θήσομαι αὐτόν , ὑψηλὸν παρὰ τοῖς βασιλεῦσι τῆς γῆς : Exodus 4:22 , υἱὸς πρωτότοκός μου Ἰσραήλ : Romans 8:29 , and Hebrews 12:23 , ἐκκλησίᾳ πρωτοτόκων ἀπογεγραμμένων ἐν οὐρανοῖς , where see Bleek’s note. Similarly πρωτόγονος is used in Soph. Phil. 180, οὗτος πρωτογόνων ἴσως οἴκων οὐδενὸς ὕστερος . It would be obviously wrong here to limit the sense entirely to this reference, as the very expression below, αὐτὸς ἐστὶν πρὸ πάντων , shews, in which his priority is distinctly predicated. The safe method of interpretation therefore will be, to take into account the two ideas manifestly included in the word, and here distinctly referred to priority, and dignity, and to regard the technical term πρωτότοκος as used rather with reference to both these, than in strict construction where it stands. “First-born of every creature” will then imply, that Christ was not only first-born of His mother in the world, but first-begotten of His Father, before the worlds, and that He holds the rank, as compared with every created thing, of first-born in dignity: FOR, &c., Colossians 1:16 , where this assertion is justified. Cf. below on Colossians 1:18 .
	It may be well to notice other interpretations: 1) Meyer, after Tert., Chr., Thdrt., al., Bengel, al., would restrict the term to its temporal sense: ‘primogenitus, ut ante omnia genitus:’ on this, sec above. 2) The Arians maintained that Christ is thus Himself declared to be a κτίσις of God. It might have been enough to guard them from this, that as Chr. remarks, not πρωτόκτιστος , but πρωτότοκος is advisedly used by the Apostle. 3) The Socinians (also Grot., Wetst., Schleierm., al., after Theod. Mops.) holding the mistaken view of the necessity of the strict interpretation of πρωτότοκος maintain, that Christ must be  one of those among whom He is πρωτότοκος and that consequently κτίσις must be the new spiritual creation which it certainly cannot mean without a qualifying adjective to indicate such meaning and least of all here, where the physical κτίσις is so specifically broken up into its parts in the next verse.
	4) Worst of all is the rendering proposed by Isidore of Pelusium and adopted by Erasm. and Er.-Schmidt, ‘  first bringer forth ’ ( πρωτοτόκος , but used only of a  mother ). See on the whole, De W.: and a long note in Bleek on the Hebrews, vol. i. pp. 43 48):