 6 .]  which is present (emphatic: is now, as it was then: therefore not to be rendered as an imperfect, which stultifies the argument, cf. ἐστὶν καρποφ … ἀφ ʼ ἧς ἡμ . below. οὐ παρεγένετο , φησίν , κ . ἀπέστη · ἀλλ ʼ ἔμεινε , κ . ἐστὶν ἐκεῖ , Chrys.)  with you (pregnant construction, ‘came to and remains with:’ see reff., and Herod. vi. 24, παρῆν ἐς Ἀσίην , and al. frequently)  as it is also in all the world ( ἐπεὶ δὴ μάλιστα οἱ πολλοὶ ἐκ τοῦ κοινωνοὺς ἔχειν πολλοὺς τῶν δογμάτων στηρίζονται , διὰ τοῦτο ἐπήγαγεν ‘ καθ . κ . ἐν π . τ . κόσ .’ πανταχοῦ κρατεῖ · πανταχοῦ ἕστηκεν . Chrys. The expression  παντὶ τῷ κόσμ  . is no hyperbole, but the pragmatic repetition of the Lord’s parting command. Though not yet announced to all nations, it is παρὼν ἐν παντὶ τῷ κόσμῳ the whole world being the area in which it is proclaimed and working)  bearing fruit and increasing (the paragraph is broken and unbalanced. The filling up would be, to insert καί after κόσμῳ as in rec. Then it would be, ‘  which is present with you, as also in all the world, and καρπ . and αὐξ . (in all the world),  as also among you .’ But neglecting this, the Apostle goes forward, more logically indeed (for the reference in the rec. of κ . ἐστὶν καρπ . to the second member of the foregoing comparison, is harsh), but not so perspicuously, enlarging the παρόντος of his first member into ἐστὶν καρπ . κ . αὐξ . in the second, and then in these words, for fear he should be supposed to have predicated more of the whole world than of the Colossians, returning to καθ . κ . ἐν ὑμ . Again: on  καρπ  .   κ  .   αὐξ  . , cf. Thdrt.: καρποφορίαν τοῦ εὐαγγελίου κέκληκε τὴν ἐπαινουμένην πολιτείαν . αὔξησιν δὲ τῶν πιστευόντων τὸ πλῆθος . As Mey. observes, the figure is taken from a  tree , whose καρποφορία does not exclude its growth: with  corn , it is otherwise)  as also (it is καρπ . κ . αὐξ .)  among you, from the day when ye heard (  it ) (the Gospel: better thus, than with De W., to go on to  τὴν χάριν τοῦ θεοῦ for the object of both verbs: ἐπεγν . being not simultaneous with ἠκούσ ., and ἐν ἀληθ . not being thus satisfied: see below)  and knew (  ἐπ -, intensitive, but too delicately so to be expressed by a stronger word in our language)  the grace of God in truth (not adverbial, ‘truly,’ as Beza, Olsh., Mey., De W., al., which would make ἐν ἀλ . a mere qualification to ἐπέγνωτε : still less, as Storr, al., τὴν χάριν ἀληθῆ , or as Grot., ἐν τῷ λόγῳ τῆς ἀλ .: but generally said, ‘truth’ being the whole element, in which the χάρις was proclaimed and received: ‘ye knew it in truth,’ in its truth, and with true knowledge, which surely differs very appreciably from the adverbial sense (against Ellicott): οὐκ ἐν λόγῳ , φησίν , οὐδὲ ἐν ἀπάτῃ , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν αὐτοῖς τοῖς ἔργοις ),