 16 .]  because (explanatory of the πρωτ . πάσ . κτίσ . it must be so, seeing that nothing can so completely refute the idea that Christ himself is included in creation, as this verse)  in Him (as the conditional element, præ-existent and all-including: not ‘  by Him ,’ as E. V. after Chr. ( τὸ ἐν αὐτῷ , δι ʼ αὐτοῦ ἐστιν ) this is expressed afterwards, and is a different fact from the present one, though implied in it.
	The idea of the schoolmen, that in Christ was the ‘idea omnium rerum,’ adopted in the main by Schl., Neandor, and Olsh. (“the Son of God is the intelligible world, the κόσμος νοητός , i.e. creation in its primitive idea, Himself; He bears in Himself their reality,” Olsh.), is, as Meyer rightly observes, entirely unsupported by any views or expressions of our Apostle elsewhere: and is besides abundantly refuted by  ἐκτίσθη , the historic aorist, indicating the physical  act of Creation)  was created (in the act of creation: cf. on  ἔκτισται below)  the universe (thus only can we give the force of the Greek singular with the collective neuter plural, which it is important here to preserve, as ‘all things’ may be thought of individually, not collectively) (viz.)  things in the heavens and things on the earth (Wetst. urges this as shewing that the physical creation is not meant: ‘non dicit ὁ οὐρανὸς κ . ἡ γῆ ἐκτίσθη , sed τὰ ἐν &c., quo habitatores significantur qui reconciliantur’ (cf. the Socinian view of Col 1:15 above): the right answer to which is not with De W. to say that the Apostle is speaking of  living created things only, for manifestly the whole universe is here treated of, there being no reason why  living things should be in such a declaration distinguished from other things, but with Mey. to treat τὰ ἐν τ . οὐρρ . κ . τὰ ἐπ . τ . γῆς as an inexact designation of heaven and earth, and all that in them is, Revelation 10:6 . In 1 Chronicles 29:11 , the meaning is obviously this, σὺ πάντων τῶν ἐν τῷ οὐρ . κ . ἐπὶ τ . γῆς δεσπόζεις ),  things visible and things invisible (which divide between them the universe: Mey. quotes from Plato, Phæd. p. 79 A, θῶμεν οὖν , εἰ βούλει ἔφη , δύο εἴδη τῶν ὄντων , τὸ μὲν ὁρατόν , τὸ δὲ ἀειδές . The ἀόρατα are the spirit-world (not, οἷον ψυχή , Chr.: this, being incorporated, would fall under the ὁρατά , for the present purpose), which he now breaks up by εἴτε … εἴτε … εἴτε ),  whether (these latter be)  thrones, whether lordships, whether governments, whether authorities (on εἴτε , … often repeated, see reff.: and Plato, Rep. p. 493 D, 612 A, Soph. El. 595 f. (Mey.)
	These distinctive classes of the heavenly powers occur in a more general sense in Ephesians 1:21 , where see note. For δυνάμεις there, we have θρόνοι here. It would be vain to attempt to assign to each of these their places in the celestial world. Perhaps, as De W., the Apostle chose the expressions as terms common to the doctrine of the Colossian false teachers and his own: but the occurrence of so very similar a catalogue in Ephesians 1:21 , where no such object could be in view, hardly looks as if such a design were before him. Mey. well remarks, “For Christian faith it remains fixed, and it is sufficient, that there is testimony borne to the existence of different degrees and categories in the world of spirits above; but all attempts more precisely to fix these degrees, beyond what is written in the N. T., belong to the fanciful domain of theosophy.” All sorts of such interpretations, by Teller and others, not worth recording, may be seen refuted in De W.):  the whole universe (see above on τὰ πάντα , Col 1:16 )  has been created (not now of the mere act, but of the resulting endurance of creation leading on to the συνέστηκεν below)  by Him (instrumental: He is the agent in creation the act was His, and the upholding is His: see John 1:3 , note)  and for Him (with a view to Him: He is the  end of creation, containing the reason in Himself why creation is at all, and why it is as it is. See my Sermons on Divine Love, Serm. I. II. The fancies and caprices of those who interpret  creation here  ethically , are recounted and refuted by Meyer):  and He Himself (emphatic, His own Person)  is (as in John 8:58 , of essential existence: ἦν might have been used, as in John 1:1 ; but as Mey. well observes, the Apostle keeps the past tenses for the explanatory clauses referring to past facts, Colossians 1:16 ; Col 1:19 )  before all things (in  time ; bringing out one side of the πρωτότοκος above: not in  rank , as the Socinians: of which latter James 5:12 , 1 Peter 4:8 , are no justifications, for if πρὸ - πάντων be taken as there, we must render, and He, above all, exists,’ ‘He especially exists,’ προπάντων being adverbial, and not to be resolved. For the temporal sense, see reff.)  all things (not ‘  omnes ,’ as Vulg.),  and in Him (as its conditional element of existence, see above on ἐν αὐτῷ Col 1:16 )  the universe subsists (  ‘keeps together,’ ‘is held together in its present state:’ οὐ μόνον αὐτὸς αὐτὰ ἐκ τοῦ μὴ ὄντος εἰς τὸ εἶναι παρήγαγεν , ἀλλά καὶ αὐτὸς αὐτὰ συγκρατεῖ νῦν , Chr. On the word, see reff.: and add Philo, quis rer. div. hæres. 12, vol. i. p. 481, ὁ ἔναιμος ὄγκος , ἐξ ἑαυτοῦ διαλυτὸς ὢν κ . νεκρός ,  συνέστηκε κ  . ζωπυρεῖται προνοίᾳ θεοῦ ).