 27 .]  to whom (‘quippe quibus,’ as Mey.: this verse setting forth, not the contents of the mystery before mentioned, but a separate particular, that these ἅγιοι are persons to whom God, &c.)  God willed (it is hardly justifiable to find in this word so much as Chrys. and others have done τὸ δὲ θέλειν αὐτοῦ , οὐκ ἄλογον . τοῦτο δε εἶπε χάριτος αὐτοὺς μᾶλλον ὑπευθύνους ποιῶν , ἢ ἀφιεὶς αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ κατορθώματι μέγα φρονεῖν and similarly Calv., Beza, and De W. Such an  inference from the expression is quite legitimate: but not such an  exposition . No prominence is given to the doctrine, but it is merely asserted in passing)  to make known (  γνωρίσαι is not an interpretation of  ἐφανερώθη , nor an addition to it, nor result of it, as has been supposed: see on the reference of the verse above) what (how full, how inexhaustible this meaning of  τί , necessarily follows from its being joined with a noun of quantity like  πλοῦτος )  is the richness of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles ( σεμνῶς εἶπε κ . ὄγκον ἐπέθηκεν ἀπὸ πολλῆς διαθέσεως , ἐπιτάσεις ζητῶν ἐπιτάσεων . Chrys. Beware therefore of all attempts to weaken down the sense by resolving the substantives into adjectives by hendiadys. This the E. V. has here avoided: why not always? Next, as to the meaning of these substantives. All turns on  τῆς δόξης . Is this the (subjective) glory of the elevated human character, brought in by the Gospel (so Chrys., Thdrt. (Calv.?)): or is it the glory of God, manifested (objective) by His grace in this mystery, revealing His Person to the Gentiles? Neither of these seems to satisfy the conditions of the sentence, in which  τῆς δόξης reappears below with  ἡ ἐλπίς prefixed. On this account, we must understand it of the glory  of which the Gentiles are to become partakers by the revelation of this mystery: i.e. the glory which is begun here, and completed at the Lord’s coming, see Romans 8:17-18 . And it is the glory of, belonging to, this mystery, because the mystery contains and reveals it as a portion of its contents. The richness of this glory is unfolded and made known by God’s Spirit as the Gospel is received ἐν τ . ἔθν ., as the most wonderful display of it: the Gentiles having been sunk so low in moral and spiritual degradation. See Chr. and Calv. in Mey.),  which (mystery: this is more in analogy with St. Paul’s own method of speaking than to understand  ὅ of  τὸ πλοῦτος : cf. τὸ ἀνεξιχνίαστον πλοῦτος τοῦ χριστοῦ , Ephesians 3:8 , and τὸ τῆς εὐσεβείας μυστήριον , ὃς ἐφανερώθη ἐν σαρκὶ κ . τ . λ . 1 Timothy 3:16 . Besides which ( τοῦ μυστηρ . τούτου ) ( ἐν τοῖς ἕθνεσιν ) is strictly parallel with, being explained by, ( χριστὸς ) ( ἐν ὑμῖν )) is (consists in)  Christ (Himself: not to be weakened away into ἡ τοῦ χρ . γνῶσις (Thl.), ‘doctrina Christi’ (Grot.): cf. Galatians 2:20 ; Ephesians 3:17 ; 1 Timothy 3:16 , al.)  among you (not to be confined to the rendering, ‘in you,’ individually, though this is the  way in which Christ is among you: ἐν ὑμῖν here is parallel with ἐν τοῖς ἔθνεσιν above: before the Gospel came they were χωρὶς χριστοῦ , Eph 2:12 ),  the HOPE (emphatic; explains how Christ among them was to acquaint them τί τὸ πλοῦτος &c., viz. by being Himself the HOPE of that glory)  of the glory (not abstract, ‘of glory:’ τῆς δόξης is, the glory which has just been mentioned).