 18 20 .]  Relation of Christ to the Church (see above on Col 1:15 ):  And He (emphatic; not any angels nor created beings: the whole following passage has a controversial bearing on the errors of the Colossian teachers)  is the Head of the body the church (not ‘the body  of the church:’ the genitive is much more naturally taken as one of apposition, inasmuch as in St. Paul, it is the church which  is , not which possesses, the body, see reff.):  who (q.d. ‘in that He is:’ the relative has an argumentative force: see Matthiæ, Gr. § 477: in which case it is more commonly found with a particle, ὃς μέν , or ὅς γε )  is the beginning (of the Church of the First-born, being Himself πρωτότ . ἐκ τ . νεκρ .: cf. ἀπαρχὴ χριστός , 1 Corinthians 15:23 , and reff., especially the last. But the word evidently has, standing as it does here alone, a wider and more glorious reference than that of mere temporal precedence: cf. ref. Rev. and note: He is the Beginning, in that in Him is begun and conditioned the Church, Col 1:19-20 ),  the First-born from (among)  the dead (i.e. the first who  arose from among the dead: but the term πρωτότοκος (see above) being predicated of Christ in both references, he uses it here, regarding the resurrection as a kind of birth. On that which is implied in πρωτότ ., see above on Col 1:15 ), that HE (emphatic, again: see above)  may become (not, as Est., ‘ex quibus efficitur, Christum … tenere:’ but the  aim and  purpose of this his priority over creation and in resurrection)  in all things (reff. Beza, (and so Kypke) argues, that because the Apostle is speaking of the Church,  πᾶσιν must be masculine, allowing however that the neuter has some support from the τὰ πάντα which follows. In fact this decides the question: the τὰ πάντα there are a resumption of the πᾶσιν here. The ἐν then is not ‘inter,’ but of the reference: ‘in all matters:’ πανταχοῦ , as Chrys.: because the πάντα which follows applies not only to things concrete, but also to their combinations and attributes)  pre-eminent (  first in rank : the word is a transitional one, from priority in time to priority in dignity, and shews incontestably that the two ideas have been before the Apostle’s mind throughout. Add to reff., from Wetst., πρωτεύειν ἐν ἅπασι κράτιστον , Demosth. 1416. 25: and Plut. de puer. educ. p. 9 B, τοὺς παῖδας ἐν πᾶσι τάχιον πρωτεῦσαι ).