 24 .] Transition from the mention of himself to  his joy in his sufferings for the Church, and (25 29)  for the great object of his ministry : all with a view to enhance the glory, and establish the paramount claim of Christ.  I now (refers to  ἐγενόμην extending what he is about to say down to the present time emphatic, of  time , not transitional merely)  rejoice in (as the state  in which I am when I rejoice, and the element of my joy itself. Our own idiom recognizes the same compound reference)  my sufferings (no τοῖς follows:  τοῖς παθήμασιν = οἷς πάσχω )  on your behalf (=  ὑπὲρ τ  . σώμ . below; so that the preposition cannot here imply substitution, as most of the Roman Catholic Commentators (not Est., ‘  propter vestram gentium salutem: ’ nor Corn.-a-lap., ‘  pro evangelio inter vos divulgando ’), nor ‘  because of you ,’ but strictly ‘in commodum vestri,’ that you may be confirmed in the faith by (not my example merely, as Grot., Wolf, al.) the glorification of Christ in my sufferings),  and am filling up (the  ἀντί implies, not ‘  vicissim ,’ as Le Clerc, Beza, Bengel, al.; nor that ἀναπλ . is said of one who ‘ ὑστέρημα  a se relictum  ipse explet,’ and  ἀντ αναπλ . of one who ‘  alterius ὑστ .  de suo explet,’ as Winer (cited by Mey.), but the  compensation , brought about by the filling up being  proportionate to the defect : so in ref.: in Dio Cass. xliv. 48, ὅσον … ἐνέδει , τοῦτο ἐκ τῆς παρὰ τῶν ἄλλων συντελείας ἀνταναπληρωθῇ : in Diog. Laert. x. 48, καὶ γὰρ ῥεῦσις ἀπὸ τῆς τῶν σωμάτων ἐπιπολῆς συνεχὴς συμβαίνει , οὐκ ἐπίδηλος αἰσθήσει διὰ τὴν ἀνταναπλήρωσιν , ‘on account of the correspondent supply’) the deficiencies (plural, because the θλίψεις are thought of individually, not as a mass: those sufferings which are wanting)  of the tribulations of Christ in my flesh (belongs to ἀνταναπλ ., not (as Aug. on Psalms 86:3 , vol. iv. p. 1104, Storr, al.) to τῶν θλίψ . τοῦ χρ ., not only because there is no article ( τῶν ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου ), which would not be absolutely needed, but on account of the context: for if it were so, the clause τῶν θλίψ . τ . χρ . ἐν τῇ σ . μ . would contain in itself that which the whole clause asserts, and thus make it flat and tautological)  on behalf of (see on ὑπέρ above)  His body, which is the Church (the meaning being this: all the tribulations of Christ’s body are Christ’s tribulations. Whatever the whole Church has to suffer, even to the end, she suffers for her perfection in holiness and her completion in Him: and the tribulations of Christ will not be complete till the last pang shall have passed, and the last tear have been shed. Every suffering saint of God in every age and position is in fact filling up, in his place and degree, the θλίψεις τοῦ χριστοῦ , in his flesh, and on behalf of His body. Not a pang, not a tear is in vain. The Apostle, as standing out prominent among this suffering body, predicates this of himself κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν ; the ἀναπλήρωσις to which we all contribute, was on his part so considerable, as to deserve the name of ἀνταναπλήρωσις itself I am contributing θλίψεις which one after another fill up the ὑστερήματα . Notice that of the  παθήματα τοῦ χριστοῦ not a word is said (see however 2Co 1:5 ): the context does not concern, nor does θλίψεις express, those meritorious sufferings which He bore in His person once for all, the measure of which was for ever filled by the one sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction, on the cross: He is here regarded as suffering with His suffering people, bearing them in Himself, and being as in Isaiah 63:9 , “afflicted in all their affliction.” The above interpretation is in the main that of Chrys., Thl., Aug., Anselm, Calv., Beza, Luth., Melancth., Est., Corn.-a-lap., Grot., Calov., Olsh., Do W., Ellic., Conyb. The latter refers to Acts 9:4 , and thinks St. Paul remembered those words when he wrote this: and Vitringa (cit. in Wolf) says well, ‘Hæ sunt passiones Christi, quia Ecclesia ipsius est corpus, in quo ipse est, habitat, vivit, ergo et patitur.’ The other interpretations are 1) that the sufferings are such as Christ would have endured, had He remained longer on earth. So Phot. (in Eadie): ὅσα … ἔπαθεν ἂν κ . ὑπέστη , καθ ʼ ὃν τρόπον κ . πρὶν κηρύσσων κ . εὐαγγελιζόμενος τὴν βασιλείαν τῶν οὐρανῶν . 2) That the sufferings are not properly Christ’s, but only  of the same nature with His. Thus Thdrt., after stating Christ’s sufferings in behalf of the Church, says, καὶ ὁ θεῖος ἀπόστολος  ὡσαύτως ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς ὑπέστη τὰ ποικίλα παθήματα : and so Mey., Schl., Huther, and Winer. But evidently this does not exhaust the phrase here. To resemble, is not to fill up. 3) Storr, al., would render, ‘  afflictions for Christ’s sake ,’ which the words will not bear. 4) Some of the Roman Catholic expositors (Bellarmine, Cajetan, al.) maintain hence the doctrine of indulgences: so Corn.-a-lap. in addition: ‘Hinc sequitur non male Bellarminum, Salmeroneum, Franc. Suarez, ct alios Doctores Catholicos, cum tractant de Indulgentiis, hæc generalia Apostoli verba extendere ad thesaurum Ecclesiæ, ex quo ipsa dare solet indulgentias: hunc enim thesaurum voluit Deus constare meritis et satisfactionibus non tantum Christi, sed et Apostolorum omniumque Christi Sanctorum: uti definivit Clemens VI. extravagante (on this word, I find in Ducange, glossarium in voce, ‘  extravagantes in jure canonico dicuntur pontificum Romanorum constitutiones quæ)  extra corpus canonicum Gratiani, sive  extra Decretorum libros  vagantur ’)  unigenitus .’ But Estius, although he holds the doctrine to be catholic and apostolic, and ‘aliunde satis probata,’ yet confesses, ‘ex hoc Apostoli loco non videtur admodum solide statui posse. Non enim sermo iste, quo dicit Apostolus se pati pro ecclesia, necessario sic accipiendus est, quod pro redimendis peccatorum pœnis quas fideles debent, patiatur,  quod forte nonnihil haberet arrogantiæ : sed percommode sic accipitur, quomodo proxime dixerat “gaudeo in passionibus meis pro vobis,” ut nimirum utraque parte significet afflictiones et persecutiones pro salute fidelium, ipsiusque ecclesiæ) promovenda toleratas.’ The words in italics are at least an ingenuous confession. Consult on the whole matter, Meyer’s and Eadie’s notes):  of which (parallel with οὗ above: in service of which, on behoof of which)  I (emphatic, resuming ἐγὼ Παῦλος above)  became a minister, according to (so that my ministry is conducted in pursuance of, after the requirements and conditions of)  the stewardship (see on 1Co 9:17 ; 1 Corinthians 4:1 , al.: also Ephesians 1:10 ; Ephesians 3:2 ; not, ‘  dispensation ,’ as Chrys., Beza, Calv., Est., al.: the simpler meaning here seems best, especially when taken with δοθεῖσαν . ‘In domo Dei quæ est ecclesia, sum œconomus, ut dispensans toti familiæ, i.e. singulis fidelibus, bona et dona Dei domini mei,’ Corn.-a-lap.)  of God (of which God is the source and chief)  which was given (entrusted to)  me towards (with a view to; ref.)  you (among other Gentiles; but as so often, the particular reference of the occasion is brought out, and the general kept back),  to (object and aim of the stewardship: depends on τ οἰκ . τ . δοθ . μοι )  fulfil the word of God (exactly as in Romans 15:19 , to fulfil the duty of the stewardship εἰς ὑμᾶς , in doing all that this preaching of the word requires, viz. ‘ad omnes perducere,’ as Beng., see also below: a pregnant expression. The interpretations have been very various: ‘sermonem Dei vocat promissiones … quas Deus præstitit misso ad gentes Apostolo qui Christum eis patefaceret,’ Beza: ‘finem adscribit sui ministerii, ut efficax sit Dei sermo, quod fit dum obedienter accipitur,’ Calv.: ‘ut compleam prædicationem evang. quam cœpit Christus,’ Corn.-a-lap.: ‘ut plene ac perfecte annuntiem verbum Dei: vel, secundum alios (Vatabl. al.) ut ministerio meo impleam æternum Dei verbum, i.e. propositum et decretum de vocatione gentium ad fidem: vel denique, quod probabilius est, ut omnia loca impleam verbo Dei,’ Est.: ‘valet, supplere doctrinam divinam, nempe institutione quam Epaphras inchoavit, profliganda et conficienda,’ Fritzsche ad Rom., vol. iii. p. 275, where see much more on the passage: and other interpretations in Eadie, Meyer, and De W. All the above fail in not sufficiently taking into account the οἰκον . εἰς ὑμᾶς .
	Chrys. better, εἰς ὑμᾶς , φησί , πληρῶσαι τ . λόγ . τ . θεοῦ (but this connexion can hardly stand) περὶ τῶν ἐθνῶν λέγει . He goes on however to understand πληρῶσαι of perfecting  their faith , which misses the reference to fulfilling his own office)