 11 .] (corresponding to ἐν παντὶ κ . τ . λ . above)  in (not instrumental (Mey.), but betokening the  element : all these, ἐν πάση , ἐν παντὶ … are subjective, not objective. The instrument of this strength comes in below)  all (departments of every kind of)  strength being strengthened according to (in pursuance of, as might be expected from, reff.)  the power of His glory (beware of the hendiadys, ‘his glorious power,’ into which E. V. has fallen here: the attribute of His glorious majesty here brought out is its  κράτος (see Ephesians 1:19 , note), the  power which it has thus to strengthen. In the very similar expression Ephesians 3:16 , it was the πλοῦτος τῆς δόξης αὐτοῦ , the  exuberant abundance of the same, from which as an inexhaustible treasure our strength is to come)  to (so as to produce in you, so that ye may attain to)  all patient endurance (not only in tribulations, but generally in the life of the Spirit. Endurance is the result of the union of outward and inward strength)  and long-suffering (not only towards your enemies or persecutors, but also in the conflict with error, which is more in question in this Epistle. Chrys.’s distinction, μακροθυμεῖ τις πρὸς ἐκείνους οὓς δυνατὸν καὶ ἀμύνασθαι · ὑπομένει δὲ οὓς οὐ δύναται ἀμύνασθαι , though in the main correct, must not be closely pressed: see (Mey.) Heb 12:2-3 )  with joy (Mey. argues that these words must be joined, as Chr., (Œc., Thl., Est., al., with εὐχαριστ ., because in the other clauses the participles were preceded by these prepositional qualifications. But this can hardly be pressed, in the frequent disregard of such close parallelism by our Apostle, and seeing that εὐχαριστ . does in fact  take up again μετὰ χαρᾶς , which if attached to it is flat and unmeaning: and as De Wette says, by joining μετὰ χαρ . to εὐχ ., we lose the essential idea of joyful endurance, and the beautiful train of thought, that joyfulness in suffering expresses itself in thankfulness to God. And so Luth., B.-Crus., Olsh., Eadie, al.),  giving thanks to the Father (the connexion is not, as Chr., Thl., Calov., Calv., al., with οὐ παυόμεθα , the subject being  we , Paul and Timothy, but with the last words (see above), and the subjects are ‘  you ,’  τῷ πατρί , viz. of our Lord Jesus Christ: see reff.)  who made (historical by His gift of the Spirit through His Son)  us (Christians)  capable (not, ‘  worthy ,’ as Est. after the Vulg.)  for the share (participation)  of the inheritance of the saints in the light (it is much disputed with what  ἐν τῷ φωτί is to be joined. Mey., after Chr., Œc., Thl., &c., regards it as instrumental as the means of the ἱκανῶσαι which has been mentioned. But this seems unnatural, both in sense, and in the position of the words, in which it stands too far from ἱκ . to be its qualifying clause. It connects much more naturally with κλήρου , or perhaps better still with the whole, τὴν μερίδα τ . κλήρου τῶν ἁγ ., giving τὸ φῶς as the region in which the inheritance of the saints, and consequently our share in it, is situated. This seems supported by the usage of κλῆρος in Acts 8:21 , οὐκ ἔστι σοι μερὶς οὐδὲ κλῆρος ἐν τῷ λόγῳ τούτῳ cf. also κλῆρον ἐν τοῖς ἡγιασμένοις , ib. Acts 26:18 . And so Thdrt., al., De W., Eadie, al. Grot., al., would take  ἐν τῷ φωτί with  ἁγίων : against this the omission of the article is not decisive: but it does not seem so natural, as giving too great prominence to οἱ ἅγιοι ἐν τῷ φωτί as the ἐπώνυμοι of the inheritance, and not enough to the inheritance itself. The question as to whether he is speaking of a present inheritance, or the future glory of heaven, seems best answered by Chrys., δοκεῖ δέ μοι κ . περὶ τῶν παρόντων κ . περὶ τῶν μελλόντων ὁμοῦ λέγειν . The inheritance is begun here, and the meet-ness conferred, in gradual sanctification: but completed hereafter. We are ἐν τῷ φωτί here: cf. Rom 13:12-13 ; 1 Thessalonians 5:5 ; Eph 5:8 ; 1Pe 2:9 al.):