 28 .]  Whom (Christ)  we (myself and Timothy: but generally, of all who were associated with him in this true preaching: not, as Conyb., ‘I,’ which here quite destroys the force: the emphasis is on ἡμεῖς . WE preach Christ not circumcision, not angel worship, not asceticism, as the source of this hope)  proclaim (as being this ἐλπὶς τῆς δόξης ),  warning (see on Ephesians 6:4 , and below)  every man, and teaching every man (I am inclined with Mey. to take νουθετοῦντες and διδάσκοντες as corresponding in the main to the two great subjects of Christian preaching, repentance and faith: but not too closely or exclusively: we may in fact  include Thl.’s view,  νουθ  . μὲν ἐπὶ τῆς πράξεως ,  διδ . δὲ ἐπὶ δογμάτων , Steiger’s, that the former belongs more to early, the latter to more advanced instruction, and Huther’s, that the former affects the heart, while the latter informs the intellect (see Eadie’s note): for all these belong, the one class to repentance, the other to faith, in the widest sense)  in all wisdom (method of this teaching: not as  Est. (giving the other but preferring this), ‘in perfecta cognitione Dei et mysteriorum fidei, quæ est vera sapientia,’ and so Aug., Anselm, al.-latt.: this is usually in the accusative: but the Greek Commentators, τουτέστι , μετὰ πάσης σοφίας κ . συνέσεως ),  that we may present (see above Col 1:22 )  every man (notice the emphatic triple repetition of πάντα ἄνθρ ., shewing that the Apostle was jealous of every the least invasion, on the part of the false teachers, of those souls with whom he was put in charge. At the same time it carries a solemn individual appeal to those thus warned and taught: as Chrys., τί λέγεις ; πάντα ἄνθρωπον ; ναί , φησι , τοῦτο σπουδάζομεν · τί γάρ ; εἰ καὶ μὴ γένηται τοῦτο , ἔσπευδεν ὁ μακ . Π . τέλειον ποιῆσαι . There is hardly perhaps, as Mey., Bisp., Ellic., al., suppose, an allusion to the Judaizers, those who would restrict the Gospel)  perfect in Christ (element of this perfection, in union with and life in Him, comprehending both knowledge and practice. The presentation spoken of is clearly that at the great day of Christ’s appearing):