6.And are in readiness to avenge. This he adds, lest insolent men should presumptuously lift themselves up in opposition to his ministry, as if they could do so with impunity. Hence he says, that power had been given him — not merely for constraining voluntary disciples to subjection to Christ, but also for inflicting vengeance upon the rebellious, (759) and that his threats were not empty bugbears, (760) but had the execution quite in readiness — to use the customary expression. Now this vengeance is founded on Christ’s word — whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound also in heaven. (Matthew 18:18.) For although God does not thunder forth immediately on the minister’s pronouncing the sentence, yet the decision is ratified, (761) and will be accomplished in its own time. Let it, however, be always understood, that it is when the minister fights with spiritual armor. Some understand it as referring to bodily punishments, by means of which the Apostles inflicted vengeance upon contumacious and impious persons; as for example, Peter struck Ananias and Sapphira dead, and Paul struck Elymas the sorcerer blind. (Acts 5:1, and Acts 13:6.) But the other meaning suits better, for the Apostles did not make use of that power invariably or indiscriminately. Paul, however, speaks in general terms that he has vengeance ready at hand against all the disobedient. When your obedience shall be fulfilled How prudently he guards against alienating any by excessive severity! For as he had threatened to inflict punishment upon the rebellious, that he may not seem to provoke them, he declares that another duty had been enjoined upon him with regard to them — simply that of making them obedient to Christ. And, unquestionably, this is the proper intention of the gospel, as he teaches both in the commencement and in the close of the Epistle to the Romans. (Romans 1:5, and Romans 16:26.) Hence all Christian teachers ought carefully to observe this order, that they should first endeavor with gentleness to bring their hearers to obedience, so as to invite them kindly before proceeding to inflict punishment upon rebellion. (762) Hence, too, Christ (763) has given the commandment as to loosing before that of binding. (764) (759) “Des-rebelles et obstinez;” — “Upon the rebellious and obstinate.” (760) “Pour faire peur (comme on dit) aux petits enfans;” — “To frighten (as they say) little children.” (761) “Ferme et stable;” — “Firm and stable.” (762) “Auant qu’entrer a les menacer, et leur denoncer la peine de rebellion;” — “Before proceeding to threaten them, and denounce upon them the punishment of rebellion.” (763) “Et pour ceste cause Jesus Christ luy-mesme;” — “And for this reason Jesus Christ himself.” (764) “Calvin manifestly alludes here to John 20:23, in commenting on which he says, “As the embassy of salvation and of eternal life has been committed to the Apostles, so, on the other hand, they have been armed with vengeance against all the ungodly, who reject the salvation offered to them, as Paul teaches. (2 Corinthians 10:6.) But this is placed in last order, because it was proper that the true and real design of preaching the gospel should be first exhibited. That we are reconciled to God belongs to the nature of the gospel; that believers are adjudged to eternal life may be said to be accidentally connected with it. For this reason, Paul, in the passage which I lately quoted, when he threatens vengeance against unbelievers, immediately adds — after that your obedience shall have been fulfilled; (2 Corinthians 10:6) for he means, that it belongs peculiarly to the gospel to invite all to salvation, but that it is accidental to it that it brings destruction to any.” — Calvin on John, vol. 2, p. 273. — Ed. 