And [δε] . Better but, as a contrast is now introduced with the prosperous condition of the Church indicated at the close of the last chapter. Was multiplied [πληθυνοντων] . Lit., "when the disciples were multiplying;" the present participle indicating something in progress. A murmuring [γογγυσμος] . See on the kindred word murmerers, Jude 1:16. Grecians [ελληνιστων] . Rev., much better, Grecian Jews, with Hellenists in margin. "Grecians" might easily be understood of Greeks in general. The word Hellenists denotes Jews, not Greeks, but Jews who spoke Greek. The contact of Jews with Greeks was first effected by the conquests of Alexander. He settled eight thousand Jews in the Thebais, and the Jews formed a third of the population of his new city of Alexandria. From Egypt they gradually spread along the whole Mediterranean coast of Africa. They were removed by Seleucus Nicator from Babylonia, by thousands, to Antioch and Seleucia, and under the persecutions of Antiochus Epiphanes scattered themselves through Asia Minor, Greece, Macedonia, and the Aegean islands. The vast majority of them adopted the Greek language, and forgot the Aramaic dialect which had been their language since the Captivity. The word is used but twice in the New Testament - here and ch. 9 29 - and, in both cases, of Jews who had embraced Christianity, but who spoke Greek and used the Septuagint version of the Bible instead of the original Hebrew or the Chaldaic targum or paraphrase. The word %Ellhn, which is very common in the New Testament, is used in antithesis, either to "Barbarians" or to "Jews." In the former case it means all nations which spoke the Greek language (see Acts 18:17; Romans 1:14; 1 Corinthians 1:22, 1 Corinthians 1:23). In the latter it is equivalent to Gentiles (see Romans 1:16; Romans 2:9; 1 Corinthians 10:32; Galatians 2:3). Hence, in either case, it is wholly different from Hellenist. Hebrews. Hebrew is the proper antithesis to Hellenist. A man was 'Ioudaiov, a Jew, who traced his descent from Jacob, and conformed to the religion of his fathers. He might speak Greek and be a Hellenist. He was 'Ebraiov, a Hebrew, only as he spoke Hebrew and retained Hebrew customs. The distinction between Hebrew and Hellenist was a distinction within the Jewish nation, and not between it and other nations. Thus Paul calls himself a Hebrew of Hebrews; i e., a Hebrew and of Hebrew parents (Philippians 3:5; compare 2 Corinthians 11:22). Were neglected [παρεθεωρουντο] . Only here in New Testament. Lit., were overlooked. The imperfect denoting something habitual. Daily [καθημερινη] . Only here in New Testament. Ministration [διακονια] . Or service. See on minister, Matthew 20:26. The reference is to the distribution of provision.