 17. ] This parable is not a repetition of the previous one, but a stronger and more exact setting forth of the truth in hand. As is frequently our Lord’s practice in His parables, He advances from the immediate subject to something more spiritual and higher, and takes occasion from answering a cavil, to preach the sublimest truths. The garment was something  outward; this wine is  poured in , is something  inward , the spirit of the system. The former parable respected the outward freedom and simple truthfulness of the New Covenant; this regards its inner spirit, its pervading principle. And admirably does the parable describe the vanity of the attempt to keep the new wine in the ἀσκὸς παλαιός , the old ceremonial man, unrenewed in the spirit of his mind:  ῥήγνυνται οἱ ἀσκοί  : the new wine is something too living and strong for so weak a moral frame; it shatters the fair outside of ceremonial seeming; and  ὁ οἶνος ἐκχεῖται  , the spirit is lost, the man is neither a blameless Jew nor a faithful Christian; both are spoiled. And then the result: not merely the damaging, but the utter destruction of the vessel,  οἱ ἀσκοὶ ἀπολοῦνται  .
	According to some expositors, the  new patch and  new wine denote the  fasting; the  old garment and  old bottles , the  disciples . ὃ δὲ λέγει , τοιοῦτόν ἐστιν · οὔπω γεγόνασιν ἰσχυροὶ οἱ μαθηταί , ἀλλ ʼ ἔτι πολλῆς δἐονται συγκαταβάσεως · οὔπω διὰ τοῦ πνεύμτος ἀνεκαινίσθησαν . οὕτω δὲ διακειμένοις οὐ χρὴ βάρος ἐπιτιθέναι ἐπιταγμάτων . Chrysostom, Hom. in Matt. xxx. 4, p. 353. This view is stated and defended at some length by Neander, Leben Jesu, p. 346, note; but I own seems to me, as to De Wette, far-fetched. For how can fasting be called ἐπίβλημα ῥάκους ἀγνάφσυ , or how compared to new wine? And Neander himself, when he comes to explain the important addition in Luke (on which see Luke 5:39 , and note), is obliged to change the meaning, and understand the new wine of the spirit of the Gospel. It was and is the custom in the East to carry their wine on a journey in  leather bottles , generally of goats’ skin, sometimes of asses’ or camels’ skin. (Winer, Realwörterbuch, ‘Schlauch.’)