 10. ] We are told in Luke 5:29 , that Levi  made him a great feast in his house; and, similarly, Mark has ἐν τῇ οἰκ . αὐτοῦ . The narrative in our text is so closely identical with that in Mark, that it is impossible to suppose, with Greswell, that a different feast is intended. The arguments by which he supports his view are by no means weighty. From the words τῇ οἰκίᾳ , he infers that the house was not that of Matthew, but that in which our Lord usually dwelt, which he supposes to be intended in several other places. But surely the article might be used without any such significance, or designating any particular house, as would be very likely if Matthew himself is here the narrator. (A similar mistake has been made in supposing τὸ πλοῖον , as in Matthew 9:1 , and elsewhere, to mean some one particular ship; whereas it is generic: see note there.) Again, Greswell presses to verbal accuracy the terms used in the accounts (e.g. συνανέκειντο and ἐλθόντες συνανέκειντο ), and attempts to shew them to be inconsistent with one another. But surely the time is past for such dealing with the historic text of the Gospels; and, besides, he has overlooked a great inconsistency in his own explanation, viz., that of making in the second instance, according to him, Scribes and Pharisees present at the feast given by a Publican, and exclaiming against that which they themselves were doing. It was not  at , but  after the feast that the discourse in Mat 9:11-17 took place. And his whole inference, that δοχὴ μεγάλη must be the great meal in the day, and consequently in the evening, hangs on too slender a thread to need refutation. The real difficulty, insuperable to a Harmonist, is the connexion here of the raising of Jaeirus’s daughter with this feast: on which see below, Matthew 9:18 .
	 καὶ ἐγέν  …   καὶ ἰδ  . ] a Hebraism, see reff.; it occurs, but with the omission of ἰδού , in Mark’s account. The not very usual word, συνανέκειντο , is also common to the two. St. Mark, with his usual precision, adds ἦσαν γὰρ πολλοὶ καὶ ἠκολούθησαν αὐτῷ : a clause answering to ἐλθόντες in our text. See last note.