 9 17. ] THE CALLING OF MATTHEW: THE FEAST CONSEQUENT ON IT: ENQUIRY OF JOHN’S DISCIPLES RESPECTING FASTING: AND OUR LORD’S ANSWER. Mark 2:13-22 .Luke 5:27-39; Luke 5:27-39 . Our Lord was going out to the sea to teach, Mark 2:13 . All three Evangelists connect this calling with the preceding miracle, and the subsequent entertainment. The real difficulty of the narrative is the question as to the identity of Matthew in the text, and Levi in Mark and Luke. I shall state the arguments on both sides. (1) There can be no question that  the three narratives relate to the same event . They are identical almost verbatim; inserted between narratives indisputably relating the same occurrences. (2) The almost  general consent of all ages has supposed the  two persons the same .
	On the other hand, (3)  our Gospel makes not the slightest allusion to the name of Levi , either here, or in ch. Matthew 10:3 , where we find Μαθθαῖος ὁ τελώνης among the Apostles, clearly identified with the subject of this narrative: whereas the  other two Evangelists , having in this narrative spoken of Levi, in their enumerations of the Apostles (Mark 3:18 ; Luk 6:5 ),  mention Matthew without any note of identification  with the Levi called on this occasion . This is almost inexplicable, on the supposition of his having borne both names. (4)  Early tradition separates the two persons . Clement of Alexandria, (Stromata, iv. 9 (73), p. 595 [106] ,) quoting from Heracleon the Gnostic, ( ὁ τῆς Οὐαλεντίνου σχολῆς δοκιμώτατος κατά λέξιν ,) mentions Ματθαῖος , Φίλιππος , Θωμᾶς , Λευῒς καὶ ἄλλοι πολλοί , as eminent men who had not suffered martyrdom from a public confession of the faith. (5) Again, Origen, (against Celsus, book i. § 62, vol. i. p. 376,) when Celsus has called the Apostles τελώνας καὶ ναύτας , after acknowledging Μαθθαῖος ὁ τελώνης adds, ἔστω δὲ καὶ ὁ Λεβὴς τελώνης ἀκολουθήσας τῷ Ἰησοῦ . ἀλλ ʼ οὔτι γε τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ τῶν ἀποστόλων αὐτοῦ ἦν , εἰ μὴ κατά τινα τῶν ἀντιγράφων τοῦ κατὰ Μάρκον εὐαγγελίον . It is not quite clear from this, whether the copies of Mark substituted Levi’s (?) name for Matthew’s, or for some other: but most probably the latter. But Λεβής and Λευΐς are hardly more nearly allied than Λεβής and Λεββαῖος , with whom Levi has sometimes been supposed identical. Λεβὴν τὸν τελώνην may then have been the reading for Θαδδαῖον , Mark 3:18 , where we now find the reading Λεββαῖον in [107] lat-  a b ff 2  i . (6) It certainly would hence appear, as if there were in ancient times an idea that the two names belonged to distinct persons. But in the very passages where it is mentioned, a confusion is evident, which prevents us from drawing any certain conclusion able to withstand the general testimony to the contrary, arising from the prima facie view of the Gospel narrative. (7) It is probable enough that St. Matthew, in his own Gospel, would  mention only his apostolic name , seeing that St. Mark and St. Luke also give him this name,  when they speak of him as an Apostle . (8) It is remarkable, as an indication that St. Matthew’s frequently unprecise manner of narration did not proceed from want of information, that in this case, when he of all men must have been best informed, his own account is the least precise of the three. (9) With regard to the narrative itself in the text, we may observe, that this solemn and peculiar call seems (see ch. Matthew 4:19 ; Mat 4:22 )  hardly to belong to any but an Apostle; and that, as in the case of Peter, it here also  implies a previous acquaintance and discipleship .
	 [106] By these symbols are designated the portions of two ancient MSS., discernible (as also are fragments of Ulphilas’ gothic version) under the later writing of a volume known as the Codex Carolinus in the Ducal Library at Wolfenbüttel. P (GUELPHERBYTANUS A) contains fragments of each of the Gospels. Q (GUELPH. B) fragments of Luke and John. Both are probably of the  sixth century . They were edited by F. A. Knittel in 1762; and, more thoroughly, by Tischendorf in 1860 [1869], Monumenta Sacra, vol. iii. [vi.]
	 [107] The CODEX CANTABRIGIENSIS, or BEZÆ, so called because it was presented by Beza in 1581 to the University Library at Cambridge; where it is now exposed to view in a glass case. He procured it in 1562, from the monastery of St. Irenæus at Lyons. It is on parchment, and contains the Gospels and Acts, with a Latin version. Its lacunæ, which are many, will be perceived by the inner marginal letters in this edition. It once contained the Catholic Epistles: 3Jn 1:11-14 in Latin is all that now remains. It was edited with very accurate imitative types, at the expense of the University of Cambridge, by Dr. Kipling, in 1793. A new edition carefully revised and more generally accessible was published by Mr. Scrivener in 1864, and has been collated for this Edition. In the introduction some ten or twelve correctors are distinguished, whose readings are found in the notes at the end of the volume. The text of the Codex Bezæ is a very peculiar one, deviating more from the received readings and from the principal manuscript authorities than any other. It appears to have been written in France, and by a Latin transcriber ignorant of Greek, from many curious mistakes which occur in the text, and version attached. It is closely and singularly allied to the ancient Latin versions, so much so that some critics have supposed it to have been altered from the Latin: and certainly many of the phænomena of the MS. seem to bear out the idea. Where D differs in unimportant points from the other Greek MSS., the difference appears to be traceable to the influence of Latin forms and constructions. It has been observed, that in such cases it frequently agrees with the Latin codex  e (see the list further on). Its peculiarities are so great, that in many passages, while the sense remains for the most part unaltered, hardly three words together are the same as in the commonly received text. And that these variations often arise from capricious alteration, is evident from the way in which the Gospels, in parallel passages, have been more than commonly interpolated from one another in this MS. The concurrence with the ancient Latin versions seems to point to a very early state of the text; and it is impossible to set aside the value of D as an index to its history; but in critical weight it ranks the lowest of the leading MSS. Its age has been very variously given: the general opinion now is that it was written in the  latter end of the fifth or the sixth century .