Colossians 2:14.  Having blotted out,  i.e., erased or cancelled, since the tense is the same as ‘having forgiven.’ But it does not follow that this act is contemporaneous. This refers to the objective redeeming work, which must precede the appropriation of it by believers who are thus forgiven. If referred to the same time, the forgiveness must be regarded as taking place (ideally) at the death of Christ
	 The handwriting of ordinances,  etc. The word ‘handwriting’ had the technical sense of a bond, obligating the signer against whom it was held. The bond in this case was the law  ,  which was written in, took the form of ‘ordinances,’  i.e.,  specific commandments. These, expressed in the Mosaic law, constituted an obligation that  was  against us,  all men, Gentiles as well as Jews. To apply it to an unwritten law is to destroy the force of the figure, and to limit it to the ceremonial law is to weaken the thought of the entire passage. God’s law, thus definitely expressed in ordinances, was the uncancelled moral obligation that bound all men. This God cancelled by the redeeming work of Christ. Some explain: ‘the bond that was against us by its ordinances,’ but to this there are several obligations, while the view given above is sustained by Ephesians 2:15.
	 Which  was contrary  to us. This is an emphatic expansion of ‘against us;’ doubtless to oppose more strongly the legation of the false teachers. ‘It was hostile not merely in its direction and aspects, but practically and definitely’ (Ellicott).
	 And he hath taken it out of the way.  The change of construction justifies the insertion of ‘He,’ which will serve to indicate that Christ is now the subject. ‘Hath taken’ is literal and exact: the bond was removed and continues to be ‘out of the way.’
	 By nailing it to the crocs.  ‘By nailing’ indicates more plainly that this was the method by which the bond was forever removed. ‘It was the law rather than Christ, which was slain and done away with on the cross, because He bore the curse  of  the law, took away its condemnation. Men slew Christ, but the Lord slew the law on the cross; Galatians 2:13; Galatians 2:0 Pet. 2:24’ (Braune). The figure need not be pressed in its details.
	