32. And whosoever speaketh a word
	against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever
	speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him,
	neither in this world, neither in the world to come—In Mark the
	language is awfully strong, "hath never forgiveness, but is in
	danger of eternal damnation" ( :-)—or rather, according to what appears to be the preferable
	though very unusual reading, "in danger of eternal guilt"—a
	guilt which he will underlie for ever. Mark has the important
	addition (Mark 3:30), "Because
	they said, He hath an unclean spirit." (See on Mark 3:30- :). What, then, is this sin against the Holy Ghost—the
	unpardonable sin? One thing is clear: Its unpardonableness cannot
	arise from anything in the nature of sin itself; for that would be a
	naked contradiction to the emphatic declaration of Mark 3:30- :, that all manner of sin is pardonable. And what is this but
	the fundamental truth of the Gospel? (See Acts 13:38;
	Acts 13:39; Romans 3:22;
	Romans 3:24; 1 John 1:7,
	c.). Then, again when it is said (1 John 1:7- :), that to speak against or blaspheme the Son of man is
	pardonable, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost is not
	pardonable, it is not to be conceived that this arises from any
	greater sanctity in the one blessed Person than the other. These
	remarks so narrow the question that the true sense of our Lord's
	words seem to disclose themselves at once. It is a contrast between
	slandering "the Son of man" in His veiled condition and
	unfinished work—which might be done "ignorantly, in
	unbelief" (1 Timothy 1:13), and
	slandering the same blessed Person after the blaze of glory which the
	Holy Ghost was soon to throw around His claims, and in the full
	knowledge of all that. This would be to slander Him with eyes open,
	or to do it "presumptuously." To blaspheme Christ in the
	former condition—when even the apostles stumbled at many
	things—left them still open to conviction on fuller light: but to
	blaspheme Him in the latter condition would be to hate the light the
	clearer it became, and resolutely to shut it out which, of course,
	precludes salvation. (See on 1 Timothy 1:13- :). The Pharisees had not as yet done this; but in
	charging Jesus with being in league with hell they were displaying
	beforehand a malignant determination to shut their eyes to all
	evidence, and so, bordering upon, and in spirit
	committing, the unpardonable sin.