Matthew 8:28.  Into the country of the Gadarenes. Our version has: ‘Gergesenes;’ in Mark and Luke: ‘Gadarenes.’ The best established reading in Matthew: ‘Gadarenes;’ Mark: ‘Gerasenes;’ Luke: ‘Gergesenes;’ though there are variations in all three. We know who changed the word ‘Gadarenes’ into ‘Gergesenes’ in this Gospel (Origen), his reasons for doing it, and hence have a more correct copy of the verse than was current in the middle of the third century.
	 The variety in names has occasioned much discussion as to the exact locality. The common view is that the city referred to in Matthew 8:33-34, was  Gadara, the capital of Perea, situated southeast of the southern end of the lake. It was about seven miles from Tiberias, on a mountain near the river Hieromax; was probably inhabited by Gentiles, and is now called  Omkeis. This place was not too far away to be ‘the city’ referred to, since the events occurred before ‘the city’ was reached. The name ‘Gergesenes’ is then to be regarded as derived from the old ‘Girgashites,’ who lived there before the conquest of the Israelites. (Josephus says the name survived.) ‘Gerasenes’ was probably a corruption, or derived from the city  Gerasa, which was situated in the same district, though at a great distance. Another theory, now coming into favor, is, that a place, called  Gerasa or  Gergesa, existed near the lake shore. (See Thomson,  The Land and the Book, ii. pp. 34 - 37 .) The wood-cut represents the locality according to this view.
	 Two possessed with demons. Mark and Luke speak of but one, although the former gives the most detailed account. They probably mention the principal one, but do definitely affirm that there was but one. Matthew is always more particular as to numbers, as Mark is regarding looks and gestures. Lange: ‘Two demoniacs would not have associated unless one had been dependent on the other.’ All three Evangelists agree, that the meeting occurred just after landing, although the form of expressing that fact varies.
	 Coming from out of the tombs.  According to the other accounts, their abode, chosen ‘from a morbid craving for the terrible.’ One of the early fathers speaks of such caves near Gadara, and modem travellers confirm the statement. They were hewn out of the chalky rock, and afforded shelter. The ‘possessed’ probably came some distance toward the lake snore to meet Jesus. The whole narrative indicates a premonition of this coming of the Lord.
	 Exceeding fierce (comp. Mark 5:3-5). Mark tells of the unsuccessful efforts made to subdue them; Matthew, that unsubdued they were the terror of the country.
	