Ephesians 1:4.  Even as.   The blessing corresponds with the choice. ‘These spiritual blessings are conferred upon us, not merely because God chose us, but they are given in perfect harmony with His eternal purpose’ (Eadie).
	 He chose,  or more fully rendered, ‘chose out for Himself.’ The choosing was for His own glory; it is here conceived of as a single act, and was an act of selection, a choosing out of. No interpretation is grammatical which denies these three points.
	 Us.  The whole invisible Church of Christ, the body of Christ (comp. Ephesians 1:22-23), is undoubtedly meant. This Church is made up of individuals (‘us’) designed, indeed, to form an organic unity, but here regarded as chosen persons. Nothing is said as yet of ‘faith,’ or of any other subjective characteristic; the Apostle’s thought concerns  t he counsels of God. This election is not, however, an arbitrary or mechanical matter: it is in him,  i.e., in Christ (Ephesians 1:3). This is more than ‘on account of Him,’ or, ‘through Him,’ though both ideas are correct. It indicates that those who are chosen are chosen ‘in Christ,’ as the second Adam, the new head and representative of spiritual humanity. There could be no such antecedent choice, except in Him.
	 Before the foundation of the world.  The election preceded creation; comp. 2 Timothy 1:9. This presupposes the eternity of the Son of God, the object of the Father’s love (John 17:5; John 17:24), but not the real individual existence of believers before the creation of the world.
	 That we should be.  The Purposed result of the election is now stated.
	 Holy and without blame  (or, ‘blemish,’ as in chap. Ephesians 5:27). The former marks the  positive,  the latter the  negative  side of the moral result.
	 Before him,   i.e., before God. But in what sense? Some have referred it to God’s justifying verdict, but as an ultimate result is here spoken of, and as the Apostle could have plainly expressed that meaning in other ways, the reference to sanctification is preferable. ‘Before Him,’ then means either at the final judgment, or truly, really, in His all-searching eye. ‘If men are chosen to be holy, they cannot be chosen because they are holy.’ ‘Holiness is the only evidence of election’ (Hodge).
	 In love.  The connection of this phrase has occasioned much discussion. (1.) The E. V. joins it with ‘holy and without blame.’ In that case it explains that the sanctified state consists in love, our love. (2.) It might be joined with ‘chose,’ referring to God’s love; but the words are so separated as to make this connection improbable. (3.) It may be referred to God’s love, and joined with Ephesians 1:5. This is, on the whole, preferable; for a reference to God’s love seems more natural, and (2) is objectionable. Both (1) and (3) are grammatically allowable; if ‘before Him’ refers to justification, then (1) is logically incorrect.
	