Ephesians 1:18.  Having the eyes of your heart enlightened.  The correct reading substitutes ‘heart’ for ‘understanding.’ The construction of the original is peculiar, and has been variously explained. The only question which affects the English form is whether we have here a further  explanation  of the gift prayed for in Ephesians 1:17, or a  result  of it. The latter is decidedly preferable, and may be paraphrased thus: ‘so that you are enlightened as respects the eyes of your heart.’ The last phrase is unusual; the figure denoting the inward intelligence of that portion of our immaterial nature (the ‘soul’), of which the ‘heart’ is the imaginary seat (so Ellicott). Hence it includes the affections, which we designate as ‘heart,’ but does not exclude ‘mind.’ The result of the gift of the ‘spirit of wisdom and revelation’ is intellectual as well as moral.
	 That ye may know. ‘To the end that ye may know.’ This is the purpose of the enligntenment, not another petition. Three objects of knowledge are then specified.
	 What is the hope of his calling; comp. chap. Ephesians 4:14. ‘What’ is probably used without special reference to either quality or quantity. ‘Hope’ is not the thing hoped for, except as that is involved in the nature of the hope itself. This ‘hope’ results from God’s calling us, the call is the efficient cause of the hope. ‘Notice here, too, the three fundamental elements of subjective Christianity,  faith, love,  and  hope  (Ephesians 1:15; Ephesians 1:18); in  faith  and love the illumination through the Holy Ghost should ever bring more and more to our knowledge the glory of our  hope ’ (Meyer).
	 What the riches of the glory of his inheritance. This is the second object of knowledge. ‘And’ is omitted by the best authorities. This full phrase must not be diluted into ‘the riches of the glorious inheritance,’ or ‘the glorious riches of His inheritance.’ The ‘inheritance’ is not God’s inheriting the saints, but what they inherit from Him, namely, eternal life, heirship in the Christ; this God gives, hence ‘His.’ But this has ‘a glory’ peculiar to itself, the fulness of which the Apostle calls ‘riches.’ This ‘glory’ will be fully manifest hereafter, but is perceptible even here.
	 In the saints,  i.e., Christians as a whole, ‘His inheritance  in,  whose example, fulness, and embodying is  in the saints’  (Alford). Others prefer to explain: ‘what the riches,’ etc., ‘  is  among the saints.’ But this represents Paul as praying that they might know what great things are already among Christians.
	