James 2:23.  And the scripture was fulfilled. The same expression which is employed with reference to prophetical declarations; hence ‘the Scripture received its accomplishment.’ This great act of obedience on the part of Abraham was a proof of the fulfilment of the scriptural declaration made concerning him.
	 which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness; the scriptural statement. This remarkable declaration is also twice quoted by Paul (Romans 4:3; Galatians 3:6). The words are by both apostles quoted from the Septuagint. In the Hebrew the verb  imputed  is in the active, and not in the passive voice: ‘And he believed in the Lord, and He counted it to him for righteousness’ (Genesis 15:6). This occurred long before Abraham offered up Isaac, indeed before the birth of Isaac. Abraham was at that early period in a justified state before God; the declaration was made concerning him; and by his offering of Isaac the scriptural declaration received its fulfilment and realization. It is therefore evident that this act of obedience was not the cause of Abraham’s justification; but, because it proved that Abraham was possessed of a living faith, it fulfilled the words of Scripture.
	 and he was called the Friend of God; not adduced as a statement of Scripture which received its fulfilment, but an additional assertion of the favour in which Abraham stood with God. It is not directly stated that Abraham, in consequence of his offering up Isaac, received this honourable appellation, but the blessing which that name denotes is evidently presupposed: Abraham was the Beloved of God. The name is twice ascribed to Abraham in the Old Testament, according to our English version. Jehoshaphat, in his prayer, says: ‘Thou gavest this land to the seed of Abraham thy friend’ (2 Chronicles 20:7). And in the prophecies of Isaiah we read: ‘Thou Israel art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend’ (Isaiah 41:8). The term, however, is found neither in the Hebrew nor in the Septuagint, but is employed by Philo. And this is still the favourite description of Abraham, both by the Jews and by the Mahometans. By the Mahometans his proper name is often supplanted by the appellation El-Khalil-Allah, ‘the Friend of God.’
	