21. Be not overcome of evil—for
	then you are the conquered party. 
	but overcome evil with
	good—and then the victory is yours; you have subdued your enemy
	in the noblest sense. 
	Note, (1) The redeeming
	mercy of God in Christ is, in the souls of believers, the living
	spring of all holy obedience ( :-). (2) As redemption under the Gospel is not by irrational
	victims, as under the law, but "by the precious blood of Christ"
	(1 Peter 1:18; 1 Peter 1:19),
	and, consequently, is not ritual but real, so the sacrifices which
	believers are now called to offer are all "living sacrifices";
	and these—summed up in self-consecration to the service of God—are
	"holy and acceptable to God," making up together "our
	rational service" (Romans 12:1).
	(3) In this light, what are we to think of the so-called "unbloody
	sacrifice of the mass, continually offered to God as a propitiation
	for the sins both of the living and the dead," which the
	adherents of Rome's corrupt faith have been taught for ages to
	believe is the highest and holiest act of Christian worship—in
	direct opposition to the sublimely simple teaching which the
	Christians of Rome first received (Romans 12:1- :) —(4) Christians should not feel themselves at liberty to
	be conformed to the world, if only they avoid what is manifestly
	sinful; but rather, yielding themselves to the transforming power of
	the truth as it is in Jesus, they should strive to exhibit before the
	world an entire renovation of heart and life (Romans 12:1- :). (5) What God would have men to be, in all its beauty and
	grandeur, is for the first time really apprehended, when "written
	not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tables of
	stone, but on the fleshy tables of the heart," Romans 12:1- : (Romans 12:2). (6)
	Self-sufficiency and lust of power are peculiarly unlovely in the
	vessels of mercy, whose respective graces and gifts are all a divine
	trust for the benefit of the common body and of mankind at large
	(Romans 12:3; Romans 12:4).
	(7) As forgetfulness of this has been the source of innumerable and
	unspeakable evils in the Church of Christ, so the faithful exercise
	by every Christian of his own peculiar office and gifts, and the
	loving recognition of those of his brethren, as all of equal
	importance in their own place, would put a new face upon the visible
	Church, to the vast benefit and comfort of Christians themselves and
	to the admiration of the world around them (Romans 12:4- :). (8) What would the world be, if it were filled with
	Christians having but one object in life, high above every other—to
	"serve the Lord"—and throwing into this service
	"alacrity" in the discharge of all duties, and abiding
	"warmth of spirit" (Romans 12:4- :)! (9) Oh, how far is even the living Church from exhibiting
	the whole character and spirit, so beautifully portrayed in the
	latter verses of this chapter (Romans 12:4- :)! What need of a fresh baptism of the Spirit in order to
	this! And how "fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible
	as an army with banners," will the Church become, when at length
	instinct with this Spirit! The Lord hasten it in its time!