Verse 2 Corinthians 1:12. For our rejoicing is this — Ἡ καυχησις. Our boasting, exultation, subject of glorying.The testimony of our conscience — Μαρτυριον της συνειδησεως· That testimony or witness which conscience, under the light and influence of the Spirit of God, renders to the soul of its state, sincerity, safety, c.In simplicity — Ἁπλοτητι· from α, denoting unity or together, and πελω, to be or from α, negative, and πολυς, many; not compounded, having one end in view, having no sinister purpose, no by end to answer. Instead of απλοτητι, many MSS. and versions have αγιοτητι, holiness.In godly sincerity — Ειλικρινειᾳ Θεου· The sincerity of God: that is, such a sincerity as comes from his work in the soul. Ειλικρινεια, sincerity, and ειλικρινης, sincere, come from ειλη, the splendour, or bright shining of the sun; and here signifies such simplicity of intention, and purity of affection, as can stand the test of the light of God shining upon it, without the discovery being made of a single blemish or flaw.Not with fleshly wisdom — The cunning and duplicity of man, who is uninfluenced by the Spirit of God, and has his secular interest, ease, profit, pleasure, and worldly honour in view.But by the grace of God — Which alone can produce the simplicity and godly sincerity before mentioned, and inspire the wisdom that comes from above.We have had our conversation — Ανεστραφημεν· We have conducted ourselves. The word properly refers to the whole tenor of a man's life-all that he does says, and intends; and the object or end he has in view, and in reference to which he speaks, acts, and thinks; and is so used by the best Greek writers. The verb αναστρεφω is compounded of ανα, again, and στρεφω, to turn; a continual coming back again to the point from which he set out; a circulation; beginning, continuing, and ending every thing to the glory of God; setting out with Divine views, and still maintaining them; beginning in the Spirit, and ending in the Spirit; acting in reference to God, as the planets do in reference to the sun, deriving all their light, heat, and motion from him; and incessantly and regularly revolving round him. Thus acted Paul; thus acted the primitive Christians; and thus must every Christian act who expects to see God in his glory. The word conversation is not an unapt Latinism for the Greek term, as conversatio comes from con, together, and verto, I turn; and is used by the Latins in precisely the same sense as the other is by the Greeks, signifying the whole of a man's conduct, the tenor and practice of his life: and conversio astrorum, and conversiones caelestes, is by CICERO used for the course of the stars and heavenly bodies.--De Leg. c. 8: Caelum una conversione atque eadem, ipse circum se torquetur et vertitur.--CIC de Univers., c. 8: "The heaven itself is, with one and the same revolution, whirled about, and revolves round itself."In the world — Both among Jews and Gentiles have we always acted as seeing Him who is invisible.More abundantly to you - ward. — That is, We have given the fullest proof of this in our conduct towards you; YOU have witnessed the holy manner in which we have always acted; and GOD is witness of the purity of the motives by which we have been actuated; and our conscience tells us that we have lived in uprightness before him.