 Opening and alleging  (διανοιγων κα παρατιθεμενος). Opening the Scriptures, Luke means, as made plain by the mission and message of Jesus, the same word (διανοιγω) used by him of the interpretation of the Scriptures by Jesus (Luke 24:32) and of the opening of the mind of the disciples also by Jesus (Luke 24:45) and of the opening of Lydia's heart by the Lord (Acts 16:14). One cannot refrain from saying that such exposition of the Scriptures as Jesus and Paul gave would lead to more opening of mind and heart. Paul was not only "expounding" the Scriptures, he was also "propounding" (the old meaning of "allege") his doctrine or setting forth alongside the Scriptures (παρα-τιθεμενος), quoting the Scripture to prove his contention which was made in much conflict (1 Thessalonians 2:2), probably in the midst of heated discussion by the opposing rabbis who were anything but convinced by Paul's powerful arguments, for the Cross was a stumbling-block to the Jews (1 Corinthians 1:23).That it behoved the Christ to suffer  (οτ τον Χριστον εδε παθειν). The second aorist active infinitive is the subject of εδε with τον Χριστον, the accusative of general reference. This is Paul's major premise in his argument from the Scriptures about the Messiah, the necessity of his sufferings according to the Scriptures, the very argument made by the Risen Jesus to the two on the way to Emmaus (Luke 24:25-27). The fifty-third chapter of Isaiah was a passage in point that the rabbis had overlooked. Peter made the same point in Acts 3:18 and Paul again in Acts 26:23. The minor premise is the resurrection of Jesus from the dead.To rise again from the dead  (αναστηνα εκ νεκρων). This second aorist active infinitive αναστηνα is also the subject of εδε. The actual resurrection of Jesus was also a necessity as Paul says he preached to them (1 Thessalonians 4:14) and argued always from Scripture (1 Corinthians 15:3-4) and from his own experience (Acts 9:22; Acts 22:7; Acts 26:8; Acts 26:14; 1 Corinthians 15:8).This Jesus is the Christ  (ουτος εστιν ο Χριστοσ, ο Ιησους). More precisely, "This is the Messiah, viz., Jesus whom I am proclaiming unto you." This is the conclusion of Paul's line of argument and it is logical and overwhelming. It is his method everywhere as in Damascus, in Antioch in Pisidia, here, in Corinth. He spoke as an eye-witness. 