 Inasmuch as  (καθοτ). According as (κατα, οτ). Old causal conjunction, but in N.T. only used in Luke's writings (Luke 1:7; Luke 19:9; Acts 2:45; Acts 4:35; Acts 17:31).Hath appointed a day  (εστησεν ημεραν) First aorist active indicative of ιστημ, to place, set. God did set the day in his counsel and he will fulfil it in his own time.Will judge  (μελλε κρινειν). Rather, is going to judge, μελλω and the present active infinitive of κρινω. Paul here quotes Psalms 9:8 where κρινε occurs.By the man whom he hath ordained  (εν ανδρ ω ωρισεν). Here he adds to the Psalm the place and function of Jesus Christ, a passage in harmony with Christ's own words in Acts 17:25. Hω (whom) is attracted from the accusative, object of ωρισεν (first aorist active indicative of οριζω) to the case of the antecedent ανδρ. It has been said that Paul left the simple gospel in this address to the council of the Areopagus for philosophy. But did he? He skilfully caught their attention by reference to an altar to an Unknown God whom he interprets to be the Creator of all things and all men who overrules the whole world and who now commands repentance of all and has revealed his will about a day of reckoning when Jesus Christ will be Judge. He has preached the unity of God, the one and only God, has proclaimed repentance, a judgment day, Jesus as the Judge as shown by his Resurrection, great fundamental doctrines, and doubtless had much more to say when they interrupted his address. There is no room here for such a charge against Paul. He rose to a great occasion and made a masterful exposition of God's place and power in human history.Whereof he hath given assurance  (πιστιν παρασχων). Second aorist active participle of παρεχω, old verb to furnish, used regularly by Demosthenes for bringing forward evidence. Note this old use of πιστις as conviction or ground of confidence (Hebrews 11:1) like a note or title-deed, a conviction resting on solid basis of fact. All the other uses of πιστις grow out of this one from πειθω, to persuade.In that he hath raised him from the dead  (αναστησας αυτον εκ νεκρων). First aorist active participle of ανιστημ, causal participle, but literally, "having raised him from the dead." This Paul knew to be a fact because he himself had seen the Risen Christ. Paul has here come to the heart of his message and could now throw light on their misapprehension about "Jesus and the Resurrection" (verse Acts 17:18). Here Paul has given the proof of all his claims in the address that seemed new and strange to them. 