 Moved with jealousy  (ζηλωσαντες). Both our English words,zeal  andjealousy , are from the Greek ζηλος. In Acts 13:45 the Jews (rabbis) "were filled with jealousy" (επλησθησαν ζηλου). That is another way of saying the same thing as here. The success of Paul was entirely too great in both places to please the rabbis. So here is jealousy of Jewish preachers towards Christian preachers. It is always between men or women of the same profession or group. In 1 Thessalonians 2:3-10 Paul hints at some of the slanders spread against him by these rabbis (deceivers, using words of flattery as men-pleasers, after vain-glory, greed of gain, etc.).Took unto them  (προσλαβομενο). Second aorist middle (indirect, to themselves) participle of προσλαμβανω, old and common verb.Certain vile fellows of the rabble  (των αγοραιων ανδρας τινας πονηρους). The αγορα or market-place was the natural resort for those with nothing to do (Matthew 20:4) like the court-house square today or various parks in our cities where bench-warmers flock. Plato (Protagoras 347 C) calls these αγοραιο (common word, but in N.T. only here and Acts 19:38) idlers or good-for-nothing fellows. They are in every city and such "bums" are ready for any job. The church in Thessalonica caught some of these peripatetic idlers (2 Thessalonians 3:10) "doing nothing but doing about." So the Jewish preachers gather to themselves a choice collection of these market-loungers or loafers or wharf-rats. The Romans called them subrostrani (hangers round the rostrum or subbasilicari).Gathering a crowd  (οχλοποιησαντες). Literally, making or getting (ποιεω) a crowd (οχλος), a word not found elsewhere. Probably right in the αγορα itself where the rabbis could tell men their duties and pay them in advance. Instance Hyde Park in London with all the curious gatherings every day, Sunday afternoons in particular.Set the city on an uproar  (εθορυβουν). Imperfect active of θορυβεω, from θορυβος (tumult), old verb, but in the N.T. only here and Acts 20:10; Matthew 9:23; Mark 4:39. They kept up the din, this combination of rabbis and rabble.Assaulting the house of Jason  (επισταντες τη οικια Ιασονος). Second aorist (ingressive) active of εφιστημ, taking a stand against, rushing at, because he was Paul's host. He may have been a Gentile (Jason the name of an ancient king of Thessaly), but the Jews often used it for Joshua or Jesus (II Macc. 1:7).They sought  (εζητουν). Imperfect active. They burst into the house and searched up and down.Them  (αυτους). Paul and Silas. They were getting ready to have a lynching party. 