4. And declared—literally,
	"marked off," "defined," "determined,"
	that is, "shown," or "proved." 
	to be the Son
	of God—Observe how studiously the language changes here. He
	"was MADE
	[says the apostle] of the seed of David, according to the flesh"
	(Romans 1:3); but He was not
	made, He was only "declared [or proved] to BE
	the Son of God." So John 1:1;
	John 1:14, "In the beginning
	WAS the Word . . . and the
	Word was MADE
	flesh"; and Isaiah 9:6, "Unto
	us a Child is BORN,
	unto us a Son is GIVEN."
	Thus the Sonship of Christ is in no proper sense a born
	relationship to the Father, as some, otherwise sound divines,
	conceive of it. By His birth in the flesh, that Sonship, which was
	essential and uncreated, merely effloresced into palpable
	manifestation. (See on Isaiah 9:6- :; Isaiah 9:6- :). 
	with power—This may
	either be connected with "declared," and then the meaning
	will be "powerfully declared" [LUTHER,
	BEZA, BENGEL,
	FRITZSCHE, ALFORD,
	c.] or (as in our version, and as we think rightly) with "the
	Son of God," and then the sense is, "declared to be the Son
	of God" in possession of that "power" which belonged
	to Him as the only-begotten of the Father, no longer shrouded as in
	the days of His flesh, but "by His resurrection from the dead"
	gloriously displayed and henceforth to be for ever exerted in this
	nature of ours [Vulgate, CALVIN,
	HODGE, PHILIPPI,
	MEHRING, c.]. 
	according to the spirit of
	holiness—If "according to the flesh" means here, "in
	His human nature," this uncommon expression must mean "in
	His other nature," which we have seen to be that "of
	the Son of God"—an eternal, uncreated nature. This is here
	styled the "spirit," as an impalpable and immaterial
	nature (John 4:24), and "the
	spirit of holiness," probably in absolute contrast with
	that "likeness, of sinful flesh" which He assumed. One is
	apt to wonder that if this be the meaning, it was not expressed more
	simply. But if the apostle had said "He was declared to be the
	Son of God according to the Holy Spirit," the reader
	would have thought he meant "the Holy Ghost" and it
	seems to have been just to avoid this misapprehension that he used
	the rare expression, "the spirit of holiness."