32. Who knowing—from the voice
	of conscience, Romans 2:14; Romans 2:15
the judgment of God—the
	stern law of divine procedure. 
	that they which commit such
	things are worthy of death—here used in its widest known sense,
	as the uttermost of divine vengeance against sin: see Romans 2:15- :. 
	not only do the same—which
	they might do under the pressure of temptation and in the heat of
	passion. 
	but have pleasure in them
	that do them—deliberately set their seal to such actions by
	encouraging and applauding the doing of them in others. This is the
	climax of our apostle's charges against the heathen; and certainly,
	if the things are in themselves as black as possible, this settled
	and unblushing satisfaction at the practice of them, apart from all
	the blinding effects of present passion, must be regarded as the
	darkest feature of human depravity. 
	On this section, Note (1)
	"The wrath of God" against sin has all the dread reality of
	a "revelation from heaven" sounding in the consciences of
	men, in the self-inflicted miseries of the wicked, and in the
	vengeance which God's moral government, sooner or later, takes upon
	all who outrage it; so this "wrath of God" is not confined
	to high-handed crimes, or the grosser manifestations of human
	depravity, but is "revealed" against all violations of
	divine law of whatever nature—"against all ungodliness"
	as well as "unrighteousness of men," against all disregard
	of God in the conduct of life as well as against all deviations from
	moral rectitude; and therefore, since no child of Adam can plead
	guiltless either of "ungodliness" or of "unrighteousness,"
	to a greater or less extent, it follows that every human being is
	involved in the awful sweep of "the wrath of God" (Romans 2:15- :). The apostle places this terrible truth in the forefront of
	his argument on justification by faith, that upon the basis of
	universal condemnation he might rear the edifice of a free,
	world-wide salvation; nor can the Gospel be scripturally preached or
	embraced, save as the good news of salvation to those that are all
	equally "lost." (2) We must not magnify the supernatural
	revelation which God has been pleased to make of Himself, through
	Abraham's family to the human race, at the expense of that older,
	and, in itself, lustrous revelation which He has made to the whole
	family of man through the medium of their own nature and the creation
	around them. Without the latter, the former would have been
	impossible, and those who have not been favored with the former will
	be without excuse, if they are deaf to the voice and blind to the
	glory of the latter (Romans 1:19;
	Romans 1:20). (3) Wilful resistance
	of light has a retributive tendency to blunt the moral perceptions
	and weaken the capacity to apprehend and approve of truth and
	goodness; and thus is the soul prepared to surrender itself, to an
	indefinite extent, to error and sin (Romans 1:20- :, c.). (4) Pride of wisdom, as it is a convincing evidence of
	the want of it, so it makes the attainment of it impossible (Romans 1:20- : and compare Matthew 11:25;
	1 Corinthians 3:18-20). (5) As
	idolatry, even in its most plausible forms, is the fruit of unworthy
	views of the Godhead, so its natural effect is to vitiate and debase
	still further the religious conceptions; nor is there any depth of
	degradation too low and too revolting for men's ideas of the Godhead
	to sink to, if only their natural temperament and the circumstances
	they are placed in be favorable to their unrestrained development
	(Romans 1:23; Romans 1:25).
	The apostle had Greece and Egypt in his eye when he penned this
	description. But all the paganisms of the East at this day attest its
	accuracy, from the more elaborate idolatry of India and the simpler
	and more stupid idolatry of China down to the childish rudiments of
	nature worship prevalent among the savage tribes. Alas! Christendom
	itself furnishes a melancholy illustration of this truth; the
	constant use of material images in the Church of Rome and the
	materialistic and sensuous character of its entire service (to say
	nothing of the less offensive but more stupid service of the Greek
	Church,) debasing the religious ideas of millions of nominal
	Christians, and lowering the whole character and tone of Christianity
	as represented within their immense pale. (6) Moral corruption
	invariably follows religious debasement. The grossness of pagan
	idolatry is only equalled by the revolting character and frightful
	extent of the immoralities which it fostered and consecrated (Romans 1:24;
	Romans 1:26; Romans 1:27).
	And so strikingly is this to be seen in all its essential features in
	the East at this day, that (as HODGE
	says) the missionaries have frequently been accused by the natives of
	having forged the whole of the latter part of this chapter, as they
	could not believe that so accurate a description of themselves could
	have been written eighteen centuries ago. The kingdoms of Israel and
	Judah furnish a striking illustration of the inseparable connection
	between religion and morals. Israel corrupted and debased the worship
	of Jehovah, and the sins with which they were charged were mostly of
	the grosser kind—intemperance and sensuality: the people of Judah,
	remaining faithful to the pure worship, were for a long time charged
	mostly with formality and hypocrisy; and only as they fell into the
	idolatries of the heathen around them, did they sink into their
	vices. And may not a like distinction be observed between the two
	great divisions of Christendom, the Popish and the Protestant? To
	test this, we must not look to Popery, surrounded with, and more or
	less influenced by, the presence and power of Protestantism; nor to
	Protestantism under every sort of disadvantage, internal and
	external. But look at Romanism where it has unrestrained liberty to
	develop its true character, and see whether impurity does not there
	taint society to its core, pervading alike the highest and the lowest
	classes; and then look at Protestantism where it enjoys the same
	advantages, and see whether it be not marked by a comparatively high
	standard of social virtue. (7) To take pleasure in what is sinful and
	vicious for its own sake, and knowing it to be such, is the last and
	lowest stage of human recklessness (Romans 1:27- :). But (8) this knowledge can never be wholly extinguished in
	the breast of men. So long as reason remains to them, there is still
	a small voice in the worst of men, protesting, in the name of the
	Power that implanted it, "that they which do such things are
	worthy of death" (Romans 1:32).