4, 5. they sat—the twelve
	apostles, and the saints in general. 
	judgment was given unto
	there—(See on  :-). The
	office of judging was given to them. Though in one sense having to
	stand before the judgment-seat of Christ, yet in another sense they
	"do not come into judgment (Greek), but have already
	passed from death unto life." 
	souls—This term is made
	a plea for denying the literality of the first resurrection, as if
	the resurrection were the spiritual one of the souls of
	believers in this life; the life and reign being that of the soul
	raised in this life from the death of sin by vivifying faith. But
	"souls" expresses their disembodied state (compare  :-) as John saw them at first; "and they lived"
	implies their coming to life in the body again, so as to be
	visible, as the phrase, Revelation 20:5,
	"this is the first resurrection," proves; for as surely as
	"the rest of the dead lived not (again) until," c., refers
	to the bodily general resurrection, so must the first
	resurrection refer to the body. This also accords with Revelation 20:5- :, "They that are Christ's at His coming." Compare
	Psalms 49:11-15. From Psalms 49:11-19.49.15- :, I infer that "souls" is here used in the strict
	sense of spirits disembodied when first seen by John though
	doubtless "souls" is often used in general for persons,
	and even for dead bodies.
beheaded—literally,
	"smitten with an axe"; a Roman punishment, though
	crucifixion, casting to beasts, and burning, were the more common
	modes of execution. The guillotine in revolutionary France was a
	revival of the mode of capital punishment of pagan imperial Rome.
	Paul was beheaded, and no doubt shall share the first
	resurrection, in accordance with his prayer that he "might
	attain unto the resurrection from out of the rest of the dead"
	(Greek, "exanastasis"). The above facts may
	account for the specification of this particular kind of punishment. 
	for . . . for—Greek,
	"for the sake of"; on account of"; "because of."
	and which—Greek,
	"and the which." And prominent among this class (the
	beheaded), such as did not worship the beast. So Psalms 49:11-19.49.15- :, Greek, "and the which," or "and such
	as," particularizes prominently among the general class those
	that follow in the description [TREGELLES].
	The extent of the first resurrection is not spoken of here. In
	1 Corinthians 15:23; 1 Corinthians 15:51;
	1 Thessalonians 4:14 we find that all "in
	Christ" shall share in it. John himself was not "beheaded,"
	yet who doubts but that he shall share in the first resurrection? The
	martyrs are put first, because most like Jesus in their sufferings
	and death, therefore nearest Him in their life and reign; for Christ
	indirectly affirms there are relative degrees and places of honor in
	His kingdom, the highest being for those who drink his cup of
	suffering. Next shall be those who have not bowed to the world power,
	but have looked to the things unseen and eternal. 
	neither—"not yet."
	foreheads . . . hands—Greek,
	"forehead . . . hand." 
	reigned with Christ—over
	the earth.