5. But—B, Coptic, and
	ANDREAS read, "and."
	A and Vulgate omit it. 
	again—A, B, Vulgate,
	Coptic, and ANDREAS
	omit it. "Lived" is used for lived again, as in  :-. John saw them not only when restored to life, but when in
	the act of reviving [BENGEL].
	first resurrection—"the
	resurrection of the just." Earth is not yet transfigured, and
	cannot therefore be the meet locality for the transfigured Church;
	but from heaven the transfigured saints with Christ rule the earth,
	there being a much freer communion of the heavenly and earthly
	churches (a type of which state may be seen in the forty days of the
	risen Saviour during which He appeared to His disciples), and they
	know no higher joy than to lead their brethren on earth to the same
	salvation and glory as they share themselves. The millennial reign on
	earth does not rest on an isolated passage of the Apocalypse, but all
	Old Testament prophecy goes on the same view (compare Isaiah 4:3;
	Isaiah 11:9; Isaiah 35:8).
	Jesus, while opposing the carnal views of the kingdom of God
	prevalent among the Jews in His day, does not contradict, but
	confirms, the Old Testament view of a coming, earthly, Jewish kingdom
	of glory: beginning from within, and spreading itself now
	spiritually, the kingdom of God shall manifest itself outwardly at
	Christ's coming again. The papacy is a false anticipation of the
	kingdom during the Church-historical period. "When Christianity
	became a worldly power under Constantine, the hope of the future was
	weakened by the joy over present success" [BENGEL].
	Becoming a harlot, the Church ceased to be a bride going to meet her
	Bridegroom; thus millennial hopes disappeared. The rights which Rome
	as a harlot usurped, shall be exercised in holiness by the Bride.
	They are "kings" because they are "priests"
	(Revelation 20:6; Revelation 1:6;
	Revelation 5:10); their priesthood unto
	God and Christ (Revelation 7:15) is the
	ground of their kingship in relation to man. Men will be willing
	subjects of the transfigured priest-kings, in the day of the Lord's
	power. Their power is that of attraction, winning the heart, and not
	counteracted by devil or beast. Church and State shall then be
	co-extensive. Man created "to have dominion over earth" is
	to rejoice over his world with unmixed, holy joy. John tells
	us that, instead of the devil, the transfigured Church of Christ;
	Daniel, that instead of the heathen beast, the holy Israel, shall
	rule the world [AUBERLEN].