12. the dead—"the rest of
	the dead" who did not share the first resurrection, and those
	who died during the millennium. 
	small and great—B has
	"the small and the great." A, Vulgate,
	Syriac, and ANDREAS
	have "the great and the small." The wicked who had died
	from the time of Adam to Christ's second advent, and all the
	righteous and wicked who had died during and after the millennium,
	shall then have their eternal portion assigned to them. The godly who
	were transfigured and reigned with Christ during it, shall also be
	present, not indeed to have their portion assigned as if for the
	first time (for that shall have been fixed long before,  :-), but to have it confirmed for ever, and that God's
	righteousness may be vindicated in the case of both the saved and the
	lost, in the presence of an assembled universe. Compare "We
	must ALL appear," c.
	Romans 14:10 2 Corinthians 5:10.
	The saints having been first pronounced just themselves by Christ out
	of "the book of life," shall sit as assessors of the Judge.
	Compare Matthew 25:31; Matthew 25:32;
	Matthew 25:40, "these My
	brethren." God's omniscience will not allow the most
	insignificant to escape unobserved, and His omnipotence will cause
	the mightiest to obey the summons. The living are not
	specially mentioned: as these all shall probably first (before the
	destruction of the ungodly, Matthew 25:40- :) be transfigured, and caught up with the saints long
	previously transfigured; and though present for the confirmation of
	their justification by the Judge, shall not then first have their
	eternal state assigned to them, but shall sit as assessors with the
	Judge. 
	the books . . . opened—
	(Daniel 7:10). The books of God's
	remembrance, alike of the evil and the good (Psalms 56:8;
	Psalms 139:4; Malachi 3:16):
	conscience (Romans 2:15; Romans 2:16),
	the word of Christ (John 12:48),
	the law (Galatians 3:10), God's
	eternal counsel (Psalms 139:16). 
	book of life— (Revelation 3:5;
	Revelation 13:8; Revelation 21:27;
	Exodus 32:32; Exodus 32:33;
	Psalms 69:28; Daniel 12:1;
	Philippians 4:3). Besides the general
	book recording the works of all, there is a special book for
	believers in which their names are written, not for their works, but
	for the work of Christ for, and in, them. Therefore it
	is called, "the Lamb's book of life." Electing grace
	has singled them out from the general mass. 
	according to their works—We
	are justified by faith, but judged according to (not
	by) our works. For the general judgment is primarily designed
	for the final vindication of God's righteousness before the
	whole world, which in this checkered dispensation of good and evil,
	though really ruling the world, has been for the time less manifest.
	Faith is appreciable by God and the believer alone (Philippians 4:3- :). But works are appreciable by all. These, then, are
	made the evidential test to decide men's eternal state, thus showing
	that God's administration of judgment is altogether righteous.