3. shut him—A, B, Vulgate,
	Syriac, and ANDREAS
	omit "him." 
	set a seal upon him—Greek,
	"over him," that is, sealed up the door of the abyss over
	his head. A surer seal to keep him from getting out than his seal
	over Jesus in the tomb of Joseph, which was burst on the resurrection
	morn. Satan's binding at' this juncture is not arbitrary, but is the
	necessary consequence of the events ( :-); just as Satan's being cast out of heaven, where he had
	previously been the accuser of the brethren, was the legitimate
	judgment which passed on him through the death, resurrection, and
	ascension of Christ ( :-). Satan imagined that he had overcome Christ on Golgotha,
	and that his power was secure for ever, but the Lord in death
	overcame him, and by His ascension as our righteous Advocate cast out
	Satan, the accuser from heaven. Time was given on earth to make the
	beast and harlot powerful, and then to concentrate all his power in
	Antichrist. The Antichristian kingdom, his last effort, being utterly
	destroyed by Christ's mere appearing, his power on earth is at an
	end. He had thought to destroy God's people on earth by Antichristian
	persecutions (just as he had thought previously to destroy Christ);
	but the Church is not destroyed from the earth but is raised to rule
	over it, and Satan himself is shut up for a thousand years in the
	"abyss" (Greek for "bottomless pit"), the
	preparatory prison to the "lake of fire," his final doom.
	As before he ceased by Christ's ascension to be an accuser in heaven,
	so during the millennium he ceases to be the seducer and the
	persecutor on earth. As long as the devil rules in the darkness of
	the world, we live in an atmosphere impregnated with deadly elements.
	A mighty purification of the air will be effected by Christ's coming.
	Though sin will not be absolutely abolished—for men will still be
	in the flesh (Isaiah 65:20) —sin
	will no longer be a universal power, for the flesh is not any longer
	seduced by Satan. He will not be, as now, "the god and prince of
	the world"—nor will the world "lie in the wicked one"—the
	flesh will become ever more isolated and be overcome. Christ will
	reign with His transfigured saints over men in the flesh [AUBERLEN].
	This will be the manifestation of "the world to come,"
	which has been already set up invisibly in the saints, amidst "this
	world" (2 Corinthians 4:4; Hebrews 2:5;
	Hebrews 5:5). The Jewish Rabbis
	thought, as the world was created in six days and on the seventh
	God rested, so there would be six millenary periods, followed by a
	sabbatical millennium. Out of seven years every seventh is the year
	of remission, so out of the seven thousand years of the world the
	seventh millenary shall be the millenary of remission. A tradition in
	the house of Elias, A.D.
	200, states that the world is to endure six thousand years; two
	thousand before the law, two thousand under the law, and two thousand
	under Messiah. Compare Note, see on Hebrews 5:5- : and Hebrews 4:9, Margin;
	see on Revelation 20:1. PAPIAS,
	JUSTIN MARTYR,
	IRENÆUS, and CYPRIAN,
	among the earliest Fathers, all held the doctrine of a millennial
	kingdom on earth; not till millennial views degenerated into gross
	carnalism was this doctrine abandoned. 
	that he should deceive—so
	A. But B reads, "that he deceive" (Greek, "plana,"
	for "planeesee"). 
	and—so Coptic
	and ANDREAS. But A, B, and
	Vulgate omit "and."