32. He—rather, "He
	surely." (It is a pity to lose the emphatic particle of the
	original). 
	that spared not—"withheld
	not," "kept not back." This expressive phrase, as well
	as the whole thought, is suggested by  :-, where Jehovah's touching commendation of Abraham's conduct
	regarding his son Isaac seems designed to furnish something like a
	glimpse into the spirit of His own act in surrendering His own
	Son. "Take now (said the Lord to Abraham) thy son, thine
	only, whom thou lovest, and . . . offer him for a burnt
	offering" (Genesis 22:2); and
	only when Abraham had all but performed that loftiest act of
	self-sacrifice, the Lord interposed, saying, "Now I know that
	thou fearest God, seeing thou HAST
	NOT WITHHELD THY SON, THINE ONLY SON, from Me." In the
	light of this incident, then, and of this language, our apostle can
	mean to convey nothing less than this, that in "not sparing His
	own Son, but delivering Him up," or surrendering Him, God
	exercised, in His Paternal character, a mysterious act of
	Self-sacrifice, which, though involving none of the pain
	and none of the loss which are inseparable from the very idea
	of self-sacrifice on our part, was not less real, but, on the
	contrary, as far transcended any such acts of ours as His nature is
	above the creature's. But this is inconceivable if Christ be not
	God's "own (or proper) Son," partaker of His very nature,
	as really as Isaac was of his father Abraham's. In that sense,
	certainly, the Jews charged our Lord with making Himself "equal
	with God" (see on Genesis 22:2- :),
	which He in reply forthwith proceeded, not to disown, but to
	illustrate and confirm. Understand Christ's Sonship thus, and the
	language of Scripture regarding it is intelligible and harmonious;
	but take it to be an artificial relationship, ascribed to Him
	in virtue either of His miraculous birth, or His resurrection from
	the dead, or the grandeur of His works, or all of these together—and
	the passages which speak of it neither explain of themselves nor
	harmonize with each other. 
	delivered him up—not to
	death merely (as many take it), for that is too narrow an idea
	here, but "surrendered Him" in the most comprehensive
	sense; compare John 3:16, "God
	so loved the world that He GAVE
	His only-begotten Son." 
	for us all—that is, for
	all believers alike; as nearly every good interpreter admits must be
	the meaning here. 
	how shall he not—how
	can we conceive that He should not. 
	with him also—rather,
	"also with Him." (The word "also" is often so
	placed in our version as to obscure the sense; see on John 3:16- :). 
	freely give us all
	things?—all other gifts being not only immeasurably less
	than this Gift of gifts, but virtually included in it.