27. And—rather, "But,"
	inarticulate though these groanings be. 
	he that searcheth the hearts
	knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he—the Spirit 
	maketh intercession for the
	saints according to the will of God—As the Searcher of hearts,
	He watches the surging emotions of them in prayer, and knows
	perfectly what the Spirit means by the groanings which He draws forth
	within us, because that blessed Intercessor pleads by them only for
	what God Himself designs to bestow. 
	Note, (1) Are believers
	"led by the Spirit of God" ( :-)? How careful then should they be not to "grieve the
	Holy Spirit of God" ( :-)! Compare Psalms 32:8;
	Psalms 32:9: "I will . . .
	guide thee with Mine eye. Be not (then) as the
	horse, or as the mule," c. (2) "The spirit of bondage,"
	to which many Protestants are "all their lifetime subject,"
	and the "doubtsome faith" which the Popish Church
	systematically inculcates, are both rebuked here, being in direct and
	painful contrast to that "spirit of adoption," and that
	witness of the Spirit, along with our own spirit, to the fact of our
	sonship, which it is here said the children of God, as such, enjoy
	(Romans 8:15 Romans 8:16).
	(3) As suffering with Christ is the ordained preparation for
	participating in this glory, so the insignificance of the one as
	compared with the other cannot fail to lighten the sense of it,
	however bitter and protracted (Romans 8:17;
	Romans 8:18). (4) It cannot but
	swell the heart of every intelligent Christian to think that if
	external nature has been mysteriously affected for evil by the fall
	of man, it only awaits his completed recovery, at the resurrection,
	to experience a corresponding emancipation from its blighted
	condition into undecaying life and unfading beauty (Romans 8:18- :). (5) It is not when believers, through sinful "quenching
	of the Spirit," have the fewest and faintest glimpses of heaven,
	that they sigh most fervently to be there; but, on the contrary, when
	through the unobstructed working of the Spirit in their hearts, "the
	first-fruits" of the glory to be revealed are most largely and
	frequently tasted, then, and just for that reason, is it that they
	"groan within themselves" for full redemption (Romans 8:18- :). For thus they reason: If such be the drops, what will the
	ocean be? If thus "to see through a glass darkly" be so
	very sweet, what will it be to "see face to face?" If when
	"my Beloved stands behind our wall, looking forth at the
	windows, showing Himself through the lattice" (Romans 8:18- :) —that thin veil which parts the seen from the unseen—if
	He is even thus to me "Fairer than the children of men,"
	what shall He be when He stands confessed before my undazzled vision,
	the Only-begotten of the Father in my own nature, and I shall be like
	Him, for I shall see Him as He is? (6) "The patience of hope"
	(1 Thessalonians 1:3) is the fitting
	attitude for those who with the joyful consciousness that they are
	already "saved" (2 Timothy 1:9;
	Titus 3:5), have yet the painful
	consciousness that they are saved but in part: or, "that
	being justified by His grace, they are made (in the present state)
	heirs according to the hope (only) of eternal life," Titus 3:5- : (Romans 8:24; Romans 8:25).
	(7) As prayer is the breath of the spiritual life, and the believer's
	only effectual relief under the "infirmity" which attaches
	to his whole condition here below, how cheering is it to be assured
	that the blessed Spirit, cognizant of it all, comes in aid of it all;
	and in particular, that when believers, unable to articulate their
	case before God, can at times do nothing but lie "groaning"
	before the Lord, these inarticulate groanings are the Spirit's own
	vehicle for conveying into "the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth"
	their whole case; and come up before the Hearer of prayer as the
	Spirit's own intercession in their behalf, and that they are
	recognized by Him that sitteth on the Throne, as embodying only what
	His own "will" determined before to bestow upon them
	(Romans 8:26; Romans 8:27)!
	(8) What a view do these two verses (Romans 8:26;
	Romans 8:27) give of the relations
	subsisting between the Divine Persons in the economy of redemption,
	and the harmony of their respective operations in the case of each of
	the redeemed! 
	THIRD:
	Triumphant Summary of the Whole Argument (Romans 8:27- :).