34. yea rather, that is risen
	again—to make good the purposes of His death. Here, as in some
	other cases, the apostle delightfully corrects himself (see  :-; and see on  :-); not
	meaning that the resurrection of Christ was of more saving value than
	His death, but that having "put away sin by the sacrifice of
	Himself"—which though precious to us was to Him of unmingled
	bitterness—it was incomparably more delightful to think that He was
	again alive, and living to see to the efficacy of His death in
	our behalf. 
	who is even—"also"
	at the right hand of God—The
	right hand of the king was anciently the seat of honor (compare
	1 Samuel 20:25; 1 Kings 2:19;
	Psalms 45:9), and denoted
	participation in the royal power and glory (Psalms 45:9- :). The classical writings contain similar allusions.
	Accordingly Christ's sitting at the right hand of God—predicted in
	Psalms 110:1, and historically
	referred to in Mark 16:19; Acts 2:33;
	Acts 7:56; Ephesians 1:20;
	Colossians 3:1; 1 Peter 3:22;
	Revelation 3:21 —signifies the glory
	of the exalted Son of man, and the power in the government of
	the world in which He participates. Hence it is called "sitting
	on the right hand of Power" (Revelation 3:21- :), and "sitting on the right hand of the Majesty
	on high" (Hebrews 1:3)
	[PHILIPPI]. 
	who also maketh intercession
	for us—using all His boundless interest with God in our
	behalf. This is the top of the climax. "His Session at
	God's right hand denotes His power to save us; His
	Intercession, His will to do it" [BENGEL].
	But how are we to conceive of this intercession? Not certainly as of
	one pleading "on bended knees and with outstretched arms,"
	to use the expressive language of CALVIN.
	But yet, neither is it merely a figurative intimation that the power
	of Christ's redemption is continually operative [THOLUCK],
	or merely to show the fervor and vehemence of His love for us
	[CHRYSOSTOM]. It cannot be
	taken to mean less than this: that the glorified Redeemer, conscious
	of His claims, expressly signifies His will that the efficacy
	of His death should be made good to the uttermost, and signifies it
	in some such royal style as we find Him employing in that wonderful
	Intercessory Prayer which He spoke as from within the veil
	(see on Hebrews 1:3- :): "Father,
	I WILL that they also whom
	Thou hast given Me be with Me where I am" (see on Hebrews 1:3- :). But in what form this will is expressed is as
	undiscoverable as it is unimportant.