 4 .]  and saying, Where is the promise of His coming (  ποῦ ἐστιν , implying that it is no where, has passed away and disappeared: cf. reff.  αὐτοῦ , of Christ: whose name would be understood as of course)  ? for from the day when (  ἀφ  ʼ   ἧς , sc. ἠμέρας : reff.)  the fathers fell asleep, all things continue thus from the beginning of creation (the assertion is not easy to apportion grammatically. One thing is certain and may be first cleared away, that we cannot after οὕτως supply ὡς ἦν , “as they were,” E. V.: οὕτως simply referring to the present; as they are, as we now see them, and ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς κτίσεως belonging only to the verb, διαμένει . This being so, we still have two predicatory clauses following the verb: ἀφ ʼ ἧς οἱ πατ . ἐκοιμ ., and ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς κτίσεως . The way of explaining this must be, that the time of waiting for the promise necessarily dates from the death of the πατέρες , and the duration of things continuing as they are now extends back beyond the death of the fathers: so that the meaning will be, ever since the death of those to whom the promise was made, things have continued as we now see them (and as they have ever continued even before those fathers) from the beginning of creation. So that πάντα οὕτως διαμένει ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς κτίσεως is a general proposition applicable to all time: ἀφ ʼ ἧς οἱ πατέρες ἐκοιμήθησαν , the ‘terminus a quo’ this general proposition is taken up and applied to the case in hand. And now we have cleared the way to enquiring, who are meant by  οἱ πατέρες . And the answer is plain: largely and generally, those to whom the promise was made: the same as are indicated Romans 9:5 , ὧν οἱ πατέρες : yet not exclusively these, but simultaneously with them any others who may be in the same category, e. g. those who bear to the N. T. church the same relation as they to that of the O. T. The assertion, as coming from the ἐμπαῖκται , must not be pressed to any particular date, but given that wide reference which would naturally be in the mind of one making such a general charge).