 15 .]  and account the long-suffering of our Lord (  τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν , thus expressed, is hardly to be dissevered from Him who is expressly thus named below, 2 Peter 3:18 . And if so, then, throughout this weighty passage, the Lord Jesus is invested with the full attributes of Deity. It is He who waits and is long-suffering: He, in His union and co-equality with the Father, who ruleth all things after the counsel of His own will)  salvation (contrast to βραδυτῆτα ἡγοῦνται , 2Pe 3:9 ):  even as also (besides myself)  our beloved brother (this term is probably used in a closer sense than as merely signifying fellow-Christian: our beloved fellow-Apostle)  Paul according to the wisdom given to him (cf. 1 Corinthians 3:10 , κατὰ τὴν χάριν τοῦ θεοῦ τὴν δοθεῖσάν μοι , ὡς σοφὸς ἀρχιτέκτων κ . τ . λ . Also Galatians 2:9 ; Ephesians 3:2 ; Ephesians 3:7-8 ; Col 1:25 )  wrote to you (What? Where? to whom? By some the reply to the first has been found in the preceding clause, τὴν τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν μακροθυμίαν σωτηρίαν ἡγεῖσθε : which, in sense, is almost identical with Romans 2:4 , ἀγνοῶν ὅτι τὸ χρηστὸν τοῦ θεοῦ εἰς μετάνοιάν σε ἄγει . So Œc., Grot., al., and more recently Huther, Dietlein. But surely the reference is too narrow to satisfy what follows here, λαλῶν ἐν αὐταῖς περὶ  τούτων , where the reference must be to ταῦτα , which we Christians προσδοκῶμεν , viz. to the coming of the day of the Lord. Thus then we should interpret the καθὼς καί &c. of some particular passage in which St. Paul had exhorted to readiness in expectation of that day, and the ὡς καὶ ἐν πάσαις κ . τ . λ ., 2 Peter 3:16 , of the frequent mention of that day in his other Epistles. In searching then, 2. for some passages which may fulfil the above condition, it seems to me that we need not go beyond the earliest Epistle of St. Paul, viz. 1 Thessalonians. There, in ch. 1Th 4:13 to 1 Thessalonians 5:11 , we have a passage on this very point, and the more satisfactory, because St. Peter seems, in our 2 Peter 3:10 , to have had 1Th 5:2 before his mind. And as to, 3.  ὑμῖν , there seems no need to press it as identifying any particular church, seeing that this our Epistle is addressed to all Christians alike: cf. ch. 2 Peter 1:1 . All that follows from ὑμῖν is what may also be gathered from 2 Peter 3:16 , that our Epistle belongs to a date when the Pauline Epistles were no longer the property only of the churches to which they were written, but were dispersed through, and considered to belong to, the whole Christian Church. What date that is, I have discussed in the Prolegomena. There have been very various opinions as to the passage and Epistle meant: Estius, Calov., Spanheim, Bengel, Gerhard, al., think it to be the Epistle to the Hebrews, on account of ch. Hebrews 9:26 ff., Hebrews 10:25 ; Hebrews 10:37 (see on these in the Prolegg. to the Hebrews, § i. par. 6): Jachmanu, the Epistles to the Corinthians, especially 1 Corinthians 1:7-9 , finding an allusion to 1 Corinthians 2:1 ff. in κατὰ σοφίαν κ . τ . λ .: Benson, the Epistles to the Gal., Eph., Col., being addressed to Asia Minor churches, as he holds this to be; Augusti, referring ἐν εἰρήνῃ to the difference between Paul and Peter, the Epistle to the Gal.: Pott, and Morus, some Epistle which has not come down to us),