 5 .]  For (i. e. they speak thus, because)  this (viz. this fact which follows)  escapes them (passes unnoticed by them)  of their own will (i. e. they shut their eyes to this fact. So we have  θέλων in Od. γ . 272, of Paris and Helen, τὴν δ ʼ ἐθέλων ἐθέλουσαν ἀπήγαγεν ὅνδε δόμονδε ; l1. δ . 300, al. Some, among whom are Rosenmüller, Pott, Bretschneider, Huther, take τοῦτο to refer to the saying of 2 Peter 3:4 , and render θέλοντας ‘  meaning ,’ ‘supposing,’ as in Herodian, v. 3. 11, εἰκόνα τε ἡλίου ἀνέργαστον εἶναι θέλουσι . But besides that this would introduce an unusual meaning for θέλω , and that meaning not in its usual application to an hypothesis or assumption, but to an asserted fact, a stronger objection is, that thus the sentence becomes a very flat one, and quite out of place among the sharp and nervous denunciations of the passage. The other is the rendering of almost all Commentators and versions. The vulg. is ambiguous, “latet enim eos hoc volentes”),  that the heavens (  οὐρανοί  =   οἱ οὐρανοί , see Winer, § 19. 1)  were from of old (ref.: “jam inde a primo rerum omnium initio,” Gerh.)  and the earth ( ἦσαν , above, serves for γῆ also)  formed (  συνεστῶσα , ‘consistent,’ see reff.)  out of water and by means of water (  ἐξ ὕδατος , because the waters that were under the firmament were gathered together into one place and the dry land appeared: and thus water was the material,  out of which the earth was made:  δι  ʼ   ὕδατος , because the waters above the firmament, being divided from the waters below the firmament, by furnishing moisture, and rain, and keeping moist the earth, are  the means by which the earth συνίσταται . This is the simplest rendering, and very nearly that given by Huther. De Wette goes ‘in omnia alia’ after traces of far-fetched cosmogonical references, Indo-Ægyptian and Greek: but the whole interpretation of our passage lies in the book of Genesis. Œc., without mentioning the reference to the waters above and beneath the firmament, gives a similar explanation of the ἐκ and διά ‚ ἐξ ὕδατος μέν ‚ ὡς ἐξ ὑλικοῦ αἰτίου · δι ʼ ὕδατος δέ ‚ ὡς διατελικοῦ )  by the word of God (not of its own will, nor by a fortuitous concurrence of atoms),