 12 .]  looking for and hastening (the older Commentators mostly supplied εἰς after  σπεύδοντας . So E. V., “  hasting unto :” but there seems no reason for this. Two meanings are possible, regarding the accus. as in direct government by the participle: 1. ‘  busied about :’ so in reff.; also Pind. Isthm. v. 22, σπεύδειν ἀρετάν . But in each of these, the object of σπεύδειν seems more properly to belong to the action than here. In Isa., and in Pind., it is an abstract substantive: in Hom., it is ταῦτα , matters within the power and personal employment of the speakers. And so in the numerous other examples in Palm and Rost. Whereas the παρουσία κ . τ . λ ., a future thing, no matter of human practice, does not appear with equal propriety to be in this sense an object of σπεύδειν . 2. We have the other and cognate meaning of σπεύδειν transitive, to “  hasten ,” “  urge on :” which I agree with De Wette in adopting, and in understanding as he does, “They hasten it by perfecting, in repentance and holiness, the work of the Gospel, and thus diminishing the need of the μακροθυμία 2 Peter 3:9 ,” to which the delay of that day is owing. Huther’s objection to this is not difficult to answer. It is true, that the delay or hastening of that day is not man’s matter, but God’s: but it is not uncommon in Scripture to attribute to  us those divine acts, or abstinences from acting, which are really and in their depth, God’s own. Thus we read, that “He could not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief,” Mat 13:58 compared with Mark 6:5-6 ; thus repeatedly of man’s striving with, hindering, quenching, God’s Holy Spirit)  the advent (  παρουσία elsewhere commonly used of a person, and most usually of the presence or advent of the Lord Himself)  of the day of God (= ἡμέρας κυρίου above. De W. compares Clem.-rom. Ephesians 2:0 ad Cor. 12, p. 345, οὐκ οἴδαμεν τὴν ἡμέραν τῆς ἐπιφανείας τοῦ θεοῦ . See also Tit 2:13 ),  by reason of which (  δι  ʼ   ἥν , scil. ἡμέραν ; or, but not so well, παρουσίαν , on account of, for the sake of, which)  the heavens being on fire (the pres. part. gives the reason of the fut. verb following)  shall be dissolved, and the heavenly bodies being scorched up are to be melted (  τήκεται , the pres. of destiny: see above on λυομένων , 2 Peter 3:11 . De Wette thinks the meaning is not to be literally pressed, as if the στοιχεῖα were a solid mass which would actually liquefy: but why not? The same liquefaction has actually taken place in the crust of the earth wherever the central fires have acted on it. All our igneous rocks have been in a liquid state: why should not that day, in its purifying process, produce a similar effect on the earth again, and on her cognate planets, if they are to be included?
	In this recapitulation, the Apostle mentions that part only of the destruction of that day which concerns the  heavens : arguing à majori. The similarity to Isa 34:4 can hardly escape notice, καὶ τακήσονται πᾶσαι αἱ δυνάμεις τῶν οὐρανῶν . See also Mic 1:4 ).