 6 .]  by means of which (two) (viz. the waters under the firmament and the waters above the firmament: for in the flood (1) the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and (2) the windows of heaven were opened, Genesis 7:11 . The interpretations of  δι  ʼ   ὧν have been very various. Œc. understands ὧν to refer to the heavens and the earth, τῆς μὲν τὸ ὕδωρ ἐπικλυσάσης , τῶν οὐρανῶν δὲ τοὺς καταῤῥακτὰς αὐτῶν ἐπαφέντων : and so Bed [22] (but giving a curious meaning to δι ʼ ὧν : not, as Huther states, ‘  in quibus partibus ,’ but grammatically, though strangely, ‘  by means of which (its parts perishing),  the world, which was made up of heaven and earth, perished :’ “per hæc enim perdita mundus qui in his constiterat, periit”), Beza, Wolf, Horneius, De Wette, al. Again Grot., Piscator, Dietlein, al., take δι ʼ ὧν for ‘  quamobrem ,’ i. e. because the world was ἐξ ὕδ . κ . δι ʼ ὕδ ., or because it was τῷ τοῦ θεοῦ λόγῳ . Luther renders wrongly,  dennoch ¸ nevertheless. Calvin, Pott, al. and recently Huther, understand δι ʼ ὧν of waters; and account for the plur. by the ὕδωρ as material and the ὕδωρ as medium, above, or as Gerhard by understanding “things,” and taking in also the word of God as comprehended)  the then world (i. e. the whole state of things then existing. The Apostle’s argument is, as against the assertors of the world’s endurance for ever, that it  has once been destroyed , so that their assertion is thereby invalidated. The expression  ὁ τότε κόσμος must neither be limited, as Œc., τὸ ἀπώλετο μὴ πρὸς πάντα τὸν κόσμον ἀκουστέον , ἀλλὰ πρὸς μόνα τὰ ζῶα , ἃ τὸν ἅπαντα κόσμον οἱονεί εἰδοποιεῖ : nor strictly pushed to its utmost extent, as Huther, who maintains that it must be exactly identical with οἱ οὐρανοὶ καὶ ἡ γῆ below. The analogy is not exactly, but is sufficiently close: and κόσμος , as an indefinite common term, takes in the οὐρανοὶ κ . γῆ , which were then instrumental in, and purified by, the destruction, if not altogether swept away by it. Nay the analogy is closer than this: for just as Noah stepped out of the Ark on a new world, the face of the heavens clear, and the face of the earth renewed, so we look for a new heavens and earth ( 2Pe 3:13 ), yet like these others constructed out of the materials of the old)  being inundated with water, perished (  ἀπώλετο , see last note; not,  was annihilated , but lost its then form and subsistence as a κόσμος , and passed into a new state. Only thus, as Huther observes, does the verse come in logically as a contradiction to the saying of the scoffers, πάντα οὕτως διαμένει ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς κτίσεως ):
	 [22] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.