 16 .]  as also in all (  his , but not expressed: with the ταῖς it would mean, in all his Epistles  as a finished whole : without it, in  all Epistles which he writes , leaving room for the possibility that the number of those Epistles was not complete, but still being added to)  Epistles, speaking in them (as he does: the pres. part. contains the justification of the assertion: not as Huther, “when he speaks”)  of these things (viz. the coming of our Lord, and the end of the world),  in which (Epistles, if  αἷς be read: if  οἷς , “  in which sayings of his :” not, “in which things,” “in which subjects,” as some (e. g. Bengel) have rendered by way of escape from the supposed difficulty: for οἷς is correlative with τὰς λοιπὰς γραφάς , and must therefore designate some writings previously mentioned: or else the sentence is stultified)  are some things difficult to understand (De W. especially refers to 2 Thessalonians 2:1 ff.: and it is not improbable that this may have been particularly in the Apostle’s mind. See note on 2 Timothy 2:18 . Grot. is clearly wrong in extending the list to difficulties about faith and works, &c.),  which the ignorant (unintelligent, uninformed: hardly, as De W., with an understood meaning of rebellion and unbelief: for that would be too much here. ἀμαθία may arise from many causes: but the misunderstanding of difficult Scriptures is common to the ἀμαθεῖς in general)  and unstable (ref.: those who, wanting firm foundation and anchorage, waver and drift about with every wind of doctrine. Such persons are stirred from their Christian stability by every apparent difficulty: are rendered anxious and perplexed by hard texts: and shewing more anxiety to interpret them somehow, than to wait upon God for their solution, rush upon erroneous and dangerous ways of interpretation)  distort (  στρεβλόω , properly, to twist with a handscrew or windlass, στρέβλη : σκάφος στρέβλαισι ναυτικαῖς προσηγμένον , Æsch. Suppl. 441. Hence to torment with the στρέβλη : and then met., to distort, pervert, strain, in meaning. Œc. gives for it ἐνδιαστρόφως ἐξαγγέλλειν ),  as also the other Scriptures (or, passages of Scripture having reference to this great subject: as we have ἑτέρα γραφὴ λέγει John 19:37 , πᾶσα γραφὴ θεόπνευστος (see note) 2 Timothy 3:16 . Whichever be understood, it is plain, 1. that by these words St. Paul’s Epistles are reckoned among the Christian scriptures: 2. that there were at this time besides those Epistles, other writings holding a similar place, known as γραφαί ; probably, at least, the three Gospels (and Acts?), and some of the earlier written catholic Epistles. That by  τὰς λοιπὰς γραφάς should be meant the O. T. scriptures, is not probable: these would have been more fully designated than by being placed in the same category with the inspired writings of recent or living men),  to (as a contribution to towards, so as to help towards)  their own perdition (  τὴν ἰδίαν αὐτῶν , more strongly reflective than with one of these merely).