Romans 2:15.  Who:  or, ‘being such as.’ This is virtually the proof that they are a law unto themselves.
	 Shew the work of the law.  By their doing of it show what is the work of the law = the sum of ‘the things of the law’ (Romans 2:14).
	 Written in their hearts.  They show that this work of the law is written in their hearts. That is, the Gentiles, in the case assumed, are a law unto themselves, as is evident from their showing by their acts that what the law enjoins is written in their hearts.
	 Their conscience also bearing witness.  Their conscience adds its testimony to that of their act; ‘witnesses together with.’ The practical proof (‘show,’ etc.), is confirmed by this internal use.
	 Their thoughts one with another. ‘ Meanwhile’   is incorrect. The question arises, whether ‘one with another’ refers to ‘thoughts’ or to the persons spoken of. The latter view (which would be better expressed by placing ‘one with another’ at the close of the verse) indicates that their moral judgments upon one another also attest that the law is written in their hearts. The former view, which is preferable, makes the whole of the latter part of the verse refer to the moral process which takes place in the heart of man after a good or bad act: the conscience sits in judgment, rendering sentence in God’s name according to the law; the ‘thoughts’ are the several moral reflections which appear as witnesses in this court of conscience.
	 Accusing or even excusing them. ‘ Even’ is preferable to ‘also,’ since it suggests that the conscience finds more accusing than excusing thoughts. It is also true, that adverse judgments of other persons are more common, but we adopt the view that the judgment spoken of is that of a man upon his own acts and feelings. ‘This judicial process, which takes place here in every man’s heart, is a forerunner of the great judgment at the end of the world’ (comp. Romans 2:16). ‘How can we fail to admire here both that fine analysis with which the Apostle reveals in the heart of the Gentiles a true hall of judgment where are heard the witnesses against and for the accused, then the sentence of the judge,
	and that largeness of heart with which, after having traced so repulsive  a  picture of the moral deformities of the Gentile life (chap. 1), he brings out here in a manner not less striking the indestructible moral elements of which that life, although so profoundly sunken, offers now and then the unexceptionable signs.’ (Godet)
	