Romans 2:16.  In  the day.  The question of connection is the important one. Some Join directly with Romans 2:15;, referring the ‘day’ to the day when the gospel is preached to the Gentiles, and the demonstration of Romans 2:14-15 is made. But this verse seems to point to the future judgment. Most commentators, therefore, look for the connection in some more appropriate part of the preceding context. The E. V. loins with Romans 2:12, but Romans 2:13 is not parenthetical (see Romans 2:13). Romans 2:14-15 are, however, and the connection with Romans 2:13 (‘the doers of the law shall be justified’) is even more appropriate, since it brings the discussion closer to the main thought, namely, the conviction of the Jews. (Romans 2:5; Romans 2:10, which have been suggested, are too remote.) The attempt to preserve the close connection with Romans 2:15, rendering ‘unto the day,’ is grammatically objectionable.
	 Shall judge.  A change of accent permits the translation, ‘judgeth,’ but even the present tense might point to the great day of judgment.
	 The secrets of men.  In order to justify the doers of the law (Romans 2:13), the moral quality of their actions must be determined; this is not known to men, it belongs to the secret things.
	 According to my gospel.  This cannot refer to a writing called Paul’s Gospel. It was the gospel he preached, ‘my’ pointing either to the fact that he preached it, or to his special message to the Gentiles. The gospel of the free grace of God in Christ for the salvation of all that believe, revealed to him directly by Christ at his conversion and call to the Apostleship; comp. Galatians 1:7-9; Galatians 1:11; Galatians 1:16. ‘According to’ may refer only to the fact of judgment, which his gospel declares; but this seems a   weak thought in this connection. Paul was so assured of the truth of the gospel he preached that he conceives of it as presenting the standard of judgment in the great day. Nor is this an inappropriate thought. The principle of Romans 2:13, it is thus indicated, accords with the gospel; furthermore, the gospel is about Jesus Christ (chap. Romans 1:3-4), and the judgment is  through Jesus Christ, who is not only Mediator in the gospel, but Judge in the great ‘day’ (comp. Acts 17:30-31); and many similar passages. The Saviour is Judge; good news for those who accept Him, but a warning to those who refuse Him. Since He is the Judge, and God renders ‘to every man according to his works’ (Romans 2:6), our good works also are through Jesus Christ, and His salvation must result in such works.
	