 10 .]  For this reason (what reason? ‘quia me vincto evangelium currit,’ says Bengel: and with this agree Huther, De W., al. But neither 1) is this sound logic, nor 2) is it in accordance with the Apostle’s usage of διὰ τοῦτο … ἵνα . 1) The fact, that the word of God is not bound, is clearly not the reason why he suffers these things for the elect: nor can we say with Huther, that the  consciousness of this fact is that in which he endures all. De W. takes the predominant idea to be, the dispersion and success of God’s word, in and by which the Apostle is encouraged to suffer. But this would certainly, as Wolf says, render the connexion ‘dilutior et parum cohærens.’ 2) In 1 Timothy 1:16 , διὰ τοῦτο ἠλεήθην … ἵνα , and Philemon 1:15 , διὰ τοῦτο ἐχωρίσθη … ἵνα , the reference of δ . τ . is evidently to what follows: cf. also Romans 4:16 , 2 Corinthians 13:10 . I would therefore refer the words to the following, and consider them, as in the above instances, as a marked way of indicating the reason presently to be given: ‘for this purpose, … that;’ so Chrys., Thdrt., Wolf, Wiesinger, al.)  I endure all things (not merely suffer (obj.): but readiness and persistence (subj.) are implied in the word, and the universal πάντα belongs to this subj. meaning ‘I am enduring, ready to bear, all things’)  for the sake of the elect (see reff., especially Titus 1:1 . The Apostle does not, as De W., refer merely to those elect of God who are not yet converted, but generally to the whole category, both those who are already turned to him, and those who are yet to be turned: cf. the parallel declaration in Colossians 1:24 , ἀνταναπληρῶ τὰ ὑστερήματα τῶν θλίψεων τοῦ χριστοῦ … ὑπὲρ τοῦ σώματος αὐτοῦ , ὅ ἐστιν ἡ ἐκκλησία ),  that they also (as well as ourselves, with reference to what is to follow, the certainty that we, who suffer with Him, shall reign with Him: De W. (see above) says, ‘those yet unconverted, as well as those already converted:’ and the mere καὶ αὐτοί might seem to favour this view; but it manifestly is not so)  may obtain the salvation which is in (as its element and condition of existence)  Christ Jesus with eternal glory (salvation here, in its spiritual presence and power χάριτί  ἐστε σεσωσμένοι , Ephesians 2:5 ; and glory hereafter, the full development and expansion of salvation, Rom 8:21 ).  Faithful is the saying (see on reff.: another of those current Christian sayings, probably the utterances originally of the Spirit by those who spoke προφητείας in the Church, and, as in 1 Timothy 3:16 , bearing with it so much of balance and rhythmical arrangement, as to seem to be a portion of some hymn):  for (Chrys., Œc., al., regard this  γάρ as rendering a reason why the λόγος is πιστός , understanding πιστ . ὁ λ . of what has gone before, viz. the certainty that ὁ ζωῆς οὐρανίου τυχών , καὶ αἰωνίου τεύξεται . But this is most unnatural. The γάρ is not merely explicative, as Grot., Huther, al., but as in 1 Timothy 4:9 , renders a reason for the πιστός , in the assertion of the fact in well-known words:  for the fact is so, that if &c.)  if we died with Christ (on account of the aorist, pointing to  some one definite event , the reference must be to that participation in Christ’s death which takes place  at baptism in all those who are His, and which those who follow Him in sufferings emphatically shew that they then did really take on them: see Romans 6:3-4 ; Romans 6:8 ; Colossians 2:12 . Certainly, if the aor. stood alone, it might be taken proleptically, looking back on life from that future day in which the συνζήσομεν will be realized: but coupled as it is with the  present ὑπομένομεν and the future ἀρνησόμεθα , we can hardly take it otherwise than literally as to time, of an event already past, and if so, strictly as in the parallel Romans 6:8 , where the reference is clear),  we shall also live with Him (hereafter in glory):  if we endure (with Him: the συν must be supplied, cf. εἴπερ συνπάσχομεν , Rom 8:17 ),  we shall also reign with Him (see Romans 5:17 ; Romans 8:17 . In the former pair, death and life are opposed: in this, subjection (  ὑπο - μ .) and dominion. See the interesting anecdote of Nestor, quoted from the martyrology by Grotius):  if we shall deny (  Him ),  He also will deny us (see Mat 10:33 ):  if we disbelieve (not, His Resurrection, as Chrys.: εἰ ἀπιστοῦμεν ὅτι ἀνέστη , οὐδὲν ἀπὸ τούτου βλάπτεται ἐκεῖνος : nor His Divinity, as Œc.(2) ὅτι θεὸς ἐστί , but Him, generally. Ellic.’s note (which see) has convinced me that ἀπιστία seems always in the N. T. to imply not ‘untrueness,’ ‘unfaithfulness,’ but definitely ‘unbelief:’ see note on Romans 3:3 , in Vol. II. edn. 5),  He remains faithful (to His own word cited above):  for He cannot deny Himself (i.e. if  we desert faith in  Him, He will not break faith with  us ; He having declared that whosoever denies Him shall be denied by Him, and we having pledged ourselves to confess Him, we may become unbelieving, and break our pledge, but He will not break His: as He has said, it shall surely be. See Romans 3:3 . Chrys. gives a curious explanation: ἀληθής ἐστι , βέβαιός ἐστιν , ἄν τε εἴπωμεν , ἄν τε μὴ εἴπωμεν … ἐκεῖνος γὰρ ὁ αὐτὸς μένει καὶ ἀρνουμένων καὶ μὴ ἀρνουμένων . ἀρνήσασθαι γὰρ ἑαυτὸν οὐ δύναται , τουτέστι , μὴ εἶναι . ἡμεις λέγομεν ὅτι οὐκ ἔστιν , εἰ καὶ μὴ τὸ πρᾶγμα οὕτως ἔχει . οὐκ ἔχει φύσιν μὴ εἶναι , οὐ δυνατόν · τουτέστιν , εἰς τὸ μὴ εἶναι αὐτὸν χωρῆσαι . ἀεὶ μένει , ἀεὶ ἔστιν αὐτοῦ ἡ ὑπόστασις , μὴ τοίνυν ὡς χαριζόμενοι αὐτῷ , οὕτω διακεώμεθα , ἢ ὡς καταβλάπτοντες . But manifestly there is no such motive as this last brought forward, nor is the assertion ἐκεῖνος μένει , but ἐκ .  πιστὸς μένει . Mack proposes another alternative, ‘If we fall from the faith and forfeit our own salvation, He still carries forward His own gracious will, in saving mankind by the Gospel.’ But that given above seems best to suit the context).