 5 .] The soldier must serve on condition of not dividing his service: now we have another instance of the same requirement: and in the conflicts of the arena there are certain laws, without the fulfilment of which no man can obtain the victory.  But (the above is not the only example, but)  if any one also (q. d. to give another instance)  strive in the games (it is necessary to adopt a periphrasis for  ἀθλῇ . That of E. V. ‘  strive for masteries ,’ is not definite enough, omitting all mention of the games, and by consequence not even suggesting them to the ordinary reader. The vulg. gives it ‘certat in agone:’ and Luth., merely  kämpfet : so also Ostervald and Diodati: Scio, ‘lidia en los juegos publicos.’ The word ἀθλ  εῖν , in the best Attic writers, means ‘to work,’ ‘to endure,’ and ἀθλ  εύειν , ‘to contend in the games.’ (See however Ellic.’s note.) This usage belongs to later Greek: see Palm and Rost’s Lex.),  he is not crowned (even in case of his gaining the victory? or is the word inclusive of all efforts made to get the crown, ‘he has no chance of the crown?’ rather the former, from ἀθλήσῃ below),  unless he have striven (this seems to assume the getting of the victory)  lawfully (according to the prescribed conditions (not merely of the contest, but of the preparation also, see Ellic). It is the usual phrase: so Galen, comm. in Hippocr. i. 15: οἱ γυμνασταὶ καὶ οἱ νομίμως ἀθλοῦντες , ἐπὶ μὲν τοῦ ἀρίστου τὸν ἄρτον μόνον ἐσθίουσιν , ἐπὶ δὲ τοῦ δείπνου τὸ κρέας : Arrian, Epict. iii. 10, εἰ νομίμως ἤθλησας , εἰ ἔφαγες ὅσα δεῖ , εἰ ἐγυμνάσθης , εἰ τοῦ ἀλείπτου ἤκουσας (Wetst., where see more examples). Compare the parallel place, 1 Corinthians 9:24 . τί ἐστιν , ἐὰν μὴ νομίμως ; οὐκ , ἐάν τις τὸν ἀγῶνα εἰσέλθῃ , ἀρκεῖ τοῦτο , οὐδὲ ἐὰν ἀλείψηται , οὐδὲ ἐὰν συμπλακῇ , ἀλλὰ ἂν μὴ πάντα τὸν τῆς ἀθλήσεως νόμον φυλάττῃ , καὶ τὸν ἐπὶ σιτίων , καὶ τὸν ἐπὶ σωφροσύνης καὶ σεμνότητος , καὶ τὸν ἐν παλαίστρᾳ , καὶ πάντα ἁπλῶς διέλθοι τὰ τοῖς ἀθληταῖς προσήκοντα , οὐδέποτε στεφανοῦται . Chrys.).