 16 .]  But (contrast not to the ὀρθοτομεῖν merely, but to the whole course of conduct recommended in the last verse)  profane babblings (see ref. 1 Tim.)  avoid (= ἐκτρέπεσθαι , 1 Timothy 6:20 ; so Origen has περιΐστασθαι κινδύνους (in Hammond): Joseph. B. J. ii. 8. 6, of the Essenes, τὸ ὀμνύειν αὐτοῖς περιΐσταται : Lucian, Hermotim. c. 86, οὕτως ἐκτραπήσομαι καὶ περιστήσομαι , ὥσπερ τοὺς λυττῶντας τῶν κυνῶν : Marc. Antonin. iii. 4, χρὴ μὲν οὖν καὶ τὸ εἰκῆ καὶ μάτην ἐν τῷ εἰρμῷ τῶν φαντασιῶν περιΐστασθαι : see other examples in Wetst. The meaning seems to come from a number of persons falling back from an object of fear or loathing, and standing at a distance round it. Beza’s sense, ‘cohibe, i.e. observa et velut obside, nempe ne in ecclesiam irrepant,’ has no countenance from usage):  for they (the false teachers: not the κενοφωνίαι : cf. ὁ λόγος αὐτῶν below)  will advance (intransitive, see reff., not transitive, governing ἀσεβείας in the accus.: see below)  to a worse pitch of impiety (cf. ref. Jos., and Diodor. Sic. xiv. 98, ὁ δὲ βασιλεὺς οὐ βουλόμενος τὸν Εὐαγόραν προκόπτειν ἐπὶ πλεῖον …),  and their word will eat  (  νομή (  pasture , ref. John. Aristot. Hist. An. 10),  from νέμεσθαι ( τὸ φῦμα ἐκραγὲν ἐνέμετο πρόσω , Herod. iii. 133), is the medical term for the consuming progress of mortifying disease: cf. νομαὶ σαρκὸς θηριώδεις , Plut. Mor. p. 165 e: τὸ ἕλκος θᾶττον ποιεῖται νομήν , Polyb. i. 81. 6, and Hippocrates and Galen in Wetst. It is also used of the devastating progress of fire, as in Polyb. i. 48. 5, τὴν μὲν νομὴν τοῦ πυρὸς ἔνεργον συνέβαινε γίγνεσθαι , and xi. 5. 5, τὸ πῦρ λαμβάνει νομήν )  as a gangrene (  γάγγραινα , from γράω , γραίνω , to eat into, is defined by Hippocrates (in Wetst.) to be the state of a tumour between inflammation and entire mortification ἕπεται ταῖς μεγάλαις φλεγμοναῖς ἡ καλουμένη γάγγραινα , νέκρωσίς τε οὖσα τοῦ πάσχοντος μορίου , καὶ ἢν μὴ διὰ ταχέων τις αὐτὴν ἰάσηται , νεκροῦται ῥᾳδίως τὸ πάσχον τοῦτο μόριον , ἐπιλαμβάνει τε τὰ συνεχῆ , καὶ ἀποκτείνει τὸν ἄνθρωπον . Sometimes it is identical with καρκῖνος , a cancer):  of whom is (ref.)  Hymenæus (see note, 1Ti 1:20 )  and Philetus (of him nothing further is known),  men who concerning the truth went astray (cf. 1Ti 6:21 ),  saying that the resurrection has already taken place (cf. Tert. de resurr. carnis, c. 19, vol. ii. p. 820, “resurrectionem quoque mortuorum manifeste adnuntiatam in imaginariam significationem distorquent, adseverantes ipsam etiam mortem spiritaliter intelligendam. Non enim hanc esse in vero quæ sit in medio dissidium carnis atque animæ, sed ignorantiam Dei, per quam homo mortuus Deo non minus in errore jacuerit quam in sepulcro. Itaque et resurrectionem eam vindicandam, qua quis adita veritate sed animatus et revivificatus Deo, ignorantiæ morte discussa, velut de sepulcro veteris hominis eruperit: … exinde ergo resurrectionem fide consecutos cum domino esse, cum eum in baptismate induerint.”
	So also Irenæus, ii. 31. 2, p. 164, “esse autem resurrectionem a mortuis, agnitionem ejus quæ ab eis dicitur veritatis.” (See Ellicott’s note.) This error, which belonged to the Gnostics subsequently, may well have been already sown and springing up in the apostolic age. If the form of it was that described by Tertullian, it would be one of those instances of wresting the words of St. Paul himself (cf. Colossians 2:12 ; Romans 6:4 , al.) of which St. Peter speaks 2 Peter 3:16 . See on this Aug. Ep. iv. (cxix.) 4, vol. iii. p. 206. Thdrt. (so also Pel.) gives a curious and certainly mistaken meaning, τὰς ἐκ παιδοποιΐας διαδοχὰς ἀνάστασιν οἱ δυσώνυμοι προσηγόρευον : (so Aug. Hær. 59, de Seleucianis, vol. viii. p. 42, “Resurrectionem non putant futuram, sed quotidie fieri in generatione filiorum:”) Schöttg. another, but merely as a conjecture, that the resurrection of some of the bodies of the saints with Christ ( Mat 27:52 ) may have been by them called ‘the Resurrection of the dead’),  and are overturning (ref.)  the faith of some .