 19 .]  Firm endurance , notwithstanding this overturning of the faith of some,  of the church of God: its signs and seals .  Nevertheless (cf. Ellicott)  God’s firm foundation standeth (not, as E. V. ungrammatically, ‘  the foundation of God standeth sure .’ But what is ὁ στερεὸς θεμ . τ . θεοῦ ? Very various interpretations have been given. παρασαλεῦσαι , says Thdrt., οὐ δύνανται τὴν τῆς ἀληθείας κρηπῖδα . ὁ θεὸς γὰρ τοῦτον τέθεικε τὸν θεμέλιον : Cocceius, Michaelis, Ernesti, explain it the  fundamental doctrine of the Resurrection : Ambr.,  the promises of God : Bengel, Vatabl.,  fidem Dei immotam : Bretschn., al.,  Christ , 1 Corinthians 3:11 . Heinrichs, Rosenm.,  the Christian religion : Calv., Calov., Wolf, Corn.-a-lap., al.,  Dei electionem . Rather, as Mosh., Kypke, Heydenr., Mack, De W., Huther, Wiesinger, al., ἐκκλησία τεθεμελιωμένη ὑπὸ θεοῦ the congregation of the faithful, considered as a foundation of a building placed by God, the οἰκία spoken of in the next verse. So Estius: “Ipsa ecclesia rectissime firmum ac solidum Dei fundamentum vocatur, quia super petram, i.e. Christum, a Deo firmiter fundata, nullis aut Satanæ machinis aut tentationum fluctibus subverti potest aut labefactari: nam etsi quidam ab ea deficiunt, ipsa tamen in suis electis perseverat usque in finem.” He then cites 1 John 2:19 ; Matthew 24:24 ; John 10:28 ; Romans 8:35 ; Romans 8:39 ; and proceeds, “Ex his admodum fit verisimile, firmum Dei fundamentum intelligi fideles electos: sive, quod idem est, ecclesiam in electis.” Against the tottering faith of those just mentioned, he sets the στερεὸς θεμ ., and the ἕστηκεν . It cannot be moved: Heb 12:28 ),  having (“ ‘  seeing it hath ,’ part. with a very faint causal force, illustrating the previous declaration: cf. Donalds. Gr. § 615.” Ellic.)  this seal (probably in allusion to the practice of engraving inscriptions over doors (Deuteronomy 6:9 ; Deu 11:20 ) and on pillars and foundation stones ( Rev 21:14 ). The seal (inscription) would indicate  ownership and  destination : both of which are pointed at in the two texts following) (1)  The Lord knoweth (see 1 Corinthians 8:3 , note: ‘novit amanter (?), nec nosse desinit,’ as Bengel)  them that are His (the LXX runs: ἐπέσκεπται καὶ ἔγνω ὁ θεὸς τοὺς ὄντας αὐτοῦ καὶ τοὺς ἁγίους , καὶ προσηγάγετο πρὸς ἑαυτόν ):  and (2)  Let every one that nameth the name of the Lord (viz.  as his Lord: not exactly equivalent to ‘calleth on the name of the Lord’)  stand aloof from iniquity (the passage in Isa. stands, ἀπόστητε , ἀπόστητε , ἐξέλθατε ἐκεῖθεν , καὶ ἀκαθάρτου μὴ ἅψησθε , … ἀφορίσθητε οἱ φέροντες τὰ σκεύη κυρίου . It is clearly no reason against this passage being here  alluded to , that (as Conyb.) it is  expressly cited 2 Corinthians 6:17 . Ellic. remarks, that it is possibly in continued allusion to Numbers 16:26 , ἀποσχίσθητε ἀπὸ τῶν σκηνῶν , τῶν ἀνθρώπων τῶν σκληρῶν τούτων ).