 22 .] Exhortations, taken up again from 2 Timothy 2:16 , on the matter of which the intervening verses have been a digression.  But (contrast to the last-mentioned character, 2 Timothy 2:21 , in the introduction of νεωτ . ἐπιθ .)  youthful lusts (not ‘cupiditates rerum novarum,’ as Salmasius; see against him Suicer, vol. i. p. 1167, νεωτερικαὶ οὐχ αὗται εἰσὶν αἱ τῆς πορνείας μόνον , ἀλλὰ πᾶσα ἐπιθυμία ἄτοπος , νεωτερική . ἀκουέτωσαν οἱ γεγηρακότες , ὅτι οὐ δεῖ τὰ τῶν νεωτέρων ποιεῖν . κἂν ὑβριστὴς ᾖ τις , κἂν δυναστείας ἐρᾷ , κἂν χρημάτων , κἂν σωμάτων , κἂν ὁτουοῦν δήποτε , νεωτερικὴ ἡ ἐπιθυμία , ἀνόητος · οὔπω τῆς καρδίας βεβηκυίας οὐδὲ τῶν φρενῶν ἐν βάθει τεθεισῶν , ἀλλ ʼ ᾐωρημένων , ἀνάγκη ταῦτα πάντα γίινεσθαι . Chrys.; and Thdrt., τουτέσττρυφήν , γέλωτος ἀμετρίαν , δόξαν κενήν , καὶ τὰ τούτοις προσόμοια . See also Basil. Cæs. in Suicer, as above)  fly from, but (contrast to the hypothesis of the opposite course to that recommended above)  follow after righteousness (moral rectitude, as contrasted with ἀδικία , 2 Timothy 2:19 ; not, as Calov., ‘the righteousness which is by faith;’ far better Calvin: ‘hoc est, rectam vivendi rationem.’ See the parallel, 1Ti 6:11 ),  faith, love, peace with (  μετά belongs to εἰρήνην , not to δίωκε ; cf. Hebrews 12:14 , εἰρήνην διώκετε μετὰ πάντων : also Rom 12:18 )  those who call upon the Lord (Christ, see 1Co 1:2 )  out of a pure heart (these last words belong to ἐπικαλουμένων , and serve to designate the earnest and single-minded, as contrasted with the false teachers, who called on Him, but not out of a pure heart: cf. ch. 2 Timothy 3:5 ; 2 Timothy 3:8 , and especially Titus 1:15-16 . Chrys. draws as an inference from this, μετὰ δὲ τῶν ἄλλων οὐ χρὴ πρᾶον εἶναι , which is directly against 2 Timothy 2:25 ; Thdrt. far better, drawing the distinction between  love and  peace : ἀγαπᾶν μὲν γὰρ ἅπαντας δυνατόν , ἐπειδήπερ τοῦτο καὶ ὁ εὐαγγελικὸς παρακελεύεται νόμος , Ἀγαπᾶτε τοὺς ἐχθροὺς ὑμῶν · εἰρηνεύειν δὲ οὐ πρὸς ἅπαντας ἔνεστι , τῆς γὰρ κοινῆς τοῦτο προαιρέσεως δεῖται · τοιοῦτοι δὲ πάντες οἱ ἐκ καθαρᾶς καρδίας τὸν δεσπότην ἐπικαλούμενοι . See Rom 12:18 ).