 4 .]  No soldier when on service is (suffers himself to be: the passive sense predominates: ‘is,’ as his normal state. Or the verb may be middle, as Ellic., ‘  entangleth himself ,’ and vulg., ‘  implicat se ’)  entangled (ref.; ἐν βιαίοις ἐνπλακέντων πόνοις , Plato, Legg. vii. p. 814 e. Grot. quotes from Cicero ‘occupationibus implicatus:’ and we have in de Off. ii. 11, ‘qui contrahendis negotiis implicantur’)  in the businesses of life (cf. Plato, Rep. vi. p. 500, οὐδὲ γάρ που … σχολὴ τῷ γε ὡς ἀληθῶς πρὸς τοῖς οὖσι τὴν διάνοιαν ἔχοντι κάτω βλέπειν εἰς ἀνθρώπων πραγματείας : Arrian, Epict. iii. 22 (Wetst.), ὡς ἐν παρατάξει , μήποτ ʼ ἀπερίσπαστον εἶναι δεῖ , ὅλον πρὸς τῇ διακονίᾳ τοῦ θεοῦ … οὐ προσδεδεμένον καθήκουσιν ἰδιωτικοῖς , οὐδ ʼ ἐμπεπλεγμένον σχέσεσιν : Ambros. de Offic. i. 36 (184), vol. iii. p. 49, ‘si is, qui imperatori militat, a susceptionibus litium, actu negotiorum forensium, venditione mercium prohibetur humanis Iegibus, quanto magis, &c.:’ Ps-Athanas. quæst. in Epistolas Pauli 117: εἰ γὰρ ἐπιγείῳ βασιλεῖ ὁ μέλλων στρατεύεσθαι οὐκ ἀρέσει , ἐὰν μὴ ἀφήσῃ πάσας τὰς τοῦ βίου φρουτίδας , πόσῳ μᾶλλον μέλλων στρατεύεσθαι τῷ ἐπουρανίῳ βασιλεῖ ; see other examples in Wetst. “Vox Græca πραγμάτεια ( פרקמטיא ), pro mercatura, sæpius occurrit in Pandectis Talmudicis.” Schöttgen. On the whole matter, consult Grotius’s note),  that he may please him who called him to be a soldier (who originally enrolled him as a soldier: the word signifies to  levy soldiers , or  raise a troop , and ὁ στρατολογήσας designates the commander of such troop. So ἀντὶ τῶν ἀπολωλότων ἀνδρῶν στρατολογήσαντες ἐξ ἁπάσης φυλῆς , Dion. Hal. xi. 24. The same writer uses στρατολογία for a  muster , a levy of soldiers, vi. 44; ix. 38. The ‘cui se prohavit’ of the vulgate is unintelligible, unless as Grot. suggests, it is an error for ‘  qui se probavit.’ The taking of these precepts according to the letter, to signify that no minister of Christ may have a secular occupation, is quite beside the purpose: for 1) it is not ministers, but all soldiers of Christ who are spoken of: 2) the position of the verb ἐμπλέκεται shews that it is not the fact of the  existence of such occupation, but the being  entangled in it, which is before the Apostle’s mind: 3) the Apostle’s own example sufficiently confutes such an idea. Only then does it become unlawful, when such occupation, from its engrossing the man, becomes a hindrance to the work of the ministry, or from its nature is incompatible with it).