 8 13 .] This statement and substantiation of two of the leading facts of the gospel, seems, especially as connected with the exhortations which follow on it 2 Timothy 2:14 ff., to be aimed at the false teachers by whose assumption Timotheus was in danger of being daunted. The Incarnation and Resurrection of Christ were two truths especially imperilled, and indeed denied, by their teaching. At the same time these very truths, believed and persisted in, furnished him with the best grounds for stedfastness in his testimony to the Gospel, and attachment to the Apostle himself, suffering for his faithfulness to them: and on his adherence to these truths depended his share in that Saviour in whom they were manifested, and in union with whom, in His eternal and unchangeable truth, our share in blessedness depends.  Remember, that Jesus Christ has been raised up from the dead (the accus. after μνημόνευε imports that it is the  fact respecting Jesus Christ, not so much He Himself, to which attention is directed (see reff.). Ellic. takes exactly the other view, citing in its favour Winer, § 45. 4, who however implicitly maintains my rendering, by classing even 1 John 4:2 , 2 John 1:7 , with Hebrews 13:23 , γινώσκετε τὸν ἀδ . Τιμόθεον ἀπολελυμένον , which he renders “  ihr wisset, dass … emblassen ist. ” Ellic. refers to my note on 1 John 4:2 , as if it were inconsistent with the rendering here: but the verb there is ὁμολογεῖν , not μνημονεύειν , which I conceive makes all the difference. According to Ellic.’s rendering, unless we refer ἐν ᾧ to Christ, which he does not, the context becomes very involved and awkward. The gen. is more usual in later Greek (see Luke 17:32 ; John 15:20 ; John 16:4 ; John 16:21 ; Acts 20:35 , &c.) but the accus. in classical, see Palm and Rost sub voce, and cf. Herod. i. 36, Æschyl. Pers. 769 (783 Dindorf), Soph. Ag. 1273, Philoct. 121, Eur. Androm. 1165 (1141 Matthiæ), &c.), (Jesus Christ, who was)  of the seed of David (this clause must be taken as =  τὸν ἐκ σπέρμ . Δαυίδ , and the unallowable and otherwise unaccountable ellipsis of the article may probably be explained, as De W., by the words being part of a recognized and technical profession of faith. Compare Romans 1:3 , which is closely parallel.
	Mack’s attempt to join ἐκ σπέρμ . Δ . to ἐγηγερμένον ἐκ νεκρ ., ‘that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead in His flesh, as He sprung from David,’ is hardly worth refutation),  according to my Gospel (‘the Gospel entrusted to me to teach,’ as in reff. Here the expression may seem to be used with reference to the false teachers, but as in the other places it has no such reference, I should rather incline to regard it as a solemn way of speaking, identifying these truths with the preaching which had been the source of Timotheus’s belief.
	Baur, in spite of ἐν ᾧ &c. following, understands this εὐαγγ . μου of the  Gospel of St. Luke , as having been written under the authority of St. Paul. See Prolegg. to St. Luke’s Gospel in Vol. I. § iv. 6, note),  in which (‘cujus annuntiandi munere defungens,’ Beza: see reff.)  I suffer hardship (see 2Ti 2:3 )  even unto (consult Ellic.’s note and his references on μέχρι )  chains (see ch. 2Ti 1:16 )  as a malefactor (‘ κακοπαθῶ , κακοῦργος malum passionis, ut si præcessisset malum actionis,’ Bengel),  but the word of God is not bound ( δεσμοῦνται μὲν αἱ χεῖρες , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ ἡ γλῶττα , Chrys.: similarly Thdrt. But we shall better, though this reference to himself is not precluded (cf. ch. 2 Timothy 4:17 ; Act 28:31 ), enlarge the words to that wider acceptation, in which he rejoices, Philippians 1:18 . As regarded himself, the word of God  might be said to be bound, inasmuch as he was prevented from the free proclamation of it: his person was not free, though his tongue and pen were. This more general reference Chrys. himself seems elsewhere to admit (as cited in Heydenr.): ὁ διδάσκαλος ἐδέδετο καὶ ὁ λόγος ἐπέτετο · ἐκεῖνος τὸ δεσμωτήριον ᾤκει , καὶ ἡ διδασκαλία πτερωθεῖσα πανταχόσε τῆς οἰκουμένης ἔτρεχε . The purpose of adding this seems to be, to remind Timotheus, that  his sufferings and imprisonment had in no way weakened the power of the Gospel, or loosened the ties by which he (Timotheus) was bound to the service of it: hardly as Chrys.: εἰ ἡμεῖς δεδεμένοι κηρύττομεν , πολλῷ μᾶλλον ὑμᾶς τοὺς λελυμένους τοῦτο ποιεῖν χρή ).