 15 .] The connexion is close: by averting them from vain and unprofitable things, approve thine own work, so that it may stand in the day of the Lord.  Strive (reff.)  to present thyself (emphatic, as distinguished from those alluded to in the preceding verse)  to God approved (reff.: tested by trial, and found to have stood the test. Not to be joined with ἐργάτην , as Mack),  a workman (a general word, of any kind of labourer, used (see reff.) of  teachers perhaps from the parable in Matthew 20:0 )  unshamed (by his work being found unworthy: cf. Philippians 1:20 , ἐν οὐδενὶ αἰσχυνθήσομαι , and 1 Corinthians 4:4 ; “cui tua ipsius conscientia nullum pudorem incutiat.” Beng. Kypke quotes from Jos. Antt. xviii. 9 [it should be xviii. 7. 1, see Moulton’s Winer, p. 296, note 1], μηδὲ δευτερεύειν ἀνεπαίσχυντον ἡγοῦ , ‘neque credas id pudore vacare, si secundum teneas locum.’ Chrys., al., would take the word actively, ‘  not being ashamed of his work ,’ τουτέστι , μηδὲν ὅλως αἰσχύνου πράττειν τῶν εἰς εὐσέβειαν ἡκόντων , κἂν δουλεῦσαι δέῃ , κἂν ὁτιοῦν παθεῖν , Chrys.: and so Agapetus, in Wetst., παρ ʼ ἄλλῳ εὑρεθέντα μηδαμῶς παρορᾷ , ἀλλὰ μανθάνει μὲν ἀνεπαισχύντως : but the above seems more according to the context. The opposite to ἐργ . ἀνεπαίσχυντος is ἐργάτης δόλιος , 2Co 11:13 ),  rightly administering (the  meaning of ὀρθοτομέω is very variously derived and explained, ‘recte secare’ being unquestionably the  rendering . (1) Melanchthon, Beza, Grot., al., suppose the meaning deduced from the  right division of the victims , Leviticus 1:6 ff.: (2) Vitringa (de Synagog. p. 714, De W.), Calv., al., from the  cutting and distributing of bread by the steward or father of a household: ‘ac si pater alendis filiis panem in frusta secando distribueret.’ (3) Pricæus, ‘a  lapicidis , quos melius ἐργάτας vocaveris quam victimarios illos. Eurip. de Neptuno Trojam ædificante, λαΐνους πύργους πέριξ ὀρθοῖς ἔτεμνε κανόσιν ,’ Apuleius, ‘  non , inquit,  e monte meo afferam lapidem directim cœsum , i.e. ὀρθοτετμημένον . Glossarium,  directum , κατὰ κανόνα ὀρθωθέν :’ (4) Thdrt. ( ἐπαινοῦμεν τῶν γεωργῶν τοὺς εὐθείας τὰς αὔλακας ἀνατέμνοντας ), Lamb-Bos, al., from  plowers , who are said τέμνειν τὴν γῆν , σχίζειν and ἐπισχίζειν ἀρούρας : (5) Most Commentators, from the more general form of the last explanation, the  cutting a  way or a  road : as ‘ καινοτομεῖν , novam viam secare, nova via incedere,’ so ‘ ὀρθοτομεῖν , rectam viam secare,’ but here used transitively, the λόγος τῆς ἀληθείας being itself the ὁδός : so in Proverbs 11:5 , δικαιοσύνη ἀμώμους ὀρθοτομεῖ ὁδούς , and Eurip. Rhes. 422, εὐθεῖαν λόγων τέμνων κέλευθον : Galatians 2:14 , ὀρθοποδεῖν πρὸς τὴν ἀλήθειαν τοῦ εὐαγγελίου . So De W.: but Huther objects, and I think with reason, that in all these places the idea of a  way is expressly introduced, and that without such expression we cannot supply the idea in λόγον . (6) Huther’s own view, that, the original meaning being ‘rightly to divide,’ the idea of τέμνειν was gradually lost, as in καινοτομεῖν , so that the word came to signify ‘to manage rightly,’ ‘to treat truthfully without falsifying’, seems to approach the nearest to the requirements of the context: the opposite being, as he observes, καπηλεύειν τὸν λόγον τοῦ θεοῦ , 2 Corinthians 2:17 . (7) The meaning given by Chrys. and Œc. τέμνε τὰ νόθα , καὶ τὰ τοιαῦτα μετὰ πολλῆς τῆς σφοδρότητος ἐφίστασο καὶ ἔκκοπτε , does not seem to belong to the word. (8) It is plain that the patristic usages of it, as e.g. in the Clementine Constt. vii. 33 (Grot.) ὀρθοτομοῦντας ἐν τοῖς κυρίου δόγμασι , Clem. Alex., Strom. vii. 16 (104), p. 896 P., τὴν ἀποστολικὴν καὶ ἐκκλησιαστικὰν ὀρθοτομίαν τῶν δογμάτων , Greg.-Naz. apol. fugæ, pp. 23, 28 (Kypke, from Fuller), opposing to ὀρθοτομεῖν , κακῶς ὁδεύειν , have  sprung from this passage , and cannot be cited as precedents, only as interpretations)  the word of the (the art. seems here better expressed: cf. 2Ti 2:18 below, and the usage throughout these Epistles, e.g. 1 Timothy 3:15 ; 1 Timothy 4:3 ; 1 Timothy 6:5 ; ch. 2Ti 3:8 ; 2 Timothy 4:4 ; Tit 1:14 )  truth .