 1 .]  Thou therefore ( οὖν follows, primarily on his own example just propounded (cf. συγκακοπάθησον below), and secondarily on that of Onesiphorus, in contrast to those who had been ashamed of and deserted him),  my child, be strengthened (reff. The  pres . indicates an abiding state, not a mere insulated act, as παράθου below. The verb is passive, not middle: see reff., and Fritzsche on Rom 4:20 )  in the grace which is in Christ Jesus ( τουτέστι διὰ τῆς χάριτος τοῦ χριστοῦ , Chrys. But more than that: the grace of Christ, the empowering influence in the Christian life, being necessary for its whole course and progress, is regarded as the  element in which it is lived: cf. αὐξάνετε ἐν χάριτι , 2 Pet. ult. χάρις must not be taken, with Ambr., Calov., Mack, al., for his  ministerial office ),  and the things which thou heardest from me with many witnesses (i.e. with the intervention, or (as Conyb.) attestation of many witnesses:  διὰ (reff.) imports the agency of the witnesses as contributing to the whole matter treated of: so διὰ πολλῶν δακρύων , and διὰ προφητείας , 1 Timothy 4:14 . These witnesses are not, as Chrys., Thdrt., the congregations whom Timotheus had heard the Apostle teaching ( ἅπερ ἤκουσάς μου πολλοὺς διδάσκοντος , Thdrt.), or as Clem. Alex. in Œc., testimonies from the law and prophets: nor as Heydenr., the other Apostles: much less, as he gives in another alternative, the Christian martyrs: but  the presbyters and others present at his ordination , cf. 1 Timothy 4:14 ; 1 Timothy 6:12 ; and ch. 2 Timothy 1:6 . No word such as μαρτυρούμενα or βεβαιούμενα (Heydenr.) need be supplied),  these deliver in trust (cf. παραθήκην above, ch. 2Ti 1:14 )  to faithful men (i.e. not merely ‘believers,’ but ‘trustworthy men,’ men who τὴν καλὴν παραθήκην φυλάξονται )  such as shall be (not merely ‘are,’ but ‘shall be’ give every hope of turning out)  able to teach them to (so I take  ἑτέρους , not as a first, but as a second accusative after διδάξαι , the first being included in ταῦτα above)  others also (  καί carries the mind on to a further step of the same process implying ‘in their turn.’ These ἕτεροι would be  other trustworthy men like themselves). The connexion of this verse with the foregoing and the following has been questioned. I believe it to be this: ‘The true keeping of the deposit entrusted to thee will involve thy handing it on unimpaired to others, who may in their turn hand it on again. But in order to this, thou must be strong in grace thou must be a fellow-sufferer with me in hardships thou must strive lawfully thou must not be entangled with this life’s matters.’ So that 2Ti 2:2 serves to prepare him to hear of the necessity of endurance and faithful adhesion to his duty as a Christian soldier, considering that he has his deposit not only to keep, but to deliver down unimpaired. It is obviously a perversion of the sense to regard this verse us referring (as Bengel, ‘ παράθου , antequam istine ad me proticiscare’) merely to his journey to Rome that  during that time he should, &c.: the ἔσονται , and the very contemplation of a similar step on the part of these men at a future time, are against such a supposition.
	Mack constructs a long argument out of this verse to shew that there are  two sources of Christian instruction in the Church, written teaching and oral, and ends with affirming that those who neglect the latter for the former, have always shewn that they in reality set up their own opinion above all teaching. But he forgets that these two methods of teaching are in fact but one and the same.  Scripture has been  God’s way of  fixing tradition , and rendering it trustworthy at any distance of time; of obviating the very danger which in this Epistle we see so imminent, viz. of one of those teachers, who were links in this chain of transmission, becoming inefficient and transmitting it inadequately. This very Epistle is therefore a warning to us not to trust oral tradition, seeing that it was so dependent on men, and to accept no way of conserving it but that which God’s providence has pointed out to us in the canonical books of Scripture.