 23 .]  But (contrast again to the hypothesis of the contrary of the last exhortation)  foolish ( Tit 3:9 )  and undisciplined ( ἀπαίδευτος can hardly be wrested from its proper sense and made to mean ‘unprofitable πρὸς παιδείαν ,’ but, as in reff., must mean  lacking παιδεία , shewing want of wholesome discipline. Grot. limits it too narrowly, when he says, “Intelligit hic Paulus quæstiones immodestas: nam et Græci pro ἀκόλαστον dicunt ἀπαίδευτον (sine disciplina): quia idem est κολάζειν et παιδεύειν ”)  questionings decline (reff.),  being aware that they gender strifes (reff.):  but (contrast to the fact of μάχαι )  the (better than  a , as De W. The meaning being much the same, and  δοῦλον in the emphatic place representing τὸν δοῦλον , the definite art., in rendering, gives the emphasis, and points out the individual servant, better than the indefinite)  servant of the Lord (Jesus; see 1 Corinthians 7:22 . It is evident from what follows, that the servant of the Lord here, in the Apostle’s view, is not so much every true Christian, however applicable such a maxim may be to him also, but the minister of Christ, as Timotheus was: cf. διδακτικόν , &c. below)  must not strive (the argument is in the form of an enthymeme: ‘propositionem ab experientia manifestam relinquit. Assumptio vero tacitam sui probationem includit, eamque hujusmodi: servum oportet imitari Dominum suum.’ Estius),  but be gentle (ref.)  towards all, apt to teach (ref.: so E. V. well: for, as Bengel, ‘hoc non solum soliditatem et facilitatem in docendo, sed vel maxime patientiam et assiduitatem significat.’ In fact these latter must be, on account of the contrast which the Apostle is bringing out, regarded as prominent here),  patient of wrong (so Conyb., and perhaps we can hardly find a better expression, though ‘wrong’ does not by any means cover the meaning of the κακόν : ‘long-suffering’ would be unobjectionable, were it not that we have μακρόθυμος , to which that word is already appropriated. Plutarch, Coriolan. c. 15, says, that he did not repress his temper, οὐδὲ τὴν ἐρημίᾳ ξύνοικον , ὡς Πλάτων ἔλεγεν , αὐθάδειαν εἰδὼς ὅτι δεῖ μάλιστα διαφεύγειν ἐπιχειροῦντα πράγμασι κοινοῖς καὶ ἀνθρώποις ὁμιλεῖν , καὶ  γενέσθαι τῆς πολλὰ γελωμένης ὑπ ʼ ἐνίων ἀνεξικακίας ἐραστήν ),  in meekness correcting (not ‘  instructing ,’ see reff., and note on ἀπαιδεύτους , 2Ti 2:23 )  those who oppose themselves (better than as Ambrst., ‘eos qui diversa sentiunt:’ to take the general meaning of διατίθεσθαι , satisfies the context better, than to supply τὸννοῦν . The Vulg., ‘eos qui resistunt veritati,’ particularizes too much in another way),  if at any time (literally, ‘  lest at any time :’ but  μήποτε in later Greek sometimes loses this aversative meaning and is almost equivalent to εἴποτε . Cf. Viger, p. 457, where the annotator says of μήποτε , ‘vocula tironibus sæpissime crucem figens, cum significat  fortasse , vel  si quando ,’ and he then cites this passage. The account to be given of the usage is that, from μή being commonly used after verbs of fearing, &c., then after verbs expressing anxiety of any kind ( φροντίζω , μὴ … Xen.: σκοπῶ , μὴ … Plato: ὑποπτεύειν , μὴ … Xen.: αἰσχύνομαι , μὴ … Plato) its proper aversative force by degrees became forgotten, and thus it, and words compounded with it, were used in later Greek in sentences where no such force can be intended. De W. refers to Kypke for examples of this usage from Plut. and Athenæus: but Kypke does not notice the word here at all)  God may give them repentance (because their consciences were impure (see above on 2Ti 2:22 ) and lives evil. Cf. Ellic.’s remarks on μετάν .)  in order to the knowledge of (  the )  truth (see note, 1Ti 2:4 ),  and they may awake sober (from their moral and spiritual intoxication: so ἐκνήφ ., in ref. 1 Cor., and this same word in Jos.: the θρῆνοι there, as the ensnarement by the devil here, being regarded as a kind of intoxication. There is no one word in English which will express  ἀνανήψαι : Conyb. has paraphrased it by ‘  escape, restored to soberness ’ (‘  return to soberness ,’ Ellic.): perhaps the E. V., ‘  recover themselves ,’ is as near an approach to the meaning as we can get. We have the word used literally by Plutarch, Camillus, c. 23: ὁ Κάμιλλος … περὶ μέσας τὰς νύκτας προσέμιξε τῷ χάρακι … ἐκταράττων ἀνθρώπους κακῶς ὑπὸ μέθης κ . μόλις ἐκ τῶν ὕπνων ἀναφέροντας πρὸς τὸν θόρυβον . ὀλίγοι μὲν οὖν  ἀνανήψαντες ἐν τῷ φόβῳ κ . διασκευασάμενοι , τοὺς περὶ τὸν Κάμιλλον ὑπέστησαν .… Sir Thomas North renders it, ‘There were some notwithstanding did  bustle up at the sudden noise.’ See also examples in Wetst.)  out of the snare of the devil (gen. subj., ‘the snare which the devil laid for them.’ There is properly no confusion of metaphor, the idea being that these persons have in a state of intoxication been entrapped, and are enabled, at their awaking sober, to escape. But the construction is elliptic, ἀνανήψωσιν ἐκ = ἐκφύγωσιν ἀνανήψαντες ἐκ ),  having been (during their spiritual μέθη )  taken captive by him unto (for the fulfilment of, in pursuance of)  the will of Him (viz. God: that Other, indicated by  ἐκείνου . Thus I am now persuaded the words must be rendered: αὐτοῦ , referring to the devil, and it being signified that the taking captive of these men by him only takes place as far as God permits; according to His will. Rendering it thus, as do Aret., Estius, and Ellicott, I do not hold the other view, which makes αὐτοῦ and ἐκείνου both refer to the devil, to be untenable. I therefore give my note much as it stood before, that the student may have both sides before him. The difficulty is of course to determine whether the pronouns are used of the same person, or of different persons. From the Greek expositors downwards, some have held a very different rendering of the words from either of those here indicated: Thl. e.g., ἐν πλάνῃ , φησί , νήψονται , ἀλλὰ ζωγρηθέντες ὑπὸ θεοῦ εἰς τὸ ἐκείνου θέλημα , τουτέστι τοῦ θεοῦ , ἴσως ἀνανήψουσιν ἀπὸ τῶν ὑδάτων τῆς πλάνης . This, it is true, does not get rid of the difficulty respecting the pronouns, but it pointed a way towards doing so: and thus Wetst., Bengel, and Mack, understand  αὐτοῦ to apply to the δοῦλος κυρίου ,  ἐκείνου to God ‘  taken prisoners by God’s servant according to His will .’ (Bengel however, as Beza, Grot., joins εἰς τὸ ἐκ . θέλ . with ἀνανήψωσιν , which is unnatural, leaving ἐζωγρ . ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ standing alone.) The great objection to this is, the exceeding confusion which it introduces into the figure, in representing men who are just recovering their sense and liberty, as ἐζωγρημένοι , and in applying that participle, occurring as it does just after the mention of παγίς , not to that snare, but to another which does not appear at all. Aret. and Estius proposed the rendering given above; ‘taken captive by the devil according to God’s will,’ i.e. as Est., ‘quamdiu Deus voluerit, cujus voluntati nec diabolus resistere potest.’ De W. charges this with rendering  εἰς as if it were κατά , but the charge is not just: for the permitting the devil to hold them captive, on this view, would be strictly εἰς , ‘in pursuance of,’ ‘so as to follow,’ God’s purpose. The real objection perhaps is, that it introduces a new and foreign element, viz. the fact that this capture is overruled by God of which matter there is here no question. There is no real difficulty whatever in the application of αὐτοῦ and ἐκείνου to the same person. Kühner, § 629, anm. 3, gives from Plato, Cratyl. p. 430, δεῖξαι αὐτῷ ἂν μὲν τύχῃ , ἐκείνου εἰκόνα , ἂν δὲ τύχῃ , γυναικός (where the reason for the use of ἐκείνου , viz. to emphasize the pronoun, is precisely as here: see below): from Lysias, c. Eratosth. p. 429, ἕως ὁ λεγόμενος ὑπ ʼ ἐκείνου καιρὸς ἐπιμελῶς ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ ἐτηρήθη (which cases of ἐκεῖνος followed by αὐτός must not be dismissed, as Ellic., as inapplicable: they shew at all events that there was no absolute objection to using the two pronouns of the same person. See below). But he does not give an account of the idiom, which seems to be this: ἐκεῖνος , from its very meaning, always carries somewhat of emphasis with it; it is therefore unfit for mere reflexive or unemphatic use, and accordingly when the subject pointed out by ἐκεῖνος occurs in such unemphatic position, ἐκεῖνος is replaced by αὐτός . On the other hand, where emphasis is required, ἐκεῖνος is repeated: e.g. Soph. Aj. 1039, κεῖνος τὰ κείνου στεργέτω , κἀγὼτάδε . And this emphatic or unemphatic use is not determined by priority of order, but by logical considerations. So here in ἐζωγρημένοι ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , the αὐτοῦ is the mere reflex of διαβόλου which has just occurred, whereas in εἰς τὸ ἐκεινου θέλημα , the ἐκείνου would, according to this rendering, bring out and emphasize the danger and degradation of these persons, who had been, in their spiritual μέθη , just taken captive at the pleasure of ἐκεῖνος , their mortal foe. Still, it now seems to me it is better to adhere to the common meaning of the two pronouns, even though it should seem to introduce a new idea. The novelty however may be somewhat removed by remembering that God’s sovereign power as the giver of repentance was already before the Apostle’s mind).