In whom ye also trusted - This stands in contrast with those who had “first” embraced the gospel.Heard the word of truth - The gospel; called the “word” or message of truth, the word of God, etc. See Romans 10:17. The phrase “the word of truth” means “the true word or message.” It was a message unmixed with Jewish traditions or Gentile philosophy.The gospel of your salvation - The gospel bringing salvation to you.In whom also - In the Lord Jesus. A little different translation of this verse will convey more clearly its meaning. “In whom also, ye, having heard the word of truth, (the gospel of your salvation,) in whom having also believed, ye were sealed,” etc. The sealing was the result of believing, and that was the result of hearing the gospel; compare Romans 10:14-15.Ye were sealed - On the meaning of the word “seal,” see the notes at John 3:33; John 6:27, note. On the phrase “ye were sealed,” see the notes on 2 Corinthians 1:22.With that Holy Spirit of promise - With the Holy Spirit that was promised; see John 16:7-11, John 16:13; John 15:26; John 14:16-17. It is not improbable, I think, that the apostle here refers particularly to the occurrence of which we have a record in Acts 19:1-6. Paul, it is there said, having passed through the upper provinces of Asia Minor, came to Ephesus. He found certain persons who were the disciples of John, and he asked them if they had received the Holy Spirit since they “believed,” Ephesians 1:2. They replied that they had not heard whether there was any Holy Spirit, and that they had been baptized unto John’s baptism. Paul taught them the true nature of the baptism of John; explained to them the Christian system; and they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus, and “the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.” They were thus sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, “after they had believed” Ephesians 1:13; they had the full evidence of the favor of God in the descent of the promised Holy Spirit, and in his miraculous influences. If this be the true interpretation, it constitutes a striking coincidence between the Epistle and the Acts , of such a nature as constitute the arguments in Paley’s “Horae Paulinae” (though he has not referred to this), which shows that the Epistle was not forged. The circumstance is such that it would not have been alluded to in this manner by one who should forge the Epistle; and the mention of it in the Epistle is so slight, that no one, from the account there, would think of forging the account in the Acts . The coincidence is just such as would occur on the supposition that the transaction actually occurred, and that both the Acts and the Epistle are genuine. At the same time, there is a sealing of the Holy Spirit which is common to all Christians; see the notes referred to on 2 Corinthians 1:22.