Galatians 2:4.  And that  (happened, or, was done)  on account of the false brethren. The words ‘and that’ (δέ  =nempe)   are explanatory, and assign the reason why Titus was not compelled by the chief Apostles to be circumcised. It explains and qualifies the general assertion (Galatians 2:3), and intimates that under other circumstances, if no principles had been involved, and if the false brethren had not made it a party issue, the Jewish Apostles might have demanded or at least recommended circumcision, as an act of prudence, or for peace sake. Paul would have respected the scruples of  weak  brethren (comp. Romans 14:15); while he was inflexible in resisting the demands of  false  brethren. He himself, after the apostolic council, circumcised Timothy (Acts 16:3) without any inconsistency (comp. 1 Corinthians 7:18). For he did this from his own impulse, and for the purpose of making Timothy more useful, without compromising the principle of justification by faith. It must be remembered, also, that Timothy was a Jew from his mother’s side, and that therefore the Jews had a certain right to claim him, while Titus was a pure Gentile by birth.
	Others take Galatians 2:4 as an independent, though grammatically irregular sentence, and supplement it in this way: ‘But (δέ in the adversative sense) on account of the false brethren (  i.e., to appease the Judaizers)  the leading Apostles  RECOMMENDED  the circumcision of Titus as a charitable concession to their prejudices  to whom, however (  i.e.,   the false brethren), we  (Paul and Barnabas)  did not yield for a single hour.’ This would imply a slight censure of the weakness of the other Apostles, Paul was, we must suppose in this case, distracted between the duty of frankness and the duty of reserve; he wished to maintain his independence without compromising his colleagues. Hence the broken and obscure character of the sentence.
	 Foisted in,  brought in by unfair means, like traitors and spies. These Judaizers were formerly Pharisees (Acts 15:5), and were so still in spirit, although they professed Christianity by the mouth and were baptized. From these  false  brethren who were intolerant Judaizers of the malignant type and bitter haters of freedom, we should carefully distinguish the  weak  brethren whom Paul treats with great indulgence (Romans 14:1; Romans 15:1-3).
	 To spy out,  or to act as spies on our freedom from the bondage of the law, and to find out how far we observed the Mosaic ordinances or violated them.
	 In Christ Jesus,  in living union with him who is   the end and fulfilment of the law (Romans 10:4). This is the positive side of freedom. Out of Christ there is no true freedom, but slavery of sin (comp. Galatians 5:1-12; John 8:32-36).
	