Galatians 2:2.  By revelation.  In consequence of a divine monition such as he often experienced (comp. Acts 16:6-7; Acts 19:21; Acts 20:22-23; Acts 22:17; Acts 27:23; 2 Corinthians 12:1). This was the inward, personal motive. Luke in Acts 15:2 omits this, but mentions the external, or public occasion, namely, the appointment by the church of Antioch, which sent him and Barnabas as delegates to represent the interests of Gentile Christianity. This appointment may have been either prompted or confirmed by the inner revelation. So Peter, according to Acts 10:0, was induced both by a vision and by the messengers of Cornelius, to go to Cæsarea.
	 And communicated to them, or laid before them,  i.e., the Christians at Jerusalem (Galatians 2:1), the whole congregation. This implies a public transaction in open council, which is described in the Acts. Paul confines himself to an account of the private and personal agreement with the leading Apostles, because the decision and pastoral letter of the council (Acts 15:22 ff.) had already been communicated by him to his churches (Acts 16:4). The decree was a compromise intended for a special emergency, and not for universal and permanent use. But it was no doubt interpreted by the Judaizing teachers in a sense contrary to the meaning of the chief Apostles, and hence the importance of referring to their personal understanding with Paul.
	 Privately, or apart, in private conference, as distinct from the discussion in open council. Such private conferences are always held in connection with public assemblies, for the purpose of preparing and maturing business for final action. Bengel: ‘All were not capable of comprehending it’
	 Those of chief reputation, the leading men who enjoyed the greatest authority among the Jewish Christians, the ‘pillar’ Apostles, namely James, Peter, and John (Galatians 2:9). Similar is the expression, ‘the very chiefest Apostles’ (2 Corinthians 11:5; 2 Corinthians 12:11). ‘The men of chief reputation’ is a term of honor, but as repeated in Galatians 2:6; Galatians 2:9 in connection with ‘something,’ and ‘pillars,’ it seems to imply a slight tint of irony. The blame is, of course, not intended for the Apostles themselves, whose testimony in his favor it is his purpose here to relate, and whom he always treated with fraternal esteem and love, but for the Judaizers who unduly exalted them above Paul. He feels himself equal to them before men, and  yet  in his deep humility before God he calls himself the least of the Apostles and unworthy of the high name, because he persecuted the church of God (1 Corinthians 15:9). See Excursus.
	 Lest perchance, etc., lest my apostolic labors past and present should be fruitless, not in themselves nor in the judgment of Paul, but in the judgment of the Jewish Christians. The non-recognition of the Gentile churches by the mother church of Jerusalem would have interfered also with the progress of his mission and unsettled many of his weaker converts, as the example of the Galatians shows. The expression ‘  run ’ is taken from the image of a race, to which the Christian life is frequently compared (Philippians 2:16; 2 Timothy 4:7; 1 Corinthians 7:24 f.; Galatians 5:7; Hebrews 12:1). Bengel: ‘I should run with the swift victory of the gospel.’
	