Galatians 2:9.  Perceiving  (or  knowing)  indicates the conviction arrived at in consequence of the successful labors of Paul, as the divine attestation of his apostleship.
	 The grace  implies here the call, the spiritual outfit and the success, all of which Paul regards as a free gift of God in Christ, as he says, 1 Corinthians 15:10: ‘By the grace of God I am what I am; and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all; yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.’
	 James  stands here first according to the best manuscripts. It is the brother of the Lord, mentioned Galatians 1:19. Although not one of the Twelve, he enjoyed Apostolic authority. (There is no good reason for understanding here, with Dr. Wieseler, the younger Apostle of that name, James the son of Alphæus, who held no very prominent rank. The older James, the son of Zebedee, suffered martyrdom in 44, six years before the Council of Jerusalem.) In the Jewish Church at large Peter occupied the most prominent rank, and is therefore named in Galatians 2:7-8; but in Jerusalem of which Paul speaks here, James stood at the head of the congregation (comp. Acts 12:17; Acts 15:11; Acts 21:18), and he probably presided also over the Apostolical Council, or at all events exerted the controlling influence there and led to the final decision, Acts 15:13 ff.
	 Pillars,   i.e., leading men, chief champions of the church, which is often represented as a temple, 1Cor. 5:16; Eph 2:21 ; 1 Timothy 3:15; Revelation 3:12. But the expression is used in the same sense in all languages without metaphor, and especially among the Jews of the great teachers of the law. Paul does not deny his colleagues to be the leading Apostles of the Jews; they were so still in fact, as he was the pillar of the Gentile Church; but the Judaizers used the expression no doubt in an envious party sense and with the view to depreciate Paul (comp. Galatians 2:6 note).
	 The right hands of fellowship.  A pledge of brotherhood and fidelity. This fact, based as it was, on sincere esteem and love, refutes the conclusion of some modern critics that there was a serious discord between Paul and the older Apostles. They differed widely, no doubt, in talent, temperament, and field of labor, but they agreed in spirit and principle; they were servants to the same Lord and organs of the same grace, and as they sought not their own glory, there was no room for envy and jealousy.
	 That we should   (go, or,  be Apostles, or,  preach the gospel)  to the Gentiles and they to the circumcision,   i.e.,  the Jews. Division of the field of labor, with one reservation, mentioned in Galatians 2:10, and faithfully kept. 