8, 9. Referring to the imminent
	risk of life which he ran in Ephesus ( :-) when the whole multitude were wrought up to fury by
	Demetrius, on the plea of Paul and his associates having assailed the
	religion of Diana of Ephesus. The words ( :-), "we had the sentence of death in ourselves,"
	mean, that he looked upon himself as a man condemned to die
	[PALEY]. ALFORD
	thinks the danger at Ephesus was comparatively so slight that it
	cannot be supposed to be the subject of reference here, without
	exposing the apostle to a charge of cowardice, very unlike his
	fearless character; hence, he supposes Paul refers to some deadly
	sickness which he had suffered under (2 Corinthians 1:9;
	2 Corinthians 1:10). But there is little
	doubt that, had Paul been found by the mob in the excitement, he
	would have been torn in pieces; and probably, besides what Luke in
	Acts records, there were other dangers of an equally distressing
	kind, such as, "lyings in wait of the Jews" (2 Corinthians 1:10- :), his ceaseless foes. They, doubtless, had incited the
	multitude at Ephesus (Acts 19:9),
	and were the chief of the "many adversaries" and "[wild]
	beasts," which he had to fight with there (1 Corinthians 15:32;
	1 Corinthians 16:9). His weak state of
	health at the time combined with all this to make him regard himself
	as all but dead (2 Corinthians 11:29;
	2 Corinthians 12:10). What makes my
	supposition probable is, that the very cause of his not having
	visited Corinth directly as he had intended, and for which he
	proceeds to apologize (2 Corinthians 12:10- :), was, that there might be time to see whether the evils
	arising there not only from Greek, but from Jewish disturbers
	of the Church (2 Corinthians 11:29),
	would be checked by his first Epistle; there not being fully so was
	what entailed on him the need of writing this second Epistle. His not
	specifying this here expressly is just what we might expect in
	the outset of this letter; towards the close, when he had won their
	favorable hearing by a kindly and firm tone, he gives a more distinct
	reference to Jewish agitators (2 Corinthians 11:29- :). 
	above strength—that is,
	ordinary, natural powers of endurance. 
	despaired—as far as
	human help or hope from man was concerned. But in respect to help
	from God we were "not in despair" (2 Corinthians 11:29- :).