 10 .] Aristarchus was a Thessalonian ( Act 20:4 ), first mentioned Acts 19:29 , as dragged into the theatre at Ephesus during the tumult, together with Gaius, both being συνέκδημοι Παύλου . He accompanied Paul to Asia (ib. Act 22:4 ), and was with him in the voyage to Rome ( Act 27:2 ). In Philemon 1:24 , he sends greeting, with Marcus, Demas, and Lucas, as here. On  συναιχμάλωτος , Meyer (after Fritzsche, Rom. vol. i. prolegg. p. xxi) suggests an idea, which may without any straining of probability be adopted, and which would explain why Aristarchus is here συναιχμ ., and in Philemon 1:24 , συνεργός , whereas Epaphras is here, ch. Colossians 1:7 , merely a σύνδουλος , and in Philemon 1:23 a συναιχμάλωτος . His view is, that the Apostle’s friends may have voluntarily shared his imprisonment by turns: and that Aristarchus may have been his fellow-prisoner when he wrote this Epistle, Epaphras when he wrote that to Philemon. συναιχμάλωτος belongs to the same image of  warfare as συνστρατιώτης , Philippians 2:25 ; Philemon 1:2 .
	 Μάρκος ] can hardly be other than John Mark, cf. Acts 12:12 ; Acts 12:25 , who accompanied Paul and Barnabas in part of their first missionary journey, and because he turned back from their at Perga (ib. Acts 13:13 ; Act 15:38 ), was the subject of dispute between them on their second journey. That he was also the Evangelist, is matter of pure tradition, but not therefore to be rejected.
	 ἀνεψιός ] not ‘  sister’s son :’ this rendering has arisen from mistaking the definition given by Hesych., ἀνεψιοί , ἀδελφῶν υἱοί , meaning that ἀνεψιοί are  sons of brothers , i.e.  cousins . (Ellic. in notes on his translation of the Epistle, suggests that ‘  sister’s-son ’ may after all be no mistake, but an archaism to express, as the German  Geschwisterkind , a  cousin .) “Pollux dicit, filios filiasque fratrum et sororum, dici ἀνεψιούς , ex his prognatos ἀνεψιαδοῦς , ἀνεψιαδάς , tertio gradu ἐξανεψιούς , ἐξανεψιάς a Menandro dici.” Lobeck on Phrynichus, p. 306. This is decisively shewn in Herod. vii. 5, Μαρδόνιος … ὃς ἦν Ξέρξῃ μὲν ἀνεψιός , Δαρείου δὲ ἀδελφεῆς πάϊς . It is also used in a wider sense (see Hom. Il. α . 464): but there is no need to depart here from the strict meaning.
	 περὶ οὗ  … ] What these commands were, must be left in entire uncertainty. They had been sent previous to the writing of our Epistle ( ἐλάβετε ): but from, or by whom, we know not. They concerned Marcus, not Barnabas (as Thl., al.): and one can hardly help connecting them, associated as they are with ἐὰν ἔλθῃ , δέξασθε αὐτόυ , with the dispute of Acts 15:38 . It is very possible, that in consequence of the rejection of John Mark on that occasion by St. Paul, the Pauline portion of the churches may have looked upon him with suspicion.