Rejoicing - Nothing to most people would seem more disgraceful than a public whipping. It is a punishment inflicted usually not so much because it gives “pain,” as because it is esteemed to be attended with disgrace. The Jewish rulers doubtless desired that the apostles might be so affected with the sense of this disgrace as to be unwilling to appear again in public, or to preach the gospel anymore. Yet in this they were disappointed. The effect was just the reverse. If it be asked why they rejoiced in this manner, we may reply: (2)Because, by this, they had evidence that they were the friends and followers of Christ. It was clear they were engaged in the same cause that he was. They were enduring the same sufferings, and striving to advance the same interests. As they loved the “cause,” they would rejoice in enduring even the shame and sufferings which the cause, of necessity, involved. The kingdom of the Redeemer was an object so transcendently important, that for it they were willing to endure all the afflictions and disgrace which it might involve. (3)They had been told to “expect” this, and they now rejoiced that they had This evidence that they were engaged in the cause of truth. Matthew 5:11-12; Matthew 10:17, Matthew 10:22; 2 Corinthians 12:10; Philippians 1:29; James 1:2. (6)The apostles were engaged in a cause of innocence, truth, and benevolence. They had “done” nothing of which to be ashamed; and they rejoiced, therefore, in a conscience void of offence, and in the consciousness of integrity and benevolence. When other people “disgrace” themselves by harsh, or vile, or opprobrious language or conduct toward “us,” we should not feel that the disgrace belongs to “us.” It is “theirs”; and we should not be ashamed or distressed, though their rage should fall on us. See 1 Peter 4:14-16.Counted worthy - Esteemed to be deserving. That is, esteemed “fit” for it “by the Sanhedrin.” It does not mean that “God” esteemed them worthy, but that the Jewish council judged them fit to suffer shame in this cause. They evinced so much zeal and determination of purpose that they were judged fit objects to be treated as the Lord Jesus had himself been.To suffer shame - To be “dishonored” or “disgraced” in the estimation of the Jewish rulers. The “particular” disgrace to which reference is made here was “whipping.” To various other kinds of shame they were also exposed. They were persecuted, reviled, and finally put to death. Here we may remark that a profession of the Christian religion has been in all ages esteemed by many to be a “disgrace.” The “reasons” are:For his name - For attachment to him.