Then the high priest - Probably “Caiaphas.” Compare John 11:49. It seems from this place that he belonged to the sect of the Sadducees. It is certain that he had signalized himself by opposition to the Lord Jesus and to his cause constantly.Rose up - This expression is sometimes “redundant,” and at others it means simply to “begin” to do a thing, or to resolve to do it. Compare Luke 15:18.And all they that were with him - That is, all they that coincided with him in doctrine or opinion; or, in other words, that portion of the Sanhedrin that was composed of “Sadducees.” There was a strong party of Sadducees in the Sanhedrin; and perhaps at this time it was so strong a majority as to be able to control its decisions. Compare Acts 23:6.Which is the sect - The word translated “sect” here is that from which we have derived our word “heresy.” It means simply “sect” or “party,” and is not used in a bad sense as implying reproach, or even error. The idea which “we” attach to it of error, and of denying fundamental doctrines in religion, is one that does not occur in the New Testament.Sadducees - See the notes on Matthew 3:7. The main doctrine of this sect was the denial of the resurrection of the dead. The reason why “they” were particularly opposed to the apostles rather than the Pharisees was that the apostles dwelt much on the “resurrection of the Lord Jesus,” which, if true, completely overthrew their doctrine. All the converts, therefore, that were made to Christianity, tended to diminish their numbers and influence, and also to establish the belief of the “Pharisees” in the doctrine of the resurrection. So long, therefore, as the effect of the labors of the apostles was to establish one of the main doctrines of the “Pharisees,” and to confute the “Sadducees,” so long we may suppose that the “Pharisees” would either favor them or be silent; and so long the “Sadducees” would be opposed to them, and enraged against them. One sect will often see with composure the progress of another that it really hates, if it will humble a rival. Even opposition to the gospel will sometimes be silent provided the spread of religion will tend to humble and mortify those against whom we may be opposed.Were filled with indignation - Greek: “zeal.” The word denotes any kind of “fervor” or “warmth,” and may be applied to any warm or violent affection of the mind, either “envy, wrath, zeal,” or “love,” Acts 13:45; John 2:17; Romans 10:2; 2 Corinthians 7:7; 2 Corinthians 11:2. Here it probably “includes envy” and “wrath.” They were “envious” at the success of the apostles - at the number of converts that were made to a doctrine that they hated, and they were envious that the “Pharisees” were deriving such an accession of strength to their doctrine of the resurrection; and they were “indignant” that the apostles regarded so little their authority, and disobeyed the solemn injunction of the Sanhedrin. Compare Acts 4:18-21.