37-39. the last day, that great day
	of the feast—the eighth ( :-). It was a sabbath, the last feast day of the year, and
	distinguished by very remarkable ceremonies. "The generally
	joyous character of this feast broke out on this day into loud
	jubilation, particularly at the solemn moment when the priest, as was
	done on every day of this festival, brought forth, in golden vessels,
	water from the stream of Siloah, which flowed under the
	temple-mountain, and solemnly poured it upon the altar. Then the
	words of Isaiah 12:3 were sung,
	With joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of Salvation,
	and thus the symbolical reference of this act, intimated in Isaiah 12:3- :, was expressed" [OLSHAUSEN].
	So ecstatic was the joy with which this ceremony was
	performed—accompanied with sound of trumpets—that it used to be
	said, "Whoever had not witnessed it had never seen rejoicing at
	all" [LIGHTFOOT]. 
	Jesus stood—On this
	high occasion, then, He who had already drawn all eyes upon Him by
	His supernatural power and unrivalled teaching—"JESUS
	stood," probably in some elevated position. 
	and cried—as if making
	proclamation in the audience of all the people. 
	If any man thirst, let him
	come unto me, and drink!—What an offer! The deepest cravings of
	the human spirit are here, as in the Old Testament, expressed by the
	figure of "thirst," and the eternal satisfaction of
	them by "drinking." To the woman of Samaria He had
	said almost the same thing, and in the same terms (John 4:13;
	John 4:14). But what to her was
	simply affirmed to her as a fact, is here turned into a
	world-wide proclamation; and whereas there, the gift by
	Him of the living water is the most prominent idea—in contrast with
	her hesitation to give Him the perishable water of Jacob's well—here,
	the prominence is given to Himself as the Well spring of all
	satisfaction. He had in Galilee invited all the WEARY
	AND HEAVY-LADEN of the human family to come under His wing and
	they should find REST (John 4:14- :), which is just the same deep want, and the same profound
	relief of it, under another and equally grateful figure. He had in
	the synagogue of Capernaum (John 4:14- :) announced Himself, in every variety of form, as "the
	BREAD of Life," and
	as both able and authorized to appease the "HUNGER,"
	and quench the "THIRST,"
	of all that apply to Him. There is, and there can be, nothing beyond
	that here. But what was on all those occasions uttered in private, or
	addressed to a provincial audience, is here sounded forth in the
	streets of the great religious metropolis, and in language of
	surpassing majesty, simplicity, and grace. It is just Jehovah's
	ancient proclamation now sounding forth through human flesh, "HO,
	EVERY ONE THAT THIRSTETH, COME YE TO THE WATERS, AND HE THAT HATH NO
	MONEY!" c. (John 4:14- :). In this light we have but two alternatives either to say
	with Caiaphas of Him that uttered such words, "He is guilty
	of death," or falling down before Him to exclaim with
	Thomas, " MY LORD
	AND MY GOD!"