 4. ] The simple antithesis would have been, τοῦ μὲν γενομένου … ὄντος δὲ υἱοῦ θεοῦ κατὰ πνεῦμα , see 1 Timothy 3:16 . But (1) wonderful solemnity is given by dropping the particles, and taking up separately the human and divine nature of Christ, keeping ὁ υἱὸς αὐτοῦ as the great subject of both clauses, and thus making them, not contrasts to one another, but correlative parts of the same great whole. And (2) the Apostle, dwelling here on  patent facts , the announcements of prophecy, the history of the Lord’s Humanity, does not deal with the  essential subsistent Godhead of Christ , but with  that manifestation of it which the great fact of the Resurrection had made to men. Also (3) by amplifying πνεῦμα into πν .  ἁγιωσύνης , he characterizes the Spirit of Christ as one of absolute holiness, i.e. as  divine and  partaking of the Godhead : see below.
	 ὁρισθέντος ] “Multo plus dicit quam ἀφωρισμένος , Romans 1:1 ; nam ἀφορίζεται  unus e pluribus , ὁρίζεται  unicus quispiam .” Bengel. See reff. Nor does it = προορισθέντος , as vulg.  prœdestinatus , and as Irenæus (iii. 22. 1, p. 219) and Augustine de Prædest [1] Sanctorum, c. 15, vol. x. p. 982: “Prædestinatus est ergo Jesus, ut qui futurus erat secundum carnem filius David, esset tamen in virtute Filius Dei secundum Spiritum Sanctificationis: quia natus est de Spiritu Sancto et Virgine Maria.” But this is one of the places where Augustine has been misled by the Latin: the text speaks, not of the  fact of Christ’s  being the Son of God barely, but of the  proof of that fact by His Resurrection. Chrysostom has given the right meaning: τί οὖν ἔστιν  ὁρισθέντος  ; τοῦ δειχθέντος , ἀποφανθέντος , κριθέντος , ὁμολογηθέντος παρὰ τῆς ἁπάντων γνώμης καὶ ψήφου .… Hom. ii. p. 432. That an example is wanting of this exact use of the word, is, as Olsh. has shewn, no objection to such use; the ὁρίζειν here spoken of is not the objective ‘fixing,’ ‘  appointing ’ of Christ to be the Son of God, but the  subjective manifestation in men’s minds that He is so . Thus the objective words ποιεῖν ( Act 2:36 ), γεννᾷν ( Act 13:33 ) are used of the same  proof or  manifestation of Christ’s Sonship by His Resurrection. So again ἐδικαιώθη , 1 Timothy 3:16 .
	 [1] “Prædest  inatus .”  A work ascribed to Vincent of Lerins (434)
	 ἐν δυνάμει belongs to ὁρισθέντος , not to υἱοῦ θεοῦ , nor again is it a parallel clause to κατ . πν . ἁγ . and ἐξ ἀναστ . νεκ . (as Chrys., who interprets it ἀπὸ τῶν θαυμάτων ἅπερ ἔπραττε , Theophyl. &c.)  manifested with power (  to be )  the Son of God . See reff.
	 κατὰ πνεῦμα ἁγιωσύνης ] ἁγιως . is not = ἅγιον ; this epithet would be inapplicable here, for it would point out the  Third Person in the Blessed Trinity , whereas it is  the Spirit of Christ Himself , in distinction from His Flesh, which is spoken of. And this Spirit is designated by the gen. of quality, ἁγιωσύνης , to shew that it is not a human, but a divine Spirit which is attributed  here to Christ, a Spirit to which holiness belongs as its essence. The other interpretations certainly miss the mark, by overlooking the κατὰ σάρκα and κατὰ πνεῦμα , the two sides of the Person of Christ here intended to be brought out. Such are that of Theodoret ( διὰ τῆς ὑπὸ τοῦ παναγίου πνεύματος ἐνεργουμένης δυνάμεως ), Chrys. ( ἀπὸ τοῦ πνεύματος , δι ʼ οὗ τὸν ἁγιασμὸν ἔδωκεν ), &c. Calvin and Olshausen seem to wish to include the notion of  sanctifying ( ἁγιασμός ) in ἁγιωσύνη , which however true, is more than strictly belongs to the words. See by all means, on the whole, Umbreit’s important note, pp. 164 172.
	 ἐξ ] not ‘  from and after ’ (as Theodoret, Luther, Grotius, al.), nor = ἀπό , which could not be used here, but by, as indicating the source,  out of which the demonstration proceeds.
	 ἀναστάσεως νεκρῶν ] not = ἀναστ .  ἐκ νεκρῶν , which, besides the force done to the words, would be a weakening of the strong expression of the Apostle, who takes here summarily and by anticipation the Resurrection of Jesus as being, including, involving ( ἐγώ  εἰμι ἡ ἀνάστασις , Joh 11:25 )  the (  whole )  Resurrection of the dead . So that we must not render as E. V. ‘  the resurrection from the dead ,’ but  the resurrection of the dead , regarded as accomplished in that of Christ. It was the full accomplishment of  this , which more than any thing declared Him to be the Son of God: see John 5:25-29 . Thus in these words lies wrapped up the argument of ch. Romans 6:4 ff.
	 Ἰης. χρ. τ. κυρ. ἡμ. ] Having given this description of the Person and dignity of the Son of God, very Man and very God, he now identifies this divine Person with JESUS CHRIST, the Lord and Master of Christians, the historical object of their faith, and (see words following) the Appointer of himself to the apostolic office.