 9. ] “Asseveratio pia, de re necessaria, et hominibus, remotis præsertim et ignotis, occulta.” Bengel. There could be no other witness to his practice in his secret prayers, but God: and as the assertion of a habit of incessantly praying for the Roman Christians, whom he had never seen, might seem to savour of an exaggerated expression of affection, he solemnly appeals to this only possible testimony. To the Eph., Phil., (see however Php 1:8 ), Col., Thess., he gives the same assurance, but without the asseveration. The thus calling God to witness is no un-common practice with Paul: see reff. in E. V.
	 ᾧ λατρ  . ] The  serving God in his spirit was a guarantee that his profession was sincere, and that the oath just taken was no mere form, but a solemn and earnest appeal of his spirit. See also Philippians 3:3 (present text), and John 4:24 . “The LXX use λατρεύω generally (not so, but only in a few places, e.g. Numbers 16:9 , Ezekiel 20:32 ; it is mostly rendered by λειτουργεῖν ; λατρεύειν for the most part rendering עָבַד ) for the Heb. שֵׁרֵת , which mostly implies the service of the priests in the temple: e.g. Numbers 3:31 ; Numbers 4:12 ; Numbers 18:2 , &c. The Apostle means then, that he is an intelligent, true priest of his God, not in the temple, but in his spirit, not at the altar, but at the gospel of His Son.” Umbreit.
	 ἐν τῷ εὐαγ  . ] ἡ τοῦ εὐαγγελίου προσθήκη τὸ εἶδος δηλοῖ τῆς διακονίας , Chrys. Hom. iii. p. 438. His peculiar method of λατρεία was concerned with the gospel of the Son of God. “Quidam accipiunt hanc particulam, quasi voluerit Paulus cultum illum, quo se prosequi Deum dixerat, ex eo commendare, quod Evangelii præscripto respondeat: certum est autem, spiritualem Dei cultum in Evangelio nobis præcipi. Sed prior interpretatio longe melius quadrat, nempe quod suum Deo obsequium addicat in Evangelii prædicatione.” Calvin. See εὐαγγελίον , Philippians 4:15 .
	[  ὡς ἀδιαλείπτως ]  how unceasingly : the words may also mean ‘  that without ceasing ,’ but the former rendering seems the better of the two.]
	 πάντοτε belongs to the following, not to the preceding words. This latter construction would not be without example, ἐν παντὶ καιρῷ ἀδιαλείπτως , 1Ma 12:11 , but this very example shews that if so, its natural place would be close to ἀδιαλείπτως . The whole phrase is a favourite one with Paul, see reff. “ πάντοτε vice nominis accipio, ac si dictum foret, ‘In omnibus meis orationibus, seu quoties precibus Deum appello, adjungo vestri mentionem.’ ” Calvin.
	 αἱ προσευχαί μου must be understood of his  ordinary stated prayers, just in our sense of  my prayers : “quoties ex professo et quasi meditatus Deum orabat, illorum quoque habebat rationem inter alios.” Calv.