 1.   δοῦλος Ἰ  .   χ  . ] so also Philippians 1:1 , and Titus 1:1 ( δοῦλος θεοῦ , ἀπόστ . δὲ χ . Ἰ .), but usually ἀπ . χ . Ἰ . (2 Cor. Eph. Colossians 1:2 Tim.): [ κλητὸς ] ἀπ . χ . Ἰ . (1 Cor.), simply ἀπόστολος (Gal.), δέσμιος χ . Ἰ . (Philem.), but in almost all these places the reading varies between χριστοῦ Ἰησοῦ and Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . The expression answers to the Hebr. עֶבֶד יְהוֹה , the especial O. T. title of Israel, and of individuals, as Moses, Joshua, David, Daniel, Job, and others, who as prophets, kings, &c., were raised up for the express work of God. See Umbreit’s note, Der Brief an die Römer auf dem Grunde des alten Testaments ausgelegt, p. 153 f. It must not be rendered  slave with Schrader, nor  pius cultor with Fritzsche: because, as Mehring remarks, the former excludes the element of freewill, while the latter does not express the entire dedication to Christ.
	 κλητὸς ἀπόστ  . ] In naming himself  a servant of Jesus Christ , he bespeaks their attention as  a Christian speaking to Christians : he now further specifies the  place which he held by the special calling of God :  called , and that to the very highest office, of  an apostle ; and even more among the Apostles, not one by original selection, but one  specially called . “Ceteri quidem apostoli per diutinam cum Jesu consuetudinem educati fuerunt, et primo ad sequelam et disciplinam vocati, deinde ad apostolatum producti. Paulus, persecutor antehac, de subito apostolus per vocationem factus est. Ita Judæi erant sancti ex promissione: Græci, sancti ex mera vocatione, Romans 1:6 . Præcipuam ergo  vocatus apostolus cum  vocatis sanctis similitudinem et conjunctionem habebat.” Bengel.
	 ἀπόστολος must not be taken here in the wider sense, of a  missionary , as in ch. Romans 16:7 , but in its higher and peculiar meaning, in which the Twelve bore the title ( οὓς καὶ ἀποστόλους ὠνόμασεν , Luk 6:13 ), and Paul (and perhaps Barnabas), and James the Lord’s brother. This title was not conferred on Paul by the ἀφορίσατε δή μοι of the Holy Spirit, Acts 13:2 , but  in virtue of his special call by the Lord in person ; compare σκεῦος ἐκλογῆς , Acts 9:15 , with ἐξελεξάμην , John 6:70 ; John 13:18 ; John 15:16 ; Acts 1:2 . “Neque enim iis assentior, qui eam de qua loquitur vocationem ad æternam Dei electionem referant.” Calvin.
	 ἀφωρισμένος ] not in Acts 13:2 , merely, though that was a particular application of the general truth: but (as in Galatians 1:15 , ὁ ἀφορίσας με ἐκ κοιλίας μητρός μου )  from his birth . “Idem  Pharisæi etymon fuerat: hoc autem loco Paulus se non solum ex hominibus, ex Judæis, ex discipulis, sed etiam ex doctoribus segregatum a Deo significat.” Bengel.
	 εἰς ]  for the purpose of announcing.
	 εὐαγγέλιον θεοῦ = τὸ εὐαγ . τοῦ θ ., which (see reff.) is the usual form. Bp. Middleton (on Rom 1:17 ) remarks on the  anarthrousness of Paul’s style, and cites from Dion. Hal. de Comp. Verb. c. 22, as a character of the αὐστηρὰ ἁρμονία , that it is ὀλιγοσύνδεσμος ,  ἄναρθρος . See the passage cited at length in the Prolegomena, § Romans 1:2 ,  the good tidings sent by (not concerning)  God . The genitive is not, as in τὸ εὐαγγέλιον τῆς βασιλείας , Matthew 4:23 , one of apposition, but of  possession or origin;  God’s Gospel . And so, whenever the expression ‘  the Gospel of Christ ’ occurs, it is not ‘the Gospel  about Christ,’ but  Christ’s Gospel ; that Gospel which flows out of His grace, and is His gift to men. Thus in the very beginning of the Epistle, these two short words announce that the Gospel is  of God , in other words, that  salvation is of grace only .