 19. ]  διότι  , because , may either give the reason why  the anger of God is revealed , and thus apply to all that follows as far as Romans 1:32 , being taken up again at Romans 1:21 ; Romans 1:24 ; Romans 1:26 ; Romans 1:28 (so Meyer): or may explain τῶν .… κατεχ . (so Thol.): which latter seems most probable: the  subauditum being, ‘(this charge I bring against them), because.’ For he proves, first ( Rom 1:20 ) that they  had the ἀλήθεια ; then (Romans 1:21 ff.) that they  held it back .
	 τὸ γνωστόν  , that which is known , the objective knowledge patent and recognized in Creation: so Chrys., Theodoret, Luther, Reiche, Meyer, De Wette, al.: not ‘  that which may be known ’ (as Orig [2] , Theophyl., Œc [3] , Erasm., Beza, Grot., al. [and E. V.]), which would assert what, as simple matter of fact, was not the case, that  all which could be known of God was φανερὸν ἐν αὐτοῖς . He speaks  now not of what they  might have known of God, but of what they  did know . Thus τὸ γνωστ . τ . θεοῦ will mean,  that universal objective knowledge of God as the Creator which we find more or less in every nation under heaven, and which, as matter of historical fact, was proved to be in possession of the great Gentile nations of antiquity.
	 [2] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [3] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 φαν  .   ἐστ  .   ἐν αὐτοῖς ]  is evident in them , i.e.  in their hearts : not,  to them (as Luth.), nor,  among them (as Erasm., Grot., &c.): for if it had been a thing acknowledged  among them , it would not have been κατεχόμενον . Every man has in him this knowledge; his senses convey it to him (see next verse) with the phænomena of nature.
	 ὁ θ  .   γ  .   ἐφ  . ] gives the reason why that which is known of God is manifest in them, viz. because God Himself so created the world as to leave impressed on it this testimony to Himself.
	Notice, and keep to, the  historic aorist , ἐφανέρωσεν , not ‘  hath manifested it’ (perf.), but  manifested it, viz. at the Creation. This is important for the right understanding of ἀπὸ κτ . κόσμ . Romans 1:20 .