 20. ]  For (justifying the clause preceding)  His invisible attributes (hence the plur. applying to δύναμις and θειότης which follow),  ἀπὸ κτίσεως κόσμ  ., from the time of the creation , when the manifestation was made by God: not = ἐκ κτίσεως κ . ‘by the creation of the world;’ which would be tautological, τοῖς ποιήμασι νοούμενα following, besides that κτίσις κόσμου cannot = ἡ κτίσις , in the sense of ‘the creation,’ i.e. ‘the creatures.’ Umbreit has here a long and important note on O. T. prophecy in general, which will be found well worth study.
	 τοῖς ποιήμ  .   νοούμ  . ]  being understood (apprehended by the mind, see reff.)  by means of His works (of creation and sustenance, not here of moral government),  καθορᾶται  , are perceived ; not, ‘are  plainly seen,’ this is not the sense of κατά in καθοράω , but rather that of looking down on, taking a survey of, and so apprehending or perceiving.
	 ἥ τε ἀΐδ  .   αὐτ  .   δύν  . ]  His eternal Power . To this the evidence of Creation is plainest of all: Eternal, and Almighty, have always been recognized epithets of the Creator.
	 κ  .   θειότης ]  and Divinity (not  Godhead , which would be θεότης ). The fact that the Creator is  divine ; is of a  different nature from ourselves, and accompanied by distinct attributes, and those of the highest order, which we call  divine .
	 εἰς τὸ εἶναι αὐτ  .   ἀναπολ  . ] εἰς τό with an inf. never  properly indicates only the  result , ‘so that;’ but is often  used where  the result , and  the intention , are bound together in the process of thought. This is done by a very natural habit in speaking and writing, of transferring one’s self to the position of the argument, and regarding that which contributed to a result, as worked purposely for that result. And however true it is, that in the doings of the Allwise,  all results are purposed , to give the sense ‘  in order that they might be inexcusable ,’ would be manifestly contrary to the whole spirit of the argument, which is bringing out, not at present  God’s sovereignty in dealing with man , but  man’s inexcusableness in holding back the truth by unrighteousness .  εἰς τό , then, in this case, is most nearly expressed by  wherefore , or  so that . See Winer, edn. 6, § 44. 6. οὐ διὰ τοῦτο ταῦτα πεποίηκεν ὁ θεός , εἰ καὶ τοῦτο ἐξέβη . οὐ γὰρ ἵνα αὐτοὺς ἀπολογίας ἀποστερήσῃ , διδασκαλίαν τοσαύτην εἰς μέσον προύθηκεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα αὐτὸν ἐπιγνῶσιν · ἀγνωμονήσαντες δὲ πάσης ἑαυτοὺς ἀπεστέρησαν ἀπολογίας . Chrys. Hom. iv. p. 450.