 8. ] This placing himself in intimate connexion with his readers by mention of and thankfulness for their faith or Christian graces, is the constant habit of Paul. The three Epistles, Gal., 1 Tim., and Titus, are the only exceptions: Olsh. adds 2 Cor., but in ch. Rom 1:3-22 we have an equivalent: see especially Romans 1:6-7 ; Romans 1:11 ; Romans 1:14 .
	 μέν ] The corresponding δέ follows, Romans 1:13 . ‘Ye indeed are prospering in the faith: but I still am anxious  further to advance that fruitfulness.’ There is no ἔπειτα to follow to πρῶτον .
	 τῷ θεῷ μου ] ὅρα μεθ ʼ ὅσης διαθέσεως εὐχαριστεῖ . οὐ γὰρ εἶπε , τῷ θεῷ , ἀλλὰ  τῷ θεῷ μου  · ὃ καὶ οἱ προφῆται ποιοῦσι , τὸ κοινὸν ἰδιοποιούμενοι . καὶ τί θαυμαστὸν εἰ οἱ προφῆται ; αὐτὸς γὰρ αὐτὸ συνεχῶς ὁ θεὸς φαίνεται ποιῶν ἐπὶ τῶν δούλων , θεὸν Ἀβραὰμ καὶ Ἰσαὰκ καὶ Ἰακὼβ ἰδιαζόντως λέγων ἑαυτόν . Chrys. Hom. iii. p. 436.
	 διὰ Ἰ  .   χ  . ] “Velut per Pontificem magnum: oportet enim scire eum qui vult offerre sacrificium Deo, quod per manus Pontificis debet offerre.” Origen. So also Calvin, “Hic habemus exemplum, quomodo per Christum agendæ sunt gratiæ, secundum Apostoli præceptum ad Hebrews 13:15 .” Olshausen says, “This is no mere phrase, but a true expression of the deepest conviction. For only by the Spirit of Christ dwelling in men’s hearts are thanksgivings and prayer acceptable to God.” But perhaps here it is better to take the words as expressing an acknowledgment that the faith of the Romans, for which thanks were given,  was due to, and rested on the Lord Jesus Christ: see ch. Romans 7:25 , and rendering there.
	 περί ] This prep. and ὑπέρ both occur in this connexion, see 1 Corinthians 1:4 ; Col 1:3 ; 1 Thessalonians 1:2 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:3 ; Ephesians 1:16 ; Philippians 1:4 : and it is impossible to say, in cases of their confusion by the MSS., which may have been substituted for the other. The internal criticism which would adopt ὑπέρ as being the less usual, may be answered by the probability that ὑπέρ , being known to be sometimes used by Paul, may have been substituted as more in his manner for the more usual περί . So that manuscript authority in such cases must be our guide; and this authority is here decisive. The difference in meaning would be, that ὑπέρ would give more the idea that thanks were given by Paul  on their behalf , as if he were  aiding them in giving thanks, for such great mercies: whereas περί would imply only that they were the  subject of his thanks, that he gave thanks  concerning them .
	 ἡ πίστις ὑμ  . ] “In ejusmodi gratulationibus Paulus vel totum Christianismum describit, Colossians 1:3 , sqq., vel partem aliquam, 1 Corinthians 1:5 . Itaque hoc loco  fidem commemorat, suo convenienter instituto, Romans 1:12 ; Romans 1:17 .” Bengel.
	 καταγγέλλεται ] De Wette notices the other side of the report, as given by the Jews at Rome, Acts 28:22 , to Paul himself. This  praise was in the  Christian churches , and brought by  Christian brethren .
	 ἐν ὅλῳ τῷ κόσμῳ ] A popular hyperbole, common every where, and especially when speaking of general diffusion through the Roman empire, the ‘orbis terrarum.’ The praise would be heard in every city where there was a Christian church, intercourse with the metropolis of the world being common to all.