 17. ] An explanation,  how the gospel is the  power of God to salvation , and how it is so  to the believer : because in it  God’s righteousness (not His  attribute of righteousness, ‘the righteousness of God,’ but righteousness  flowing from, and acceptable to Him ) is unfolded, and the more, the more we believe. I subjoin De Wette’s note on δικ . θεοῦ . “The Greek δικ . and the Heb. צְדָקָה are taken sometimes for ‘virtue’ and ‘piety’ which men possess or strive after, sometimes imputatively, for ‘freedom from blame’ or ‘justification,’ The latter meaning is most usual with Paul: δικ . is that which is so in the sight of God (ch. Rom 2:13 ), the result of His justifying forensic Judgment, or of ‘  Imputation ’ (ch. Rom 4:5 ). It may certainly be imagined, that a man  might obtain justification by  fulfilling the law : in that case his righteousness is an ἰδία ( δικαιοσύνη ) (ch. Rom 10:3 ), a δικ . ἐκ τοῦ νόμου ( Php 3:9 ). But it is impossible for him to obtain a ‘righteousness of his own,’ which at the same time shall avail before God (ch. Romans 3:20 ; Gal 2:16 ). The Jews not only  have not fulfilled the law (ch. Rom 3:9-19 ), but  could not fulfil it (Romans 7:7 ff.): the Gentiles likewise have rendered themselves obnoxious to the divine wrath ( Rom 1:24-32 ). God has ordained that the whole race should be included in disobedience. Now if man is to become righteous from being unrighteous, this can only happen by God’s grace, because God  declares him righteous , assumes him to be righteous, δικαιοῖ (Romans 3:24 ; Gal 3:8 ): δικαιοῦν is not only negative, ‘  to acquit ,’ as הַצְדִּיק Exodus 23:7 ; Isaiah 5:23 ; ch. Romans 2:13 (where however see my note), but also positive, ‘  to declare righteous :’ but never ‘to  make righteous’ by transformation, or imparting of moral strength by which moral perfection may be attained.  Justificatio must be taken as the old protestant dogmatists rightly took it,  sensu forensi , i.e.  imputatively . God justifies for Christ’s sake (ch. Romans 3:22 ff.) on condition of faith in Him as Mediator: the result of  His justification is δικαιοσύνη ἐκ πίστεως , and as He imparts it freely, it is δικαιοσύνη θεοῦ (gen. subj.) or ἐκ θεοῦ , Philippians 3:9 ; so Chrys. &c. ( δικ . θεοῦ is ordinarily taken for δικ . παρὰ θεῷ , as Luth.: ‘  die Gerechtigfeit die vor Gott gilt :’ compare ch. Romans 2:13 ; Romans 3:20 ; Galatians 3:11 ; but that this is at least not necessary, see 2Co 5:21 ). This justification is certainly an objective act of God: but it must also be subjectively apprehended, as its  condition is subjective. It is  the acquittal from guilt, and cheerfulness of conscience, attained through faith in God’s grace in Christ , the very frame of mind which would be proper to a perfectly righteous man, if such there were, the harmony of the spirit with God, peace with God. All interpretations which overlook the fact of imputation (the R.-Cath., that of Grotius, Baumgarten-Crusius, &c.) are erroneous.” To say, with Jowett, that all attempts to define δικαιος . θεοῦ are “the after-thoughts of theology, which have no real place in the interpretation of Scripture,” is in fact to shut our eyes to the great doctrinal facts of Christianity, and float off at once into uncertainty about the very foundations of the Apostle’s argument and our own faith: of which uncertainty his note here is an eminent example.
	 ἐν αὐτῷ ]  in it , ‘  the gospel :’ not, in τῷ πιστεύοντι .
	 ἀποκαλύπτεται ] generally used of  making known a thing hitherto concealed: but here of that gradually more complete realization of the state of justification before God by faith in Christ, which is the continuing and increasing gift of God to the believer in the Gospel.
	 ἐκ πίστεως ] “ ἐκ points to the condition, or the subjective ground. πίστις is faith in the sense of  trust , and that (a)  a trustful assumption of a truth in reference to knowledge =  conviction : (b)  a trustful surrender of the soul , as regards the  feeling . Here it is especially the latter of these: that trust reposed in God’s grace in Christ, which tranquillizes the soul and frees it from all guilt, and especially trust in the atoning death of Jesus. Bound up with this (not by the meaning of the words, but by the idea of unconditional trust, which excludes all reserve) is  humility , consisting in the abandonment of all merits of a man’s own, and recognition of his own unworthiness and need of redemption.” De Wette.
	 εἰς πίστιν ] ἀπὸ πίστεως ἄρχεται κ . εἰς πιστεύοντα λήγει (Œcum.) seems the most probable interpretation, making πίστιν almost = τοὺς πιστεύοντας , see ch. Romans 3:22 ; but not entirely, it is still the  aspect , the  phase , of the man, which is receptive of the δικαιοσύνη θεοῦ , and to this it is revealed. The other interpretations, ‘  for the increase of faith ’ (Meyer), ‘  that faith may be given to it ’ (Fritzsche, Tholuck, Krebs), ‘  proceeding from faith, and leading to a higher degree of faith ’ (Baumg.-Crus.), do not seem so suitable or forcible. It will be observed that ἐκ π . εἰς π . is taken with ἀποκαλύπτεται , not with δικαιοσύνη . The latter connexion would do for  ἐκ π  . , but not for  εἰς π  .
	 καθὼς γέγρ  . ] He shews that  righteousness by faith is no new idea , but found in the prophets. The words (ref.) are cited again in Galatians 3:11 ; Hebrews 10:38 , in the former place with the same purpose as here. They are used in Habakkuk with reference to credence given to the prophetic word: but properly speaking,  all faith is one , in whatever word or act of God reposed: so that the Apostle is free from any charge of forcing the words to the present purpose. The two ways of arranging them, ὁ δίκαιος ἐκ πίστεως ζήσεται , and ὁ δίκαιος ἐκ πίστεως ζήσεται , in fact amount to the same: if the former, which is more agreeable to the Heb., be taken, ζήσεται must mean, ‘shall live  on,’ endure in his δικαιοσύνη ,  by means of faith , which would assert that it was a δικαιοσύνη of faith, as strongly as does the latter. See by all means, on the quotation, Umbreit’s note: and Delitzsch, der Proph. Habakuk, p. 51 ff. This latter remarks (I quote from Philippi), “The Apostle rests no more on our text than it will bear. He only places its assertion, that the life of the just springs from his faith, in the light of the N. T.”