 18. ] He first states the general fact, of  all mankind ; but immediately passes off to the consideration of the  majority of mankind, the Gentiles; reserving the Jews for exceptional consideration afterwards.
	 ἀποκ  .   γἀρ ] The statement of Rom 1:17 was, that the RIGHTEOUSNESS  of God is revealed. The necessary condition of this revelation is,  the DESTRUCTION  of the righteousness of MAN by the revelation of God’s anger against sin.
	 ἀποκαλύπτεται , not  in the Gospel (as Grot.): not  in men’s consciences (as Tholuck, Exodus 1:0 , Reiche): ‘not  in the miserable state of the then world (as Köllner): but (as implied indeed by the adjunct ἀπ ʼ οὐρανοῦ , that it is a  providential, universally-to-be-seen revelation) in the PUNISHMENTS which, Romans 1:24 , God has made to follow upon sin, see also ch. Romans 2:2 (so De W., Meyer, Tholuck, Exodus 5:0 , &c.). So that ἀποκ . is of an  objective reality here , not of an evangelic internal and subjective unfolding.
	 ὀργὴ θεοῦ is anthropopathically, but with the deepest truth, put for  the righteousness of God in punishment (see ch. Romans 2:8 ; Romans 5:9 ; Ephesians 2:3 ; Matthew 3:7 ; Joh 3:36 ). It is the opposite, in the divine attributes, to  Love (De W.).
	 ἀπ  ʼ   οὐρ . (see above) belongs to ἀποκαλύπτεται , not to θεοῦ , nor to ὀργὴ θεοῦ ( ἡ ἀπ ʼ οὐρ .).
	 ἀσέβειαν ,  godlessness;   ἀδικίαν  , iniquity : but neither term is exclusive of the other, nor to be formally pressed to its limits. They overlap and include each other by a large margin: the specific difference being, that ἀσέβ . is more the  fountain (but at the same time partially the result) of ἀδικία , which ἀδικ . is more the  result (but at the same time partially the fountain) of ἀσέβεια . ἀδικ . is the  state of the thoughts and feelings and habits, induced originally by forgetfulness of God, and in its turn inducing impieties of all kinds. We may notice by the way, that the word ἀσέβεια forms an interesting link to the Pastoral Epistles [where it, and its opposite εὐσέβεια are the ordinary terms for an unholy and a holy life].
	 ἀνθρ  .   τῶν τὴν ἀλ  .   ἐν ἀδικίᾳ κατεχόντων ]  of men who hold back the truth in iniquity : who, possessing enough of the germs of religious and moral verity to preserve them from abandonment, have checked the development of this  truth in their lives, in the love and practice of sin. That this is the meaning of κατεχόντων here is plain from this circumstance: that wherever κατέχω in the N. T. signifies ‘to hold,’ it is  emphatic , ‘to hold  fast ,’ or ‘to  keep to ,’ or ‘to take or have  complete possession of :’ see for the first, Luke 8:15 ; 1Co 11:2 ; 1 Corinthians 15:2 ; 1 Thessalonians 5:21 ; Hebrews 3:6 ; Hebrews 3:14 ; Hebrews 10:23 ; for the second, Luke 14:9 (every other place except the lowest being excluded): for the third, Matthew 21:38 ; 1 Corinthians 7:30 . Now no such emphatic sense will apply here. If the word is to mean ‘holding,’ it must be only in the loosest and least emphatic sense: ‘having a half and indistinct consciousness of,’ which does not at all correspond to the κατά , indicating vehemence of purpose, as in καταφιλέω , &c. But the meaning ‘  keeping back,’ ‘hindering the development of ,’ while it has a direct example in Paul’s own usage in reff., and in Luke 4:42 , and indirect ones in (the spurious Joh 5:4 ) Acts 27:40 ; ch. Romans 7:6 ; Philemon 1:13 , admirably suits the sense, that men had (see Romans 1:19 ff.) knowledge of God sufficient, if its legitimate work had been allowed, to have kept them from such excesses of enormity as they have committed, but that this ἀλήθεια they κατεῖχον ἐν ἀδικίᾳ , i.e.  crushed, quenched , in (as the element, conditional medium in which) their state and practice of unrighteousness. It is plain that to take ἐν ἀδικίᾳ for ἀδίκως (as Theophyl. and Reiche) is to miss the force of the expression altogether the pregnant  ἐν , ‘  in and by ,’ implying that it is their ἀδικία , the very absence of δικαιοσύνη for which the argument contends, which is the  status wherein , and the  instrument whereby , they hold back the truth lit up in their consciences.