 29 31. ]  πεπληρωμένους belongs to the subject of ποιεῖν , understood.
	The reading πορνείᾳ appears to have arisen out of πονηρίᾳ , and is placed by some MSS. after that word, by some after κακίᾳ , omitting πον . The Apostle can hardly have written it here, treating as he does all these immoralities of the heart and conscience as  results of, and  flowing from , the licentious practices of idolatry above specified.
	Accurate distinctions of ethical meaning can hardly be found for all these words. Without requiring such, or insisting on each excluding the rest, I have collected the most interesting notices respecting them. Umbreit has illustrated their LXX usage and Hebrew equivalents.
	 ἀδικίᾳ ] Perhaps a general term, comprehending all that follow: such would be according to the usage of the Epistle: but perhaps to be confined to the stricter import of injustice; of which on the part of the Romans, Wetst. gives abundant testimonies.
	 πονηρίᾳ ] Ammonius interprets τὸ πονηρόν , τὸ δραστικὸν κακοῦ , used therefore more of the tempter and seducer to evil.
	 πλεονεξίᾳ ]  covetousness (not as 1 Thessalonians 4:6 , see there), of which the whole provincial government and civil life of the Romans at the time was full. ‘Quando | major avaritiæ patuit sinus?’ exclaims Juvenal, soon after this. Sat. i. 87.
	 κακίᾳ ] more the  passive side of evil the capability of and proclivity to evil, the opposite to ἀρετή : so Arist. Eth. Nic. ii. 3. 6, ὑπόκειται ἄρα ἡ ἀρετὴ εἶναι .… τῶν βελτίστων πρακτική · ἡ δὲ κακία , τοὐναντίον .
	 φθόνου and  φόνου are probably put together from similarity of sound. So Eurip. Troad. 770 ff., ὦ Τυνδάρειον ἔρνος , οὔποτ ʼ εἶ Διὸς πολλῶν δὲ πατέρων φημί σ ʼ ἐκπεφυκέναι , Ἀλάστορος μὲν πρῶτον , εἶτα δὲ φθόνου , φόνου τε , θανάτου θ ʼ, ὅσα τε γῆ τρέφει κακά .
	 κακοηθείας ] Sea reff.
	 ψιθυρ  . secret maligners,   καταλ  . open slanderers . The distinction attempted to be set up by Suidas and others, between θεομισής , ὑπὸ θεοῦ μισούμενος , and θεομίσης , ὁ μισῶν τὸν θεόν , has been applied to θεοστυγεῖς also, which has therefore been written θεοστύγεις . But the distinction is untenable; all compound adjectives in ης being oxyton.
	 θεοστυγής is never found in an active sense, ‘  hater of God ,’ but always in a passive,  hated by God (cf. Eur. Troad. 1205, ἡ θεοστυγὴς Ἑλένη : Cycl. 395, τῷ θεοστυγεῖ ᾅδου μαγείρῳ : ib. 598: so θεοφιλής , Demosth. 1486 ult.: εὐτυχεστάτην πασῶν πόλεων τὴν ὑμετέραν νομίζω καὶ θεοφιλεστάτην : and Æsch. Eum. 831); and such is apparently the sense here. The order of crimes enumerated would be broken, and one of a totally different kind inserted between καταλάλους and ὑβριστάς , if θεοστ . is to signify ‘  haters of God .’ But on the other supposition, if any crime was known more than another as ‘  hated by the gods ,’ it was that of ‘  delatores ,’ abandoned persons who circumvented and ruined others by a system of malignant espionage and false information. And the crime was one which the readers of this part of Roman history know to have been the pest of the state; see Tacitus, Ann. vi. 7, where he calls the delatores ‘Principi quidem grati, et  Deo exosi .’ So also Philo, ap. Damascen. (quoted by Wetst.) διάβολοι καὶ θείας ἀποπέμπτοι χάριτος , οἱ τὴν αὐτὴν ἐκείνῳ διαβολικὴν νοσοῦντες κακοτεχνίαν , θεοστυγεῖς τε καὶ θεομισεῖς πάντη . It does not follow that the  delatores only are intended, but the expression may be used to include all those abandoned persons who were known as  Diis exosi , who were employed in pursuits hateful and injurious to their kind. So Wetst., Meyer, Rückert, Fritzsche, De Wette: the majority of Commentators incline to the  active sense, so Theodoret, Œc [4] , Erasm., Luther, Calv., Beza, Estius, Grot., Tholuck, Reiche, &c.
	 [4] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 ὑβριστάς ] opposed by Xenoph. Mem. i. ana Apol. Socr. to σώφρων , ‘a discreet and modest man:’ but here perhaps, as said by Paul of himself, ref. 1 Tim., ‘qui contumeliâ afficit,’ ‘an insulting person.’
	 ὑπερηφάνους ] ἐστὶ δὲ ὑπερηφανία καταφρόνησίς τις πλὴν αὑτοῦ τῶν ἄλλων , Theophr. Char. 34. It may be observed that Aristotle, Rhet. ii. 16, mentions ὑβρισταί and ὑπερήφανοι as examples of τῷ πλούτῳ ἃ ἕπεται ἤθη .
	 ἀλαζόνας ] see reff. δοκεῖ δὲ καὶ ἀλαζὼν εἶναι ὁ θρασὺς καὶ προσποιητικὸς ἀνδρείας , Aristot. Eth. Nic. iii. 10. δοκεῖ δὴ ὁ μὲν ἀλαζὼν προσποιητικὸς τῶν ἐνδόξων εἶναι , καὶ μὴ ὑπαρχόντων , καὶ μειζόνων ἢ ὑπάρχει .… ( ἕνεκα δόξης καὶ τιμῆς ).… καὶ γὰρ ἡ ὑπερβολὴ καὶ ἡ λίαν ἔλλειψις ἀλαζονικόν , Ibid. iv. 13.
	 ἐφευρ  .   κακ  . ] ‘Sejanus omnium facinorum repertor habebatur,’ Tacit. Ann. iv. 11: ‘scelerumque inventor Ulixes,’ Virg. Æn. ii. 161: στασιάρχαι , φιλοπράγμονες , κακῶν εὑρεταί , ταραξιπόλιδες , Philo in Flacc. § 4, vol. ii. p. 520: πάσης κακίας εὑρετής (of Antiochus Epiph [5] ), 2Ma 7:31 .
	 [5] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	 ἀσυνέτους  , destitute of (moral)  understanding , see Colossians 1:9 , and reff. Here perhaps suggested by the similarity of sound to  ἀσυνθέτους  , without good faith , οὐκ ἐμμένοντας ταῖς συνθήκαις , Suid. and Hesych [6] In the same sense, εὐσυνθετεῖν and ἀσυνθετεῖν are opposed by Chrysippus and Plutarch (see Wetst.).
	 [6] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	 ἀστόργους ] μὴ ἀγαπῶντάς τινα , Hesych [7] And Athenæus, speaking of οἱ καλούμενοι ὄρνιθες μελεαγρίδες , ἐστὶ δὲ ἄστοργον πρὸς τὰ ἔκγονα τὸ ὄρνεον , καὶ ὀλιγωρεῖ τῶν νεωτέρων , xiv. p. 655 c. “In hac urbe nemo liberos tollit, quia, quisquis suos hæredes habet, nec ad cœnas nec ad spectacula admittitur.” Petronius, 116. (Wetst.)
	 [7] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.