 5.   δι  ʼ   οὗ ] as in Galatians 1:1 ; 1 Corinthians 1:9 , designating the Lord Himself as the Agent in conferring the grace and Apostleship.
	 ἐλάβομεν ] not’  all Christians ,’ but  we , the Apostle himself, as he not unfrequently speaks. No others need be here included in the word.  Those to whom he is writing cannot be thus included, for they are specially contrasted with the subject of ἐλάβομεν by the following ὑμεῖς . Nor can the aor.  ἐλάβομεν refer to any general bestowal of this kind, indicating, as it must, a definite past event, viz. the reception of the Apostleship by himself. To maintain (as Dr. Peile, Annotations on the Epistles, vol. i. Appendix) that the subject of ἐλὰβομεν must be the same as the ἡμῶν which has preceded, is to overlook, not only the contrast just noticed, and the habit of Paul to use indiscriminately the singular or plural, when speaking of himself, but also the  formulary character of the expression, ‘Jesus Christ our Lord,’ in which the ‘we’ alluded to in ‘our’ is too faintly indicated to become the subject of a following verb.
	 χάριν ] Hardly, as Augustine, “  gratiam cum omnibus fidelibus,  apostolatum autem non cum omnibus communem habet” (Olsh.): for he is surely speaking of  that peculiar χάρις , by which he wrought in his apostleship more than they all; see reff.
	 ἀποστολήν ] Strictly,  apostleship , ‘the office of an Apostle,’see reff.: not any  mission , or  power of sending ministers , resident in the  whole church , which would be contrary to the usage of the word. The  existence of such a power is not hereby denied, but  this place refers  solely to the office of Paul as an Apostle. Keep the  χάρ  .   κ  .   ἀποστ  . separate, and strictly consecutive, avoiding all nonsensical figures of Hendiadys, Hypallage, and the like. It was the general bestowal of  grace , which conditioned and introduced the special bestowal (  καί , as so often, coupling a specific portion to a whole) of  apostleship : cf. 1 Corinthians 15:10 .
	 εἰς ]  with a view to , ‘in order to bring about.’
	 ὑπακοὴν πίστεως ] The anarthrous character above remarked (on εὐαγγ . θεοῦ , Rom 1:1 ) must be here borne in mind, or we shall fall into the mistake of supposing ὑ . π . to mean ‘  obedience produced by faith .’ The key to the words is found in ref. Acts, πολύς τε ὄχλος τῶν ἱερέων  ὑπήκουον τῇ πίστει , compared with Paul’s own usage of joining an objective genitive with ὑπακοή , see 2 Corinthians 10:5 , εἰς τὴν ὑπακοὴν τοῦ χριστοῦ . So that πίστεως is  the faith ; not = ‘the gospel which is to be believed’ (as Fritzsche, citing ch. Rom 10:16 ), but the  state of salvation, in which men stand by faith . And so these words form an introduction to the great subject of the Epistle.
	 ἐν πᾶσιν τ  .   ἔθν .]  in order to bring about obedience to the faith among all (the)  nations . The  Jews do not here come into account. There is no inclusion, and at the same time no express exclusion of them: but Paul was commissioned as  the Apostle of the Gentiles , and he here magnifies the great office entrusted to him.
	 ὑπὲρ τ  .   ὀν  .   αὐτ  . ]  on behalf of His name , i.e. ‘for His glory:’ see reff. “In the name of Christ is summed up what He had done and was, what the Christian ever bore in mind, the zeal which marked him, the name wherewith he was named.” Jowett. See also Umbreit’s note. The words are best taken as belonging to the whole, from δι ʼ οὗ to ἔθνεσιν [as declaring the purpose for which the grace and apostleship had been received].