 16. ] The  οὐ γὰρ ἐπαισχύνομαι seems to be suggested by the  position of the Romans in the world . ‘Yea, to you at Rome also: for, though your city is mistress of the world, though your emperors are worshipped as present deities, though you are elated by your pomps and luxuries and victories, yet I am not ashamed of the apparently mean origin of the gospel which I am to preach; for (and here is the transition to his great theme) it is,’ &c. So for the most part, Chrysostom, Hom. iii. p. 444.
	 δύναμις γὰρ θ  .   ἐστίν ] The gospel, which is the greatest example of the Power of God, he strikingly calls  that Power itself . (Not, as Jowett, ‘  a divine power ,’ nor is δικαιος . θεοῦ below to be thus explained, as he alleges.) So in 1Co 1:24 he calls Christ,  the Power of God . But not only is the gospel the great example of divine Power; it is the  field of agency of the power of God, working in it, and interpenetrating it throughout.
	The bare substantive δύναμις here (and 1Co 1:24 ) carries a  superlative sense: the  highest and holiest vehicle of the divine Power, the δύναμις κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν . “It is weighty for the difference between the Gospel and the Law, that the Law is never called God’s power, כֹחַ , but light, or teaching, in which a man must walk, Psalms 36:10 ; Psalms 119:105 ; Proverbs 6:23 ; Isaiah 2:5 .” Umbreit. And the  direction in which this power acts in the gospel is  εἰς σωτηρίαν it is a  healing, saving power : for as Chrysostom reminds us, there is a power of God εἰς κόλασιν , and εἰς ἀπώλειαν , see Matthew 10:28 .
	But  to whom is this gospel the power of God to save?  παντὶ τῷ πιστεύοντι . The  universality implied in the παντί , the  condition necessitated in the πιστεύοντι , and the δύναμις θεοῦ acting εἰς σωτηρίαν , are the great subjects treated of in the former part of this epistle.  All are proved to be  under sin , and so  needing God’s righteousness (ch. Rom 1:18 to Rom 3:20 ), and the  entrance into this righteousness is shewn to be  by faith (ch. Rom 3:21 to Rom 5:11 ). Then the δύναμις θεοῦ in freeing from the dominion of sin and death, and as issuing in salvation, is set forth (ch. Rom 5:11 to Rom 8:39 ). So that if the subject of the Epistle is to be stated in few words, these should be chosen:  τὸ εὐαγγέλιον  ,   δύναμις θεοῦ εἰς σωτηρίαν παντὶ τῷ πιστεύοντι . This expresses it better than merely ‘  justification by faith ,’ which is in fact only a subordinate part of the great theme, only the  condition necessitated by man’s sinfulness for his entering the state of salvation : whereas the argument extends  beyond this , to the  death unto sin and  life unto God and  carrying forward of the sanctifying work of the Spirit , from its first fruits even to its completion.
	 Ἰουδ  .   πρῶτον κ  .   Ἕλλ  . ] This is the  Jewish expression for all mankind, as Ἕλλ . κ . βαρβ . Rom 1:14 is the  Greek one. Ἕλλ . here includes  all Gentiles .  πρῶτον is not  first in order of time, but  principally (compare ch. Rom 2:9 ), spoken of  national precedence , in the sense in which the Jews were to our Lord οἱ ἴδιοι , John 1:11 . Salvation was ἐκ τῶν Ἰουδαίων , John 4:22 . See ch. Romans 9:5 ; Romans 11:24 . Not that the Jew has any  preference under the gospel; only he  inherits , and has a  precedence . οὐδὲ γὰρ ἐπεὶ δὴ πρῶτός ἐστι , καὶ πλέον λαμβάνει τῆς χάριτος · ἡ γὰρ αὐτὴ δωρεὰ καὶ τούτῳ κἀκείνῳ δίδοται · ἀλλὰ τάξεώς ἐστι τιμὴ μόνον τὸ  πρῶτος . Chrys. Hom. iii. p. 445.