 I am a Jew  (Εγω ειμ ανηρ Ιουδαιος). Note use of Εγω for emphasis. Paul recounts his Jewish advantages or privileges with manifest pride as in Acts 26:4; 2 Corinthians 11:22; Galatians 1:14; Philippians 3:4-7.Born  (γεγεννημενος). Perfect passive participle of γενναω. See above in Acts 21:39 for the claim of Tarsus as his birth-place. He was a Hellenistic Jew, not an Aramaean Jew (cf. Acts 6:1).Brought up  (ανατεθραμμενος). Perfect passive participle again of ανατρεφω, to nurse up, to nourish up, common old verb, but in the N.T. only here, Acts 7:20, and MSS. in Luke 4:16. The implication is that Paul was sent to Jerusalem while still young, "from my youth" (Acts 26:4), how young we do not know, possibly thirteen or fourteen years old. He apparently had not seen Jesus in the flesh (2 Corinthians 5:16).At the feet of Gamaliel  (προς τους ποδας Γαμαλιηλ). The rabbis usually sat on a raised seat with the pupils in a circle around either on lower seats or on the ground. Paul was thus nourished in Pharisaic Judaism as interpreted by Gamaliel, one of the lights of Judaism. For remarks on Gamaliel see chapter Acts 5:34. He was one of the seven Rabbis to whom the Jews gave the highest title Ραββαν (our Rabbi). Ραββ (my teacher) was next, the lowest being Ραβ (teacher). "As Aquinas among the schoolmen was called Doctor Angelicus, and Bonaventura Doctor Seraphicus, so Gamaliel was called the Beauty of the Law" (Conybeare and Howson).Instructed  (πεπαιδευμενος). Perfect passive participle again (each participle beginning a clause), this time of παιδευω, old verb to train a child (παις) as in Acts 7:22 which see. In this sense also in 1 Timothy 1:20; Titus 2:12. Then to chastise as in Luke 23:16; Luke 23:22 (which see); 2 Timothy 2:25; Hebrews 12:6.According to the strict manner  (κατα ακριβειαν). Old word, only here in N.T. Mathematical accuracy, minute exactness as seen in the adjective in Acts 26:5. See also Romans 10:2; Galatians 1:4; Philippians 3:4-7.Of our fathers  (πατρωιου). Old adjective from πατερ, only here and Acts 24:14 in N.T. Means descending from father to son, especially property and other inherited privileges. Πατρικος (patrician) refers more to personal attributes and affiliations.Being zealous for God  (ζηλωτης υπαρχων του θεου). Not adjective, but substantivezealot  (same word used by James of the thousands of Jewish Christians in Jerusalem, Acts 21:20 which see) with objective genitive του θεου (for God). See also verse Acts 22:14; Acts 28:17; 2 Timothy 1:3 where he makes a similar claim. So did Peter (Acts 3:13; Acts 5:30) and Stephen (Acts 7:32). Paul definitely claims, whatever freedom he demanded for Gentile Christians, to be personally "a zealot for God" "even as ye all are this day" (καθως παντες υμεις εστε σημερον). In his conciliation he went to the limit and puts himself by the side of the mob in their zeal for the law, mistaken as they were about him. He was generous surely to interpret their fanatical frenzy as zeal for God. But Paul is sincere as he proceeds to show by appeal to his own conduct. 