1. Likewise—Greek, "In
	like manner," as "servants" in their sphere; compare
	the reason of the woman's subjection, 1 Corinthians 11:8-10;
	1 Timothy 2:11-14. 
	your own—enforcing the
	obligation: it is not strangers ye are required to be subject to.
	Every time that obedience is enjoined upon women to their husbands,
	the Greek, "idios," "one's own
	peculiarly," is used, while the wives of men are designated only
	by heauton, "of themselves." Feeling the need of
	leaning on one stronger than herself, the wife (especially if joined
	to an unbeliever) might be tempted, though only spiritually,
	to enter into that relation with another in which she ought to stand
	to "her own spouse (1 Corinthians 14:34;
	1 Corinthians 14:35, "Let them ask
	their own [idious] husbands at home"); an
	attachment to the person of the teacher might thus spring up, which,
	without being in the common sense spiritual adultery, would still
	weaken in its spiritual basis the married relation [STEIGER].
	that, if—Greek,
	"that even if." Even if you have a husband that
	obeys not the word (that is, is an unbeliever). 
	without the
	word—independently of hearing the word preached, the
	usual way of faith coming. But BENGEL,
	"without word," that is, without direct Gospel
	discourse of the wives, "they may (literally, in
	oldest manuscripts, 'shall,' which marks the almost objective
	certainty of the result) be won" indirectly. "Unspoken
	acting is more powerful than unperformed speaking"
	[OEligCUMENIUS]. "A
	soul converted is gained to itself, to the pastor, wife, or
	husband, who sought it, and to Jesus Christ; added to His treasury
	who thought not His own precious blood too dear to lay out for this
	gain" [LEIGHTON].
	"The discreet wife would choose first of all to persuade her
	husband to share with her in the things which lead to blessedness;
	but if this be impossible, let her then alone diligently press after
	virtue, in all things obeying him so as to do nothing at any time
	against his will, except in such things as are essential to virtue
	and salvation" [CLEMENT OF
	ALEXANDRIA].