21. whereunto—The oldest
	manuscripts read, "which": literally, "which (namely,
	water, in general; being) the antitype (of the water of the
	flood) is now saving (the salvation being not yet fully realized by
	us, compare 1 Corinthians 10:1; 1 Corinthians 10:2;
	1 Corinthians 10:5; Judges 1:5;
	puts into a state of salvation) us also (two oldest
	manuscripts read 'you' for 'us': You also, as well as
	Noah and his party), to wit, baptism." Water saved Noah not of
	itself, but by sustaining the ark built in faith, resting on
	God's word: it was to him the sign and mean of a kind of
	regeneration, of the earth. The flood was for Noah a baptism,
	as the passage through the Red Sea was for the Israelites; by baptism
	in the flood he and his family were transferred from the old world to
	the new: from immediate destruction to lengthened probation; from the
	companionship of the wicked to communion with God; from the severing
	of all bonds between the creature and the Creator to the privileges
	of the covenant: so we by spiritual baptism. As there was a Ham who
	forfeited the privileges of the covenant, so many now. The
	antitypical water, namely, baptism, saves you also not of itself, nor
	the mere material water, but the spiritual thing conjoined with it,
	repentance and faith, of which it is the sign and seal, as Peter
	proceeds to explain. Compare the union of the sign and thing
	signified, John 3:5; Ephesians 5:26;
	Titus 3:5; Hebrews 10:22;
	compare 1 John 5:6. 
	not the, c.—"flesh"
	bears the emphasis. "Not the putting away of the filth of the
	flesh" (as is done by a mere water baptism, unaccompanied
	with the Spirit's baptism, compare 1 John 5:6- :), but of the soul. It is the ark (Christ and His
	Spirit-filled Church), not the water, which is the instrument of
	salvation: the water only flowed round the ark so not the mere water
	baptism, but the water when accompanied with the Spirit. 
	answer—Greek,
	"interrogation"; referring to the questions asked of
	candidates for baptism; eliciting a confession of faith "toward
	God" and a renunciation of Satan ([AUGUSTINE,
	The Creed, 4.1]; [CYPRIAN,
	Epistles, 7, To Rogatianus]), which, when flowing from
	"a good conscience," assure one of being "saved."
	Literally, "a good conscience's interrogation (including the
	satisfactory answer) toward God." I prefer this to the
	translation of WAHL,
	ALFORD and others,
	"inquiry of a good conscience after God": not
	one of the parallels alleged, not even 1 John 5:6- :, in the Septuagint, is strictly in point. Recent
	Byzantine Greek idiom (whereby the term meant: (1) the
	question; (2) the stipulation; (3) the engagement), easily flowing
	from the usage of the word as Peter has it, confirms the former
	translation. 
	by the resurrection of
	Jesus—joined with "saves you": In so far as baptism
	applies to us the power of Christ's resurrection. As Christ's death
	unto sin is the source of the believer's death unto, and so
	deliverance from, sin's penalty and power; so His resurrection life
	is the source of the believer's new spiritual life.