 21. ]  μή carries on the μή πως … μή πως , but with more precision, dropping the indefinite πως . The sentence loses much in force and, indeed, becomes inconsistent with the context, if with Lachmann (and Lücke, Conjectanea exeget. i. De W.) it be made interrogative (which it may be grammatically with either reading, ταπεινώσει or - σῃ ), in which case the answer would be  negative .
	 πάλιν here, as Meyer observes, must belong to the whole ελθόντος μου ταπεινώσει με ὁ θ . μ . πρὸς ὑμ ., because, ἐλθών having been used without πάλιν just before, the emphatic situation of πάλιν as applying to it would be unmeaning: see also the very different way in which it is connected with ἔλθω , ch. 2 Corinthians 13:2 .
	 ταπεινώσει ] ‘Nihil erat quo magis exultaret apostolus, quam prospero suæ prædicationis successu ( 1Th 2:20 ): contra nihil erat, unde tristiore et demissiore animo redderetur, quam quum cernerct, se frustra laborasse,’ Beza (Meyer). The fut. (ref.) indicates an assumption that the supposed case will really be. That this  humbling , and  not that of  being obliged to punish , is intended, seems evident: the exercise of judicial authority being no humiliation, but the contrary, and humiliation being the natural result of want of success.
	 ὁ θεός μου expresses the conviction that whatever humiliation God might have in store for him would be a part of His will respecting him.
	 πρὸς ὑμᾶς ]  among you , as the generality of interpreters: ‘  in regard to you,’ in my relation to you , as Meyer. Either may be meant: but if we take the former, we must not join it, as Grot., al., with ἐλθόντος : it belongs at all events to ταπεινώσει .
	 πενθήσω ] Theophyl. explains, μὴ ἐλθὼν κολάσῃ αὐτούς , καὶ πενθήσῃ διὰ τοῦτο · τουτέστι , τὰ ἔσχατα λυπηθῇ : so also al. and Billroth, Rückert, Olsh., and De Wette. But  punishment seems out of place in this verse, which expresses his fear lest he should be humbled for, and have to lament the case of the impenitent, and then, as he declares ch. 2 Corinthians 13:2 , be forced to proceed to discipline; but this point is not yet introduced. I much prefer therefore taking it as Chrys., p. 635, τοὺς μὴ μετανοοῦντας πενθαῖ , τοὺς τὰ ἀνίατα νοσοῦντας , τοὺς ἐν τῷ τραύματι μένοντας . ἐννόησον τοίνυν ἀποστολικὴν ἀρετήν , ὅταν μηδὲν ἑαυτῷ συνειδὼς πονηρόν , ὑρὲρ ἀλλοτρίων θρηνῇ κακῶν , καὶ ὑπὲρ τῶν ἑτέροις πλημμελημένων ταπεινῶται . τοῦτο γὰρ μάλιστα τοῦ διδασκάλου , τὸ οὕτω συναλγεῖν ταῖς τῶν μαθητῶν συμφοραῖς , τὸ κόπτεσθαι καὶ πενθεῖν ἐπὶ τοῖς τραύμασι τῶν ἀρχομένων . Similarly Calvin: ‘veri et germani Pastoris affectum nobis exprimit, quum luctu aliorum peccata se prosequuturum dicit. Et sane ita agendum est, ut suam quisque Pastor Ecclesiam animo inclusam gestet, ejus morbis perinde ac suis afficiatur, miseriis condolescat, peccato lugeat.’ So Estius, but perhaps too minutely fixing the meaning of πενθεῖν to mourning them as “Deo mortuos:” and Calovius (Meyer): “non de  pœna hic Corinthiorum impœnitentium, sed de mœrore suo super impœnitentia:” and so likewise Meyer.
	 πολλ. τ. προημ .] Why πολλούς ? Why not  all? I believe he uses πολλοὺς τῶν προημαρτηκότων as a  mild expression for τοὺς πολλοὺς τοὺς προημαρτηκότας , and that we must not therefore press too closely the enquiry as to what the genus οἱ προημ . is, of which the πολλοί are the species. Lücke (as above) cited by Meyer, explains “Cogitavit rem ita, ut primum poneret Christianorum ex ethnicis potissimum τῶν προημ . κ . μὴ μετανοησάντων genus universum, cujus generis homines essent ubique ecclesiarum, deinde vero ex isto hominum genere multos eos qui Corinthi essent, designaret definiretque.” But this seems travelling quite out of the way. Meyer explains the  genus to be all the sinners spoken of in 2 Corinthians 12:20 , the  species ( πολλούς ) those designated by ἀκαθαρς ., πορν ., and ἀσελγ . But this again is unnatural; and does not accurately fit 2 Corinthians 12:20 , in which not so much the προημαρτημένα as the present state at the Apostle’s coming, is the subject.
	The distinction between the two participles, προημ . and μετανοησάντων , should be observed. As Meyer well remarks, the perf. προημαρτηκότων denotes the permanence of the state from the time of the committal of the sin: Whereas the aor. μετανοησάντων has the sense of the ‘futurum exactum,’ “and who at my coming shall not have repented.”  To what does   προ  - refer ? to the time before their conversion? Hardly so: for the sins, of the incestuous person 1 Corinthians 5:0 , and of these also, which would give the Apostle such pain, must be conceived to have been committed  in their Christian state : being in fact those against which we find such repeated cautions in 1 Cor., e.g. ch. 1Co 5:11 ; 1 Corinthians 6:15 ; 1 Corinthians 6:18 ; 1Co 10:8 ; 1 Corinthians 15:33-34 . I would therefore understand the προ -  indefinitely , almost pleonastically pointing to  the priority of sin implied in the idea of repentance .
	 μεταν  .   ἐπί ] Meyer would join together πενθήσω … ἐπί , and indicates this as the natural connexion of  verb, object , and  ground . But to say nothing of the harshness of πενθήσω πολλοὺς ἐπί , and the almost necessarily  reflective form of μετανοης . ἐπὶ τῇ ἀκ .… ᾗ ἔπραξαν , I conceive the  aorist  ἔπραξαν to be fatal to this arrangement. Thus taken, it would make the Apostle lament over these impenitents, on account of the impurity, &c., which they ἔπραξαν i.e. once practised, but which is now gone by. The sense would require πεπράχασι . Whereas if connected with μετανοησάντων , the aorist expresses ‘and shall not have (repented of the ἀκ ., &c., which they practised),’ and would thus come rightly after  μετα νοης ., implying the removal of the former state of sin.
	 μεταν . is usually constructed with ἀπό , Acts 8:22 ( Heb 6:1 ), or ἐκ , Rev. only, Revelation 2:21 f.; Revelation 9:20 f; Revelation 16:11 ; but as Paul only uses the word this once, and as the construction with ἐπί is perfectly legitimate and highly expressive (see reff. LXX), there can be no objection to it here.