 7. ]  And that I might not, by the abundant excess of revelations (made to me),  be uplifted (the order of the words is chosen to bring τῇ ὑπερβ . κ . τ . λ . into the place of foremost emphasis: see reff. The διό can hardly stand with the present punctuation. If it forms part of the text, it must begin the sentence, and we must with Lachmann join καὶ τῇ ὑπερβ . τῶν ἀποκ . to the foregoing, as in apposition with ἀσθενείαις . But thus a very strange sense would be given),  there was given me (‘  by God :’ certainly not, as Meyer, al., by  Satan , of whom such an expression as ἐδόθη would surely hardly be used: cf. ἡ χάρις ἡ δοθεῖσά μοι , so often said by the Apostle, Romans 12:3 ; Romans 12:6 ; Rom 15:15 al., and the absolute use of ἐδόθη for  bestowed, portioned out by God , 1Co 11:15 ; 1 Corinthians 12:7-8 ; Galatians 3:21 ; Jam 1:5 )  a thorn (the word may signify a  stake , or  sharp pointed staff , ξύλον ὀξύ , Hesych [23] , so in Hom. Il. σ . 176, κεφαλὴν … πῆξαι ἀνὰ σκολόπεσσι ; but in the LXX, reff., it is ‘  a thorn ,’ and such is the more likely meaning here. Meyer cites from Artemid. iii. 33, ἄκανθαι καὶ σκόλοπες ὀδύνας σημαίνουσι διὰ τὸ ὀξύ (compare ref. Ezek., σκόλοψ πικρίας καὶ ἄκανθα ὀδύνης ). See however Stanley’s note, who rejects the meaning ‘  thorn ,’ and supposes the figure to refer to the punishment of impalement)  in my flesh (the expression used Gal 4:14 of this same affliction, τὸν πειρασμὸν ὑμῶν ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου , seems decisive for rendering the dative thus, and not as a dativus incommodi: see also ref. 1 Cor.),  the (  or an )  angel of Satan (even if we read σατᾶν , it can only be the genitive. If taken as the nom., the expression would mean either,  a hostile angel , which would be contrary to the universal usage of Satan, as a proper name: or,  the angel Satan , which is equally inconsistent with N. T. usage, according to which Satan, though once an angel, is now ἄρχων τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ ἀέρος , Ephesians 2:2 , and has his own angels, Mat 25:41 ),  that he (  the angel of Satan , not the σκόλοψ , which would be an unnecessary confusion of metaphors. ‘The continuation of a discourse often belongs to the  word in apposition , not to the main subject,’ Meyer)  may buffet me ( κολαφίζῃ is best thus expressed, in the  present . The aorist would denote merely  one such  act of insult. Thus Chrys.: … ὥστε …  διηνεκοῦς δεῖσθαι τοῦ χαλινοῦ · οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν , ἵνα κολαφίσῃ , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα κολαφίζῃ , Theophyl., οὐχ ἵνα ἅπαξ με κολαφίσῃ , ἀλλ ʼ ἀεί , and similarly (Ecum.),  that I may not be uplifted (the repetition gives force and solemnity, expressing his firm persuasion of the divine intention in thus afflicting him).
	 [23] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	As regards the  thorn itself , very many, and some very absurd conjectures have been hazarded. They may be resolved into three heads, the two former of which are, from the nature of the case, out of the question (see below): (1) that Paul alludes to  spiritual solicitations of the devil (‘injectiones Satanæ’), who suggested to him blasphemous thoughts, so Gerson, Luther (how characteristically!), Calov., or remorse for his former life, so Osiander, Mosheim, &c.: or according to the Romanist interpreters, who want to find here a precedent for their monkish stories of temptations,  incitements to lust , so Thom. Aq., Lyra, Bellarmin, Estius, Corn.-a-Lapide, al. (2) that he alludes to  opposition from his adversaries , or  some one adversary κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν ; so many ancient Commentators, Chrys., Theophyl., Œcum., Theodoret, Calvin, Beza, al., and more recently, Fritzsche, and Schrader. (3) that he points to  some grievous bodily pain , which has been curiously specified by different Commentators. The ancients (Chrys., Theophyl., Œcum., Jerome on Galatians 4:14 (lib. ii. vol. vii. p. 460)) mention κεφαλαλγία : some have supposed  hypochondriac melancholy , which however hardly answers the conditions of a σκόλοψ , in which  acute pain seems to be implied; alii aliter, see Pool, Synops. ad loc.; and Stanley’s note, which is important in other respects also, and full of interest.
	On the whole, putting together the figure here used, that of a  thorn , occasioning pain, and the κολαφισμός ,  buffeting or putting to shame , it seems quite necessary to infer that the Apostle alludes to  some painful and tedious bodily malady, which at the same time put him to shame before those among whom he exercised his ministry. Of such a kind  may have been the disorder in his eyes, more or less indicated in several passages of his history and Epistles (see notes on Acts 13:9 ; Acts 23:1 f.: and Gal 4:14 (15?); 2 Corinthians 6:11 (?)). But it may also have been something besides this, and to such an inference probability would lead us; disorders in the eyes, however sad in their consequences, not being usually of a very painful or distressing nature  in themselves .