 9. ]  And He said to me (this perf. can hardly in English be represented otherwise than by the historical aorist; in the Greek, it partakes of its own proper sense ‘  He said, and that answer is enough:’ ‘He hath said ,’ but this last would not contain reference enough to the  fact itself. The poverty of our language in the finer distinctions of the tenses often obliges us to render inaccurately, and fall short of, the wonderful language with which we have to deal.
	 How this was said, whether accompanied by an appearance of Christ to him or not, must remain in obscurity),  My grace (not, ‘My favour generally;’ ‘  My imparted grace ’)  is sufficient for thee (  ἀρκεῖ , spoken from the divine omniscience,‘  suffices, and shall suffice :’ q. d. ‘  the trial must endure, untaken away: but the grace shall also endure, and never fail thee ’),  for (the reason lying in My ways being not as man’s ways, My Power not being brought to perfection as man’s power is conceived to be) (  My) Power is made perfect (has its full energy and complete manifestation)  in (as the element in which it acts as observable by man)  weakness . See ch. 2 Corinthians 4:7 , and 1 Corinthians 2:3-4 , where the influence of this divine response on the Apostle, is very manifest. If I mistake not,  the expression  τῆς δυνάμεως ,  there , favours the omission of μου here, as in our text, and makes it probable that it was inserted for perspicuity’s sake, and to answer to ἡ δύν . τοῦ χρ . below.
	 Most gladly therefore will I rather (than that my affliction should be removed from me, which before that response, I wished)  boast ( καυχ . is in the emphatic place, I will rather boast in mine infirmities. Had μᾶλλον signified ‘  rather than in revelations ,’ or ‘  rather than in any thing else ,’ it would have been μᾶλλον ἐν ταῖς ἀσθενείαις μου καυχήσομαι )  in my infirmities, that (by my ἀσθένειαι being not removed from me, but becoming my glory)  the Power of Christ may have its residence in me (see ref. Polyb. ‘may carry on in me its work unto completion,’ as above).