 2. ]  I know (not, ‘  knew ,’ as E. V.: which [is a mistake in grammar, and] introduces serious confusion, making it seem as if the πρὸ ἐτῶν δεκατ . were the date of the  knowledge , not, as it really is, of the  vision )  a man in Christ ( ἐν χρ . belongs to ἄνθρ ., not to οἶδα as Beza; ἄνθ . ἐν χρ . = ‘a Christian,’ ‘a man whose standing is in Christ:’ so οἳ καὶ πρὸ ἐμοῦ γέγοναν ἐν χριστῷ , Rom 16:7 ),  fourteen years ago (belongs not to οἶδα , nor to ἐν χρ . as Grot.: ‘hominem talem, qui per 14 annos Christo serviat;’ but to ἁρπαγέντα . On the  idiom see reff., the  date probably refers back to the time when he was at Tarsus waiting for God to point out his work, between Acts 9:30 ; Acts 11:25 . See the chronological table in the Prolegomena),  whether in the body, I know not, or out of the body, I know not: God knoweth (if  in the body , the idea would be that he was taken up  bodily : if  out of the body , to which the alternative manifestly inclines, that his spirit was rapt from the body, and taken up disembodied. Aug [19] de genesi ad litteram xii. 2 5 (3 14), vol. iii. pp. 455 ff., discusses the matter at length, and concludes thus, ‘Proinde quod vidit raptus usque in tertium cœlum, quod etiam se scire confirmat, proprie vidit, non imaginaliter. Sed quia ipsa a corpore alienata utrum omnino mortuum corpus reliquerit, an secundum modum quendam viventis corporis ibi anima fuerit, sed mens ejus ad videnda vel audienda ineffabilia illius visionis arrepta sit, hoc incertum erat, ideo forsitan dixit, “sive in corpore sive extra corpus, nescio, Deus scit.” ’, And similarly Thom. Aq. and Estius: not, as Meyer thinks, making the alternative consist between  reality and a  mere vision , but between the  anima , the  life , being rapt out of the body, leaving it dead, and the  mens , the  intelligence or  spirit , being rapt out of the body, leaving it ‘secundum modum quendam vivens’);  such an one (so τὸν τοιοῦτον  resumes after a parenthesis, 1Co 5:5 ),  rapt (snatched or taken up, reff.)  as far as the third heaven .
	 [19]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 What is the third heaven ? The Jews knew no such number, but commonly (not universally: Rabbi Judah said, “Duo sunt cœli, Deu 10:14 ”) recognized  seven heavens: and if their arrangement is to be followed, the third heaven will be very low in the celestial scale, being only the  material clouds . That the threefold division into the  air (nubi-ferum), the  sky (astriferum), and the  heaven (angeliferum), was in use among the Jews, Meyer regards as a  fiction of Grotius. Certainly no Rabbinical authority is given for such a statement: but it is put forward confidently by Grotius, and since his time adopted without enquiry by many Commentators. It is uncertain whether the  sevenfold division prevailed so early as the Apostle’s time: and at all events, as we must not invent Jewish divisions which never existed, so it seems rash to apply here, one about whose date we are not certain, and which does not suit the context: for to be rapt only to the clouds, even supposing 2Co 12:4 to relate a further  assumption , would hardly be thus solemnly introduced, or the preposition ἕως used. The safest explanation therefore is,  not to follow any fixed division , but judging by the evident intention of the expression, to understand a  high degree of celestial exaltation. I cannot see any cogency in Meyer’s argument, that ‘the third heaven must have been an idea well known and previously defined among his readers,’ seeing that in such words as τρὶς μακάριος , &c. it is manifestly inapplicable.