 14. ]  τρίτον (the τοῦτο , though so strongly attested, can hardly have been  omitted , had it ever been in the text, and therefore has probably been inserted from ch. 2Co 13:1 )  ἑτ  .   ἔχω ἐλθ ., must,  from the context , mean,  I am ready to come the third time ; not, ‘  I am the third time ready to come ,’ i.e. ‘this is the third time that I have been  ready to come to you.’ This latter meaning has been adopted by Beza, Grot., Estius, al., Paley, al., and even De Wette, hesitatingly, in order to evade the difficulty of supposing Paul to have been before this twice at Corinth. But on this see Prolegomena to 1 Cor. § v. Here, the context has absolutely nothing to do with his  third preparation to come, which would be a new element, requiring some explanation, as in 1 Thessalonians 2:18 . The natural, and, I am persuaded, only true inference from the words here is, ‘I am coming to you a third time, and I will not burden you this time, any more than I did at  my two previous visits .’
	Our business in such cases is, not to wrest plain words to fit our preconceived chronology, but to adapt our  confessedly uncertain and imperfect history of the Apostle’s life , to the data furnished by the plain honest sense of his Epistles.
	 οὐ γὰρ ζητῶ …] Wetst. quotes Cicero de Fin. ii. 26: ‘Me igitur ipsum ames oportet, non mea, si veri amici futuri sumus.’ μείζονα ἐπιζητῶ , ψυχὰς ἀντὶ χρημάτων , σωτηρίαν ἀντὶ χρυσίου , Chrys., p. 629.
	 οὐ γὰρ ὀφείλει …] Paul was the  spiritual father of the Corinthian Church, 1 Corinthians 4:14-15 ; he does not therefore want to be  enriched by them , his children, but rather to  lay up riches for them , seeking to have them as his treasure, and thus to  enrich them , as a loving father does his children. The θησαυρός is left indefinite: if pressed strictly, it cannot be  earthly treasure in the  negative part of the sentence,  heavenly , in the  positive ; cf. next verse.
	Notice, ὀφείλει is not impersonal, but the common verb to τέκνα and γονεῖς , agreeing by proximity with the former.