 3, 4. ]  A solemn repetition of the foregoing, with the additional particular of his having had unspeakable revelations made to him . Some, as Clem [20] Strom. 2 Corinthians 12:12 (80), p. 693 P., Iren [21] ii. 30.7, p. 162, Athan. Revelation 20:0 , vol. i. p. 263, Orig [22] (or his interpreter) on Rom. xvi. lib. x. 43, vol. iv. p. 688, Œcum., al., think that this was a  fresh assumption , ἕως τρίτου οὐρανοῦ κἀκεῖθεν εἰς τὸν παράδεισον , and with these Meyer agrees: but surely had this been intended, some intimation would have been given of it, either by καί , or by placing εἰς τὸν παράδεισον (as the stress would be then no longer on the fact ἁρπαγῆναι as before, but on the  new place to which ἡρπάγη ) in the place of emphasis before ἡρπάγη ; or, by both combined, ὅτι καὶ εἰς τὸν παράδεισον ἡρπάγη . As it is, with the verb  preceding in both clauses, and therefore no prominence given to the places as distinguished from one another, I must hold ἕως τρίτου οὐρ . to be at least so far equivalent to εἰς τὸν παράδεισον , as to be a general local description of the situation in which ὁ παράδεισος is found. The  repetition of εἴτε … οἶδεν is equally accountable on either explanation, being made for solemnity and emphasis.
	 [20] Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [21] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	 [22] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	The  παράδεισος cannot here be the Jewish Paradise, the blissful division or side of Hades (Scheol), where the spirits of the just awaited the resurrection, see note on Luke 16:22 , but the Paradise of which our Lord spoke on the Cross, the place of happiness into which He at His Death introduced the spirits of the just: see on ref. Luke.
	 ἄῤῥητα ῥήματα , i.e. as explained below,  words which it is not lawful to utter : as Vulg., “  arcana verba, quæ non licet homini loqui .” The interpretation, “  quæ dici nequeunt ,” as Beza, Estius, Calov., Olsh., al., is hardly consistent with the narrative; for in that case, as Bengel remarks, ‘Paulus non potuisset audire.’ The passages adduced by Wetst. mostly refer to the  mysteries , or some secret rites: e.g. Demosth. contra Neæram, p.1369, αὕτη ἡ γυνὴ ὑμῖν ἔθυε τὰ ἄῤῥητα ἱερὰ ὑπὲρ τῆς πόλεως , καὶ εἶδεν , ἃ οὐ προσῆκεν αὐτὴν ὁρᾷν ξένην οὖσαν .
	 ἃ οὐκ ἐξόν ]  which it is not lawful for a MAN  to utter (see above): imparted by God, but not to be divulged to others: and therefore, in this case, intended, we may presume, for the Apostle’s own consolation and encouragement.  Of what kind they were, on  by whom uttered, we have no hint given, and it were worse than trifling to conjecture. “Sublimitatis certe magnæ fuere: nam non omnia cœlestia sunt ineffabilia, v. gr. Exodus 34:6 , Isaiah 6:3 , quæ tamen valde sublimia.” Bengel.