 1. ] (I have in recent editions  suspended the very difficult question of this reading, not finding it possible to decide whether of the two deserves a place in the text. Meantime, the rec. is left in, and on it the following note is written.) Let only the two readings καυχᾶσθαι δὴ οὐ συμφέρει μοι , ἐλεύσομαι γάρ , and καυχᾶσθαι δεῖ , οὐ συμφέρον μέν · ἐλεύσομαι δέ , be compared, and it would certainly seem as if the former more resembled the nervous elliptic irony of the great Apostle, and the latter the tame conventional propriety of the grammatical correctors. The other variations, δέ for δή , and the prefixing of εἰ , are too palpable emendations to require critical treatment. The difficulty however is considerably lessened, when the right connexion is borne in mind.  To boast, verily, is not to my advantage : for (i.e. it will be shewn to be so, by the following fact of a  correction administered to me ἵνα μὴ ὑπεραίρωμαι ) (on the other reading,  I must boast, though it is not to my advantage: but) I will proceed to visions and revelations of the Lord . δή in this sense implies a  consciousness of a reason why the assertion is true , and is therefore naturally followed by γάρ , if the sentence is completed. The same sense is found in Plato, Phæd. p. 60, ὦ Σώκρατες , ὕστατον δὴ σὲ προσεροῦσι νῦν οἱ ἐπιτήδειοι , καὶ σὺ τούτους , the completion of the sense being, ‘for you are to die to-night:’ πολλοὶ κακῶς πράσσουσιν , οὐ σὺ δὴ μόνος , Eur. Hec. 464: i.e. οὐ σὺ δὴ μόνος κακῶς πράσσεις , πολλοὶ γὰρ ἄλλοι … (See Hartung, Partikellehre i. 270, who however explains δή in these examples somewhat differently.) The force of it here then, is: “  I am well aware that to boast is not good for me: for I will come to an instance in which it was so shewn to me .”
	 εἰς ὀπτ  .   κ  .   ἀπ  .   κυρ .] q. d. ‘  and the instances I will select are just of that kind in which, if boasting ever were good, it might be allowed :’ thus the γάρ gives a more complete proof.  ὀπτασία is the form or manner of receiving ἀποκάλυψις , the revelation. There can hardly be an ὀπτασία without an ἀποκάλυψις of some kind. Therefore Theophylact’s distinction is scarcely correct, ἡ ἀποκάλυψις πλέον τι ἔχει τῆς ὀπτασίας · ἡ μὲν γὰρ μόνον βλέπειν δίδωσιν · αὕτη δὲ καί τι βαθύτερον τοῦ ὁρωμένου ἀπογυμνοῖ .
	 κυρίου , gen. subj.,  vouchsafed me by the Lord , not obj., ‘  of [i.e. revealing]  the Lord ’ [as the subject of the vision], for such is not that which follows.
	No particular polemical reason, as the practice of particular parties at Corinth to allege visions, &c. (Baur), need be sought for the narration of this vision: Paul’s object is  general , and the means taken to attain it are simply subordinate to it, viz. the vindication of his apostolic character.