1. we also—as well as those
	recounted in Hebrews 12:11. 
	are compassed about—Greek,
	"have so great a cloud (a numberless multitude above us,
	like a cloud, 'holy and pellucid,' [CLEMENT
	OF ALEXANDRIA]) of
	witnesses surrounding us." The image is from a "race,"
	an image common even in Palestine from the time of the
	Greco-Macedonian empire, which introduced such Greek usages as
	national games. The "witnesses" answer to the spectators
	pressing round to see the competitors in their contest for the prize
	(Philippians 3:14). Those "witnessed
	of" (Greek, Hebrews 11:5;
	Hebrews 11:39) become in their turn
	"witnesses" in a twofold way: (1) attesting by their own
	case the faithfulness of God to His people [ALFORD]
	(Hebrews 6:12), some of them
	martyrs in the modern sense; (2) witnessing our struggle of
	faith; however, this second sense of "witnesses," though
	agreeing with the image here if it is to be pressed, is not
	positively, unequivocally, and directly sustained by
	Scripture. It gives vividness to the image; as the crowd of
	spectators gave additional spirit to the combatants, so the cloud
	of witnesses who have themselves been in the same contest, ought
	to increase our earnestness, testifying, as they do, to God's
	faithfulness. 
	weight—As corporeal
	unwieldiness was, through a disciplinary diet, laid aside by
	candidates for the prize in racing; so carnal and worldly lusts, and
	all, whether from without or within, that would impede the heavenly
	runner, are the spiritual weight to be laid aside.
	"Encumbrance," all superfluous weight; the lust of
	the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride of life, and even
	harmless and otherwise useful things which would positively retard us
	(Mark 10:50, the blind man
	casting away his garment to come to Jesus; Mark 10:50- :; compare Ephesians 4:22;
	Colossians 3:9; Colossians 3:10).
	the sin which doth so easily
	beset us—Greek, "sin which easily stands around
	us"; so LUTHER,
	"which always so clings to us": "sinful propensity
	always surrounding us, ever present and ready" [WAHL].
	It is not primarily "the sin," c., but sin in
	general, with, however, special reference to "apostasy,"
	against which he had already warned them, as one to which they might
	gradually be seduced the besetting sin of the Hebrews,
	UNBELIEF. 
	with patience—Greek,
	"in persevering endurance" (Colossians 3:10- :). On "run" compare 1 Corinthians 9:24;
	1 Corinthians 9:25.