17. afterwards—Greek,
	"even afterward." He despised his birthright,
	accordingly also he was despised and rejected when he wished
	to have the blessing. As in the believer's case, so in the
	unbeliever's, there is an "afterwards" coming, when the
	believer shall look on his past griefs, and the unbeliever on his
	past joys, in a very different light from that in which they were
	respectively viewed at the time. Compare "Nevertheless
	afterward," c. Hebrews 12:11,
	with the "afterward" here. 
	when he would—when he
	wished to have. "He that will not when he may, when he
	will, shall have nay" (Proverbs 1:24-30
Luke 13:34; Luke 13:35;
	Luke 19:42). 
	he was rejected—not as
	to every blessing, but only that which would have followed the
	primogeniture. 
	he found no place of
	repentance—The cause is here put for the effect,
	"repentance" for the object which Esau aimed at in his
	so-called repentance, namely, the change of his father's
	determination to give the chief blessing to Jacob. Had he sought
	real repentance with tears he would have found it (Luke 19:42- :). But he did not find it because this was not what he sought.
	What proves his tears were not those of one seeking true
	repentance is, immediately after he was foiled in his desire, he
	resolved to murder Jacob! He shed tears, not for his sin, but for his
	suffering the penalty of his sin. His were tears of vain regret and
	remorse, not of repentance. "Before, he might have had the
	blessing without tears; afterwards, no matter how many tears he shed,
	he was rejected. Let us use the time" (Luke 19:42- :)! [BENGEL].
	ALFORD explains
	"repentance" here, a chance, by repenting, to repair
	(that is, to regain the lost blessing). I agree with him that the
	translation, instead of "repentance," "no place for
	changing HIS FATHER'S
	mind," is forced; though doubtless this is what was the
	true aim of the "repentance" which he sought. The language
	is framed to apply to profane despisers who wilfully cast away
	grace and seek repentance (that is, not real; but escape
	from the penalty of their sin), but in vain. Compare "afterward,"
	Matthew 25:11; Matthew 25:12.
	Tears are no proof of real repentance (1 Samuel 24:16;
	1 Samuel 24:17; contrast 1 Samuel 24:17- :). 
	it—the blessing,
	which was the real object of Esau, though ostensibly seeking
	"repentance."