 2 .]  Beloved, now are we children of God (the world recognizes us not: but our sonship is real: none the less real, that we ourselves know not our future condition in all its manifestation. So that the next member of the sentence is introduced not with an ἀλλά , but with a καί : the two are not contrasted, but simply put in juxtaposition as components of our present state. We are really sons of God, even  now : and we look (this very word νῦν suggesting a future) for an inheritance in virtue of that sonship: it has not been yet manifested of what sort that inheritance shall be: thus much we know &c. Such seems to be the simple connexion, without any adversative particles expressed or understood),  and it was never yet manifested (on any occasion: such is the force of the aor. And  ἐφανερώθη , as so often in St. John, and as in the next sentence, does not mean, made manifest to  knowledge or  anticipation , for that it is, as asserted below: but, shewn forth  in actuality , come to its manifestation)  what we shall be (understand, in virtue of this our state of sons of God: to what new development or condition this already existing fact will lead. But we must take care not to fall into Grot.’s error, “quo modo futuri simus filii Dei:” for as Calov. rightly remarks, “non dantur gradus υἱότητος :” we are as truly, and in the same sense, children of God now, as we shall be then: but now (cf. Gal 4:1 ) we are children waiting for an unknown inheritance then we shall be children in full possession of that inheritance. And hence, from the reality and identity of that sonship, comes what follows, our certain knowledge, even in this absence of manifestation in detail, that our future condition will consist in likeness to Him. As Œc., τὸ γὰρ νῦν ἄδηλον φανερὸν γενήσεται , ἐκείνου ἀποκαλυπτομένου . ὅμοιοι γὰρ αὐτῷ ἀναφανέντες τὸ τῆς υἱοθεσίας λαμπρὸν παραστήσομεν . οἱ γὰρ υἱοὶ πάντες ὅμοιοι τῷ πατρί ).  We know (no contrast see above: what we know of this τί ἐσόμεθα is this. There is not even a  correction of the preceding as Düsterd.: the connexion is simply, “This future condition of ours hath never yet appeared: thus much we know of it.”  οἴδαμεν , as always, of certain, well assured cognition)  that if it were manifested (viz. the τἱ ἐσόμεθα ; this φανερωθῇ takes up again the former one. So Didymus (Aug [39] is quoted on both sides by the Commentators, but he does not really commit himself on the point), Œc. ( τὸ γὰρ νῦν ἄδηλον φανερὸν γενήσεται ), Luther, Seb.-Schmidt, Socinus, Episcopius, Schlichting, Grotius, Spener, Bengel, Benson, Rosenm., Lücke, Sander, De Wette, Baumg.-Crus., Neander, Düsterd., Huther, and others: on the other hand, Bed [40] , Calvin, Beza (and the E. V.: Tyndale and Cranmer had “  it ”), Aretius, Whitby, Calov., Estius, al., supply “  He ,” understanding  Christ : appealing to St. John’s well-known usage which we have in ch. 1 John 2:28 , and below in our 1 John 3:5 . But it may be replied, that in the former case the subject was plainly suggested by ἐν αὐτῷ in the latter actually expressed in ἐκεῖνος : whereas here the reference of the verb is no less plainly given by the preceding ἐφανερώθη . Besides which, ἐκεῖνος in 1Jn 3:5 clearly shews that the divine subject of these verses is not Christ but the Father. Estius and Lyra indeed seem to hold it possible to supply ὁ θεός as a subject to φανερωθῇ here, but not even themselves have propounded this for their own interpretation: indeed the former sets it aside, and the latter seems to be only paraphrasing when he says, “cum nobis se patrem ostenderit in possessione cœlestis hæreditatis.” On the  ἐάν , hypothetical, see above, ch. 1 John 2:28 . As there, the φανερωθῇ is the futurus exactus: “on its manifestation:” and here the hypothesis, from the repetition of the verb, necessarily gains, emphasis, almost = that,  even if it were manifested, … This consideration has an important bearing on what follows),  we stall be (  ἐσόμεθα taken up again from above, and the emphatic ὅμοιοι αὐτῷ corresponding exactly to τί above)  like Him (  God ; as Œc. above, and most Commentators. See below),  because (  ὅτι must be kept firm to its causal meaning, and all the difficulties of the sentence met thus, not by explaining it away, as even Œc. ( ἀλλὰ καί ), Schol. ii. ( ὅτε καί ), Luther (  et ). Nor does it express merely the  mode of the transformation, as Lyra. Still less must we, with Calvin (“neque enim docet similes ideo nos fore, quia fruemur adspectu, sed inde probat nos divinæ gloriæ fore participes, quia nisi spiritualis et cœlesti beataque immortalitate prædita esset natura, ad Deum nunquam tum prope accederet”), Seb.-Schmidt (“Qui visurus est Deum sicuti est, eum oportet esse perfecte similem Deo”), and Socinus (“neque enim fieri potest ut quia ipsum Deum videat, … nisi ei similis aliquo modo.… fuerit”), and so even Huther, endorsing Calvin’s statement, “ratio hæc ab eftectu sumta est non a causa,” reverse the causal connexion, and make the seeing Him as He is merely a proof that we shall be like Him ( ὅτι = γάρ ). Whatever consequences it may entail, it is philologically certain that the proposition introduced by ὅτι contains the real essential cause and ground of that which it follows)  we shall see Him (God: see below)  as He is (with St. John, the recognition and knowledge of God is ever no mere cognition, but the measure of the spiritual life: he who has it, possesses God, has the Father and the Son: becomes more and more like God, having His seed in him. So that the full and perfect accomplishment of this knowledge in the actual fruition of God Himself must of necessity bring with it entire likeness to God. And this is the part of the future lot of the sons of God which is certain. Because we shall see Him as He is, which is taken for granted as a Christian axiom, it of necessity follows that we shall be entirely like Him: ethically like Him: we shall behold, as Œc., δίκαιον δίκαιοι , ἀγνὸν ἁγνοί . The difficulty that no man can see God, is not in reality contained here, any more than it is in our Lord’s “Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall  see God.” The word, however understood, has for its limit, that no created eye even in the glorified body can behold the Creator: that beyond its keenest search there will be glory and perfection baffling and dazzling it: but this incapacity does not prevent the vision, as far as it can reach, being clear and unclouded: being, to the utmost extent of which our glorified nature is capable, ὡς ἔστιν a true and not a false vision of God. And if it be again objected that we seem to be thus confounding the ethical sight of God which is the measure of our likeness to God, with corporeal sight of Him in the resurrection body, I answer that in the realm where our thoughts are now employed, I cannot appreciate that distinction between ethical and corporeal. We are speaking of things which eye hath not seen, nor mind conceived: what a σῶμα πνευματικόν may imply, our ideas now do not enable us to conceive: but I suppose it must at all events be a body, all of whose senses are spiritually conditioned and attuned: that what τὰ φυσικά are to our bodies here, τὰ πνευματικά will be there: and feeling this, however little I may know of the details of the great fact, it removes from me all insuperable difficulty as to the ὀψόμεθα αὐτὸν καθὼς ἐστίν . “I know that in my flesh I shall see God,” may not be the right expression in Job, but it is the expression of my hopes as a son of God: it is the one expression of a hope in which all other hopes culminate and centre. And every son of God knows, that for it ever to be fulfilled, he must be growing onward in likeness to Him, pure, even up into His purity: for in His light only shall we see light.
	 [39]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [40] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	The literature of this verse would far surpass our limits, even in an abridged summary. It will be found in Düsterdieck’s Commentary, vol. ii. pp. 56 82.
	One point only must be noticed before passing onward; the fact that several of the great interpreters understand αὐτῷ and αὐτόν of  Christ . This has partly of course been occasioned by their supplying Christ as a subject to the verb φανερωθῇ above. Augustine has one of his most beautiful passages, explaining how at Christ’s appearing, the impious shall see only  formam servi , but we  formam Dei . The whole view, however, does not satisfy the requirements of the passage. It is the τέκνα θεοῦ who are addressed: and the topic of exhortation is that they be righteous as God their Father is righteous. Christ is expressly introduced below in 1 John 3:5 (see on 1Jn 3:3 ) by ἐκεῖνος . Augustine concludes with a burst of eloquence which describes just as well the true view of the vision: “Ergo visuri sumus quandam visionem, fratres, quam nec oculus vidit, nec auris audivit, nec in cor hominis ascendit: visionem quandam, visionem præcellentem omnes pulchritudines terrenas, auri, argenti, nemorum atque camporum, pulchritudinem maris et aëris, pulchritudinem solis et lunæ, pulchritudinem angelorum, omnia superantem, quia ex ipsa pulchra sunt omnia.” Tract. in Ep. Joh. iv. 5, vol. iii. p. 2008).