 3 .]  And every one that hath this hope (viz., that of being like Him hereafter)  on Him (i. e. rested and grounded on God. In God, and grounded on His promises, is all our hope),  purifieth himself (these words are not to be taken in any Pelagian sense, as if a man could of himself purify himself: “apart from me,” says our Lord, “ye can do nothing.” John 15:5 . The man who purifies himself has this hope, resting upon God. This mere fact implies a will to purify himself, not out of, nor independent of, this hope, but ever stirred up by, and accompanying it. So that the will is not his own, sprung out of his own nature, but the result of his Christian state, in which God also ministers to him the power to carry out that will in self-purification. So that Aug [41] who pleads strongly for free will here, is right when he says “castificas te, non de te, sed de illo qui venit ut inhabitet te.” See 2 Corinthians 7:1 , which is remarkably parallel: and 1 Peter 1:21-22 . The idea of ἁγνίζειν is much the same as that of καθαρίζειν , ch. 1 John 1:9 ; it is entire purification, not merely from unchastity but from all defilement of flesh and spirit. “In the LXX, the word ( ἁγνός ) appears to be synonymous with καθαρός , being used for טָהוֹר and like words. Levitical purity of persons and things (Numbers 8:21 ; Numbers 31:19 ; Numbers 31:23 ; 1Ch 15:12 ), the pure life of the Nazarenes ( Num 6:2-3 ), the purity of God’s word (Psalms 11:7 ; Psa 18:10 ), all these are expressed by ἁγνός , ἁγνίζειν &c. And correspondent to this is N. T. usage. The purity of the wisdom that cometh from above ( Jam 3:17 ), the purity of those who had to keep a vow (Acts 21:24 ; Acts 21:26 ; Act 24:18 ), the absence of moral stain in the Christian character generally, which includes above all things purity of heart (1 Peter 1:22 ; James 4:8 ; 2Co 6:6 ; 1 Timothy 5:22 ; cf. Philippians 4:8 ; 1Pe 3:2 ), and the particular purity of chastity (Titus 2:5 ; 1Ti 4:12 ; 1 Timothy 5:2 ; 2Co 11:2 ), all these are rightly included in the name ἁγνεία .” Düsterdieck),  even as He is pure (Who is intended by ἐκεῖνος ? Clearly below in 1 John 3:5 , Christ, from the facts of the case. But is it as clear here? Almost all the modern Commentators assume it. And certainly, first appearances are greatly in its favour: the usual rule requiring that ἐκεῖνος shall point to a third person as yet not spoken of in the context, and differing from αὐτός . The inference is also upheld by a first view of ch. 1 John 2:6 , where much the same expression is used, and used of Christ. But there are some weighty considerations against the view. First, it is the  Father , of whom it is written, “Be ye holy, for (or, as) I am holy,” 1 Peter 1:15-16 ; Leviticus 11:44 ; Leviticus 19:2 ; cf. also Matthew 5:48 . Secondly, it would be very harsh thus to introduce a new subject, in the face of this Scripture usage. Thirdly, it would be against the whole spirit of the context: in which sonship of God and likeness to God are joined together, and the hopes belonging to the state are made motives for the duty. Fourthly, if it be asserted that Christ is our Pattern, in whom we see the Father’s purity shewn forth; I answer that this would be perfectly intelligible, if allusion was made, as in ch. 1 John 2:6 , to some historical manifestation in our Lord’s life ( καθὼς ἐκεῖνος περιεπάτησεν ): but being as it is in the present tense, it refers to the essential divine attribute of purity: and if so, then to that attribute in its primary inherence in the Father. Fifthly, the usage of ἐκεῖνος with αὐτός does not at all require the change of persons, only a change of the phase of predication regarding the same person, and the throwing up into emphasis some new particular which is brought into view. See this discussed on 2 Timothy 2:26 , and consult also the note on ch. 1 John 2:6 , where it is very doubtful whether αὐτός and ἐκεῖνος do not refer to the same divine Person. For these reasons, I would interpret ἐκεῖνος here of the Father, in whom essentially abides this perfection of purity, and after continual increase of likeness to whom his sons, having the ultimate hope of being completely like Him, will be striving. In 1Jn 3:5 the case is otherwise: see there, and also on 1Jn 3:7 ).
	 [41]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430