 10 .] “  Epilogus superioris argumenti ,” as Luther: with the insertion, in the latter half, of the new particular which is to form the argument of the next section. But this latter half belongs not only to that next section, but to this as well: its assertion πᾶς ὁ μὴ κ . τ . λ ., is requisite for the carrying out fully of the  ἐν τούτῳ , which at the same time looks backward and forward: backward, for the children of God have already been designated by the absence of sin, 1 John 3:9 ; forward, for the children of the devil are designated below by the presence of sin in the second half of the verse. In this (fact, circumstance:  in better than  by , which gives the idea that this is the  only sign)  are manifest (it has been asked,  to whom? Lücke, Sander, and Düsterd say, to God’s unerring eye alone. True, in the full and deep truth of the saying: but surely in degree and proportion to those whom the unction from the Holy One enables to know all things: in proportion as sin is manifested, or hatred and avoidance of sin is manifested, in a character. And the especial sign which follows, the sin of hate, is one which is plainly open to men’s eyes, at least in its ordinary manifestations)  the children of God and the children of the devil (see these expressions explained and vindicated from the charge of dualism, above, 1 John 3:8 . Cf. John 8:44 , Acts 13:10 . Socinus remarks well, “Ex Apostoli verbis satis aperte colligi potest, quod inter filios Dei et filios diaboli nulli sint homines medii”):  every one that doeth not righteousness (see ch. 1 John 2:29 ; the difference here being that δικαιος . having no art. is more general, whereas it was  τὴν δικαιος . there in reference to the δίκαιος which was predicated of God. It is natural that, in a recapitulation, the language should be more general, though the same thing is intended)  is not of God (= is not a child of God. It may be observed that Orig [52] , Tert [53] , Cypr [54] , al. read ὁ μὴ ὢν δίκαιος , which is edited by Lachmann),  and he that loveth not his brother (see below, these words pointing on to the next section).
	 [52] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [53]  Tertullian , 200
	 [54]  Cyprian, Bp. of Carthage , 248 258