 4 .] In this verse we have 1Jn 3:3 taken up (cf. πᾶς ὁ ἔχων .… πᾶς ὁ ποιῶν ) ex adverso. There, God’s essential purity formed a law, according to which the child of God, having hope of ultimate complete likeness to Him, purifies himself. Here we have it declared that the sinner goes counter to (this and all other) law: indeed the two terms, sin and lawlessness, are synonymous and convertible.  Every one that committeth sin, also committeth transgression-of-law: and sin (abstract and in general)  is transgression-of-law (abstract and in general. The assertion amounts to the identification of the terms, and the  ἐστίν amounts to “is equivalent to.” If either of the words were anarthrous, it would become predicative of quality, “is of the nature of” as in θεὸς ἦν ὁ λόγος :  both having the article, both are  distributed logically, and the one is asserted to be co-extensive and convertible with the other. And from the nature of the foregoing clause, which was to declare the ἀνομία of sin, it would appear here also that we must take ἡ ἁμαρτία as the subject and ἡ ἀνομία as the predicate, not the converse.
	This being so,  what is it exactly that our verse asserts respecting these two things, sin, and transgression-of-law? First and obviously, no appropriation must be made, in this verse and throughout this passage, of ἁμαρτία to  one kind of sin, whether it be mortal sin as distinguished from venial (so the R.-C. expositors, e. g. Estius, but hesitatingly, “loquitur præcipue de peccato mortali, quamquam et venalia sunt iniquitates quædam et legi divinæ alicui repugnant, et ab ingressu regni cœlestis ac similitudine Christi participanda remorantur, donec expurgata fuerint”), or notorious and unrepented sins, or sins against brotherly love (as Luther, and Aug [42] on 1Jn 3:9 ): “peccare contumaciter,” Aret.: “peccato dare operam,” Beza, Piscator: “peccare scientem et volentem,” Seb.-Schmidt, Spener. The assertions are all perfectly general, and regard, in the true root and ideal, every sin whatever. Every sin whatever then is a transgression of God’s law: as indeed its very name implies: ἁμαρτάνειν being to  miss a mark , and the mark being that will of God which is the νόμος and σκοπός to him who ποιεῖ τὸ θέλημα τοῦ θεοῦ , ch. 1 John 2:17 . Œc. gives the meaning very well, except that he understands of the law of nature only, what ought to be understood of the law of God, the revelation of His will, in whatever way made: ἰστέον δὲ ὡς ἁμαρτία μὲν ἡ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ ἀπόπτωσίς ἐστιν , ἀνομία δὲ ἡ περὶ τὸν θετὸν νόμον πλημμέλεια . καὶ ταύτην ἔχουσιν ἀρχὴν ἑκάτερον τούτων , τὸ μὲν τὴν ἀπὸ τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ ἔκπτωσιν , τὸ δέ τὴν περὶ τὸν θετὸν νόμον πλημμέλειαν . συμφέρονται δέ ταύταις καὶ κατὰ ταὐτόν . ὅ τε γὰρ ἁμαρτάνων τοῦ κατὰ τὴν φύσιν καὶ ἐν τῇ φύσει ἀπέτυχε σκοποῦ . σκοπὸς γὰρ τῇ ἀνθρωπείᾳ φύσει τὸ κατὰ τὸν λόγον ζῇν , τῆς ἀλογίας πόῤῥω ἀπῳκισμένῃ . ὡσαύτως καὶ ὁ ἄνομος πλημμελεῖ περὶ τὸν ἐν τῇ φὐσει δεδομένον νόμον , διαγινόμενος ἀκρατῶς , καλῶς οὖν ὁ μαθητὴς τοῦ κυρίου εἰς ταὐτὸν ἀμφότερα περιέστησεν ).
	 [42]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430