 5 .]  Additional argument for the incompatibility of sin with the life of God’s children; that He, Christ, in and by whom we have this adoption ( Joh 1:12 ), and by being in whose likeness alone we can be perfectly like God, was manifested to take away all sins, being Himself sinless.  And ye know (the Apostle assumes it as known by those who had an anointing from the Holy One and knew all things, ch. 1Jn 2:20 )  that He (now clearly Christ, from the context, which (see above on ἐκεῖνος , 1Jn 3:3 ) can alone decide the reference in each case)  was manifested (viz. by His appearing in the flesh, and all that He openly and visibly did and taught in it, or may be known, by the Spirit, to have done and taught)  in order that He may (might)  take away (aor. “take away by one act and entirely”. The meaning, “  take away ,” and not “  bear ,” is necessitated here by the context. Sin is altogether alien from Christ. He became incarnate that He might blot it out: He has no stain of it on Himself. If we render ἄρῃ “  bear ,” this coherence is lost. Of course this fact is in the background, that He took them away by bearing them Himself: but it is not brought out, only the antagonism between Him and sin. See, on the word, the note on ref. John)  sins (  τὰς ἁμαρτ .,  all sins, not merely certain sins. The object of his manifestation is stated not only categorically, but definitively. Compare the striking parallel Hebrews 9:26 , εἰς ἀθέτησιν ἁμαρτίας διὰ τῆς θυσίας αὐτοῦ πεφανέρωται );  and in Him sin is not (as His work, in being manifested, was, altogether to take away sin, so likewise is He himself free from all spot of sin. The  καί serves to co-ordinate the last clause with the first, not to subordinate it, as many Commentators have supposed, and even Aug [43] : “In quo non est peccatum, ipse venit auferre peccatum: nam si esset et in illo peccatum, auferendum esset illi, non ipse auferret:” and Œc., τὸ  καὶ ἀντὶ τοῦ διότι : and afterwards, ἵνα ὡς μὴ ἁμαρτίαν ποιὴσας τὰς ἁμαρτίας ἡμῶν ἄρῃ : so also Corn.-a-lap., Lorinus, Baumg.-Crus., Sander, Neander. This interpretation is confuted by the  ἐστιν , which should have been ἦν : and by the following context, in which this fact of the sinlessness of Christ serves as the foundation for what is said, 1 John 3:6 . The most palpable violations of the construction and sense are made by the rationalists, of whom Grotius may serve as an example: “præsens pro præterito: peccatum in eo non erat, nempe cum vitam mortalem viveret.” Socinus, feeling that this could not be, tries to explain away  peccatum , as meaning “non vitium aliquid in moribus,” but the consequences of sin, “omnia mala, omnesque perpessiones, una cum ipsa morte,” from which Christ is now (hodie) for ever free, “utpote beatissimus, et impatibilis atque immortalis.” And strange to say, Calvin so far misunderstands what is here said as to write “non de Christi persona hic agit, sed de toto corpora. Quocunque vim suam diffundit Christus, negat amplius locum esse peccato.” This would deprive ἐν αὐτῷ μένων , 1 John 3:6 , of all its meaning as referring back to the ἐν αὐτῷ here, and make it merely tautological. It is only by holding fast here the personal reference to Christ in himself, that we keep the logical coherence between that verse and this: the reasoning from that which He is not, and cannot be, to that which they that abide in Him are not and cannot be).
	 [43]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430