 12 .]  Not as Cain was of the wicked one and slew his brother (the construction is elliptic, or rather brachylogic, for nothing is to be supplied, as ἐσμέν (Sander), or ὦμεν ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ , as Grot., Lücke, or  diligamus , as Corn.-a-lap.; or a relative ὅς before ἐκ τ . πον . ἦν , as Beza and Socinus. The construction is just as in John 6:58 , and in the passage of Demosth. p. 415 A, which Winer adduces, οὐ γὰρ ἐκ πολιτικῆς αἰτίας , οὐδ ʼ ὥσπερ Ἀριστοφῶν … ἔλυσε τὴν προβολήν . It would be simpler, οὐ καθὼς Κάϊν ἔσφαξε τὸν ἀδ . αὐτοῦ , ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ὤν . The word  σφάζω properly means to kill by cutting the throat. It is said to occur in LXX and N. T. in the general sense of killing (so Düsterd.); but I cannot find any instances which will not bear the precise meaning as well as a more general one. It is remarkable however, that St. John only of N. T. writers uses the verb, and that in every place there is nothing  requiring the proper sense: so that any inference from its occurrence here as to the manner of Cain’s murder of Abel would be unsafe. In  ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ἦν we have a resumption of ἐκ τοῦ διαβόλου ἐστίν from above, 1 John 3:8 ; the word  πονηροῦ being used probably on account of τὰ ἔργα αὐτοῦ πονηρὰ ἦν following. Observe, the ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ἦν is the inference from that great proof which he gave of it by killing his brother: as is also the reason given in what follows: see below. So that here the assertion of his being of the wicked one is, as above, strictly ethical, and in no way physical or dualistic: “Cain erat filius non Dei sed diaboli, non generatione, sed imitatione et suggestione,” Corn.-a-lap.).  And for what reason (reff.)  slew he him? because his (own) works were wicked, and those of his brother righteous (it has caused some difficulty, that no mention of this ethical difference is made in the narrative in Genesis. It has been supposed, e. g. by Socinus, that the Apostle gathers it from God’s differing acceptance of the offerings of the two: others, as Lyra, have called the ethical characters of the two the “occasio prævia,” whereas the immediately exciting cause was the “occasio propinqua,” of the murder. But properly considered, the Apostle’s assertion here is only a “deductio ex concesso.” Cain murdered his brother: therefore he hated him: and hate belongs to the children of the evil one, classes him at once among those whose works are evil, and who hate those who, like Abel, are testified to ( Heb 11:4 ) that they are of the children of God who work righteousness. Whatever might be the exciting occasion of the murder, this lay at the root the hatred which the children of the devil ever bear to the children of God. The various legends, about Cain being the child of the serpent by Eve, and the characters of Cain and Abel, see in Lücke, edn. 3, pp. 317, 318, notes; and the former in Huther, p. 148).