 16 .]  Example of true love in Christ, and enforcement of it on us .  In this (on  ἐν τούτῳ , see above, 1 John 3:10 , and note, ch. 1Jn 2:3 )  we have the knowledge of (  ἐγνώκαμεν , “we have arrived at and possess the apprehension of:” γινώσκειν implying knowledge as an act of the understanding proceeding on intellectual grounds. Here however it is used entirely within the sphere of the Christian life of union with Christ. None can understand true love as shewn in this its highest example, but he who is one with Christ, and has felt and does feel that love of His in its power on himself. See note on ch. 1Jn 2:3 )  love (i. e. what love is: the nature of love true and genuine: “amoris naturam,” Bengel; “veram indolem amoris,” Rosenmüller. And Aug [62] , “perfectionem dilectionis dicit, perfectionem illam quam commendavimus.” And so most of the Commentators. Some have held to the insertion of τοῦ θεοῦ after ἀγάπην , which has hardly any authority (only one cursive (“52”) vulg. arm-usc). So Beza, Socinus, Whitby, Grot., Seb.-Schmidt, Calov. And others, as Spener, Carpzov., Episcopius, though they do not read θεοῦ , yet would supply it, or χριστοῦ , in the sense of Romans 5:8 , John 3:16 . But there can be but little doubt that the other is the right view. The love of God to us is not that which would,  as such , be adduced as a pattern to us of brotherly love; it is true that in the depth of the matter, all true love is love after that pattern: but in a passage so logically bound together it is much more probable that the term common to the two, Christ and ourselves, would be, not divine love, which as such is peculiar to Him, but love itself simply, that of which He has given the great example which we are to follow),  that He (Christ, as the words beyond question shew)  laid down His life for us ( ψυχὴν τιθέναι , as “vitam ponere” in Latin, to lay aside life, to die: not as Grot., who in all the places where it occurs maintains that it is only “vitam objicere periculis,” which would entirely enervate the Apostle’s saying here.  ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν carries in it and behind it all that we know of the nature of the death which is spoken of: but the vicariousness and atoning power of Christ’s death are not here in consideration: it is looked on here as the greatest possible proof of love, as in John 15:13 . It is the very perversity of unsound reasoning to maintain, as Paulas (in Düsterd.), that because our imitation of Christ’s example, insisted on below, cannot have the virtue commonly ascribed to his death, therefore his death had in reality no such virtue):  and we (  ἡμεῖς , emphatic: we on our part, as followers of Christ)  ought on behalf of the brethren to lay down our lives (on  ψυχάς , Socinus says well: “Non dicit nos debere  animam ponere, quasi ut unus pro multis morti sit obstrictus, sed  animas , quia singuli pro singulis mori debemus.” The Apostle states the duty generally: and thus stated it is clear enough. As Christ did in pursuance of His love, so ought we to do in pursuance of ours, bound as we are to Him not by the mere force of an outward example, but by the power of an inward life. But naturally and necessarily the precept finds its application only in those cases where our Heavenly Father’s will sets the offering of such a sacrifice in the course and pursuance of our brotherly love, which He has ordained. Of such an occasion the aor. θεῖναι gives perhaps a hint: not τιθέναι , as a habit of mind ever ready: but θεῖναι , once for all, on occasion given. It is not the place here to enter on, or even to enumerate, the various cases of conscience which casuists have raised as to the question,  when a Christian ought to lay down his life for a brother. The subject will be found discussed in such commentaries as those of Corn.-a-lap., Justiniani, Estius, Episcopius; and a summary is given by Düsterdieck h. l.).
	 [62]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430