 8 .]  Contrast to 1 John 3:7 ; cf.  ὁ ποιῶν  …   ὁ ποιῶν : but here by the necessity of the case, when a  positive assertion comes to be made respecting the sinner, the new element ἐκ τ . διαβ . ἐστίν is introduced: see below.  He that doeth sin is of the devil (notice first  ὁ ποιῶν τὴν ἁμαρτίαν , as indicative not so much of individual acts as of a state, corresponding to ὁ ποιῶν τὴν δικαιοσύνην . And then  ἐκ τοῦ διαβόλου ἐστίν must not be rationalized away, as is done by those who deny the personal existence of the devil. It is the distinct opposite correlative of ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ ἐστιν ( 1Jn 3:10 al. freq.), and implies a personal root and agency just as much as that other does. But again, it does not imply any physical dualism on the part of the Apostle. “Neminem fecit diabolus,” says Aug [45] h. l. Tract. iv. 10, 11, vol. iii. p. 2011, “neminem genuit, neminem creavit; sed quicunque fuerit imitatus diabolum, quasi de illo natus, fit filius diaboli, imitando, non proprie nascendo.… Omnes peccatores ex diabolo nati sunt, in quantum peccatores. Adam a Deo factus est; sed quando consensit diabolo, ex diabolo natus est, et tales omnes genuit qualis erat.…” And below, § 11, “Ergo duas nativitates attendite, Adam et Christi. Duo sunt homines, sed unus ipsorum homo homo, alter ipsorum homo Deus. Per hominem hominem peccatores sumus, per hominem Deum justificamur. Nativitas illa dejecit ad mortem, ista nativitas erexit ad vitam: nativitas illa trahit secum peccatum, nativitas ista liberat a peccato: ideo enim venit Christus homo, ut solveret peccata hominum.” Origen (in Joan. tom. xx. 13, vol. iv. p. 325 D) remarks that ἐστίν is said ἐπὶ τοῦ ἐκ τοῦ διαβόλου , not ἐπὶ τῶν ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , and on the other hand γεγεννημένος is said ἐπὶ τῶν ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , not ἐπὶ τῶν ἐκ τοῦ διαβόλου . This must not be urged too far, seeing that St. John does speak of εἶναι ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , e. g. ch. 1 John 5:19 , and places over against one another the τέκνα τοῦ θεοῦ and the τέκνα τοῦ διαβόλου 1 John 3:10 ; besides which, the devil is said to be ὁ πατήρ of the unbelieving ( Joh 8:44 ). All that we can say is, that the two are not strictly correspondent: that Origen’s latter assertion is true we have no γεγεννῆσθαι ἐκ τοῦ διαβόλου . In the case of the children of God, there is a definite time, known to Him, when they passed from death unto life (ch. 1 John 2:29 , 1Jn 3:14 , 1 John 5:11 ; John 1:12 ; John 3:3 ff; John 5:24 , &c.): from which their new life unto God dates: but there is no such point in the life of those who are the children of the devil: no regeneration from beneath corresponding to that from above: the natural life of men is not changed by seed of the devil as it is by seed of God. Rather may we say, that in those who are of the devil this latter change has never taken place. Since sin has come to reign in the world by man’s sin, our natural birth, which is properly and essentially a birth from God, a creation by the eternal Word, has become a birth from the devil: so that it is, as Bengel expresses it, “corruptio, non generatio,” and there is no trace of a physical dualism in St. John’s doctrine: nay, the idea is at once precluded by the fact that according to the Apostle ( Joh 1:12 ) those who are children of God have become so from having been children of the devil. See this expounded, as usual, in Düsterd.’s note, from which much of the above is gathered):  because the devil sinneth from the beginning (= ‘sinned in the beginning, and has never ceased to sin since:’ as Bed [46] : “cum præmitteret ‘ab initio,’ subjunxit verbum præsentis temporis ‘peccat:’ quia ex quo ab initio cœpit diabolus peccare, nunquam desiit.” But the question meets us, what is  ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς ? Bed [47] , al., understand it of the beginning of all creation: “neque enim dubitandum est inter primas creaturas angelos esse conditos; sed cæteris ad laudem Creatoris gloriam suæ conditionis referentibus, ille qui primus est conditus, mox ut altitudinem suæ claritatis aspexit, contra conditorem cum suis sequacibus superbus intumuit, perque eandem superbiam ex initio peccans, de archangelo in diabolum est versus.” Many Commentators, to avoid all chance of dualism, make it mean not from the time of his creation, but from that of his fall: so Estius, understanding the ἀρχή of the beginning of  our world : “statim a mundi creatione diabolum peccasse, cum prius nullum esset in mundo peccatum:” Calvin, “nihil aliud vult Johannes, quam diabolum statim a creatione mundi fuisse apostatam.” But again, others suppose the term to mark the beginning of the devil’s own apostasy: so Bengel, “ex quo diabolus est diabolus,” Sander, al. And lastly, Lücke, De Wette, Brückner, Düsterd., Neander, take it with Seb.-Schmidt, “ab initio τοῦ peccare,” from the time when any began to sin. And this seems, when we compare John 8:44 , to be the true interpretation. He has ever been the depositary, as it were, of the thought and the life of sin: the tempter to sin: the fountain out of which sin has come, as God is the fountain out of which has come righteousness. See on this subject, my Sermons on Divine Love, Serm. v. pp. 68 ff., “the First Sinner;” and Sartorius, “Lehre von der heiligen Liebe,” i. pp. 115 ff.).  To this end was the Son of God manifested (viz. in His incarnation, pregnant with all its consequences),  that He might destroy (do away, break up, pull down: see reff.: of a building, or a law, or an organized whole)  the works of the devil (what are these? Clearly, in the first place, works whereof the devil is the  author : not as Baumg.-Crus., merely  devilish works . And then, are we to include in the list not only sins, which manifestly belong to it, but also the consequences of sin, pain, sorrow, death? The  fact would be true if we did: for Christ hath abolished death ( 2Ti 1:10 ): and Estius’s objection need not have any weight with us, “mors peccatum non est, sed pœna peccati, Deum habens auctorem.… Destruitur mors per Christum, non quod ipsa sit opus diaboli sed quod ex opere diaboli justo Dei judicio subsecuta:” for even thus considered, it would be implicitly one of those works. But the context seems to require that we should at all events keep death and the results of sin in the background, as no mention is made of them here, and sinful works are clearly in the Apostle’s mind. These works the whole φανέρωσις of Christ went directly to nullify: more especially His Death, in which His power over Satan reached its highest point, the bruising of His heel, in which He bruised the Enemy’s head: for it was in that, that He won for us that acceptance which is sealed by His glorification, and in virtue of which the Holy Spirit is given us, of whose work in us it is said that we πνεύματι τὰς πράξεις τοῦ σώματος θανατοῦμεν , Rom 8:13 ).
	 [45]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [46] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [47] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.