 19, 20 .] [  And ]  in this (on ἐν τούτῳ , see above, 1 John 3:10 ; 1 John 3:16 . It here refers to what had gone before: viz. to the fulfilment of the exhortation in 1 John 3:18 , as the future shews: q. d., which thing if we do, … This has been very generally acknowledged: some Commentators mentioning, but only to repudiate, the connexion with what follows, ὅτι ἐὰν κ . τ . λ . Some, as De W., refer ἐν τούτῳ back to 1 John 3:10 ; 1 John 3:16 ; others, as Lücke, to 1 John 3:14 . But to whichever of these it is referred, the sense is much the same. The context which follows is best satisfied by taking it as above: see on ἐξ ἀληθείας ἐσμέν below)  we shall know (on the  future , see above. It is the result consequent on the fulfilment of the condition implied in ἐν τούτῳ . De Wette’s idea, after Bengel, that the rec. γινώσκομεν has been altered to the future to suit the following future πείσομεν , is not to be thought of, in the presence of the common formula ἐν τούτῳ γινώσκομεν , ch. 1 John 2:3 , 1 John 3:24 ; 1 John 3:4 (2, 6,) 13, 1 John 5:2 . The prevalent form was adopted by the transcribers,  regardless of the future following)  that we are of the truth ( ἐν τίνι ; ἐν τῷ μὴ λόγῳ ἀγαπᾷν , ἀλλὰ ἔργῳ καὶ ἀληθείᾳ … καὶ πῶς ; ὁ γὰρ ἄλλο μὲν λέγων , ἄλλο δὲ ποιῶν , μὴ σύμφωνον ἔχων τῷ λόγῳ τὴν πρᾶξιν , ψεύστης ἐστὶ καὶ οὐκ ἀληθής . Œc. But, true as this is, and self-evident, it does not reach the depth of the meaning: as of course do not the many rationalistic paraphrases which have been given: “congruere evangelio,” Grot., Whitby, &c. To be  ἐκ τῆς ἀληθείας , is a different matter from to be truthful or true men. Estius  approaches the meaning, understanding ἀλήθεια to be the truth of God in His promises, and so ἐκ τῆς ἀλ . ἐσμέν to mean “are of the number of the elect.” Bede’ [63] interpretation, “ex veritate quæ Deus est,” in which Lyra, Tirinus, Calvin agree, is nearer still: but had the Aposlte intended this, he surely would have written ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ . The Lutheran Commentators have come nearer still, making ἡ ἀλήθεια to be “verbum veritatis” by which we are begotten anew unto God: so Luther, Seb.-Schmidt, Calov., Spener, Bengel, Lücke, De Wette. But why stop at that which after all is itself ἐκ τῆς ἀληθείας ? Why not mount up to the ἀλήθεια itself, that pure and objective Truth which is the common substratum and essential quality of the Spirit Himself, of the Word, of those who are born of the Word by the Spirit? and thus Düsterd., Huther, al.),  and shall persuade our hearts before him (i. e. and in and by this same sign, shall still the questionings of our hearts before God, by the assurance that we are His true children. This meaning has been acquiesced in by almost all Commentators both ancient and modern. Fritzsche alone maintains a different one: “Et coram Deo, i. e. Deum intuiti et reveriti, animos nostros flectemus (viz. ad amorem vita factisque ostendendum), quia, si animus nos hujus officii prætermissi condemnet, quia major est, inquam, Deus animo nostro et omnia scit.” He denies that πείσομεν is to be referred to ἐν τούτῳ , and, as above, interprets that by the consideration of God’s greatness and omniscience we are to persuade our hearts to love in truth. This view is impugned and satisfactorily confuted by Lücke, on the following grounds: 1. that after so solemn an exhortation to brotherly love on the deepest grounds, it is not likely that the Apostle would subjoin another, grounded on less deep and more general motives: 2. that every thing said by way of a motive in ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ has been included in what has been said before: 3. (And this is the weightiest objection of all, enlarged on and pressed further by Düsterdieck) in this case τὰς καρδίας here must denote the heart as the seat of the affections, whereas in 1Jn 3:20 ἡ καρδία must denote the heart as the seat of the conscience. Whereas on the common view, καρδία is, throughout, the heart as the seat of the conscience, giving rise there to peace or to terror, according as it is at rest or in disquietude: nearly as Thl., πείσομεν τὴν συνείδησιν ἡμῶν , τοῦτο γὰρ βούλεται σημαίνειν διὰ τὰς καρδίας : only that this view of the  identity of the conscience with the καρδία is not correct. St. John uses  καρδία for the innermost seat of our feelings and passions: of alarm (John 14:1 ; Joh 14:27 ), of mourning ( Joh 16:6 ), of joy ( Joh 16:22 ); it was into the καρδία of Judas that the devil put the intent of betraying the Lord ( Joh 13:2 ): and the καρδία here is the inward judge of the man, whose office is, so to say, promoted by the conscience, accusing or else excusing ( Rom 2:15 ). Then, as to  πείσομεν , there is no need to give to the verb any unusual meaning. It does not mean “quiet” or “assure,” except in so far as its ordinary import, “persuade,” takes this tinge from the context. And so it is, in every instance cited by the Commentators for this unusual meaning: e. g. in Matthew 28:14 , Acts 12:20 , and reff.: in Jos. Antt. vi. 5. 6, where Samuel ὑπισχνεῖται καὶ παρακαλέσειν τὸν θεὸν συγγνῶναι περὶ τούτων αὐτοῖς καὶ πείσειν : in the passage in Plutarch, where one says ἀπολοίμην εἰ μή σε τιμωρησαίμην , and the other answers, ἀπολοίμην εἰ μή σε πείσαιμι .
	 [63] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	It must be plain from what has been said, that the future πείσομεν is not, on account of ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ , to be taken as referring to the future day of judgment, as some (e. g. Benson, Lücke, De Wette) have done. In ch. 1 John 4:17 , which is in some respects parallel with this, that day is expressly named: whereas in our passage, an equally clear indication is given, by the parallelism of γνωσόμεθα and πείσομεν , that no such reference is intended.  ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ is not, at His appearing, but,  in His sight , as placed before His all-seeing eye: ὡς ὑπὸ θεῷ μάρτυρι , as Œc., though misunderstanding the whole: see above: so Aug [64] (“ante Deum es: interroga cor tuum … si persuademus cordi nostro, coram ipso persuademus”), Bed [65] , Corn.-a-lap., Luther, Calov., Bengel, Neander, Huther, Sander, Erdmann, Düsterd. It may be remarked finally, that by ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ being thus put first, it has evidently the emphasis: and this is important for that which follows.
	 [64]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [65] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.