 20 .]  takes up this matter of the persuading our hearts before God , and  shews its true importance and rationale. This is carried on in the following verses, but is here and in 1Jn 3:21 placed as its ground. If our heart, ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ , judges us unfavourably we may be quite sure that He knowing more than our heart does, judges us more unfavourably still: if our heart condemn us not, again ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ , judging and seeing in the light of His countenance, then we know that we are at one with Him, and those consequences follow, which are set forth in 1 John 3:22 .
	But before arriving at this sense, there are several difficulties of no slight weight to be overcome. With these it will be best to deal, before translating the verse. Three principal questions must be answered: 1. What is the first  ὅτι ? 2. What is the second  ὅτι ? 3. What is the meaning of  μείζων ? 1, 2. Some monstra of exegesis must first be eliminated. It has been tried to make ὅτι ἐάν = ὅταν , “whensoever:” For this is quoted  Sam. Andreä , of whom I can discover nothing. This of course is impossible. Equally impracticable are the endeavours to alter the text; by striking out the 2nd  ὅτι as Grot., or making this one into ἔτι (H. Stephanus, Pricæus, Piscator). Again it is quite out of the question to supply before the second ὅτι , “eheu nobis,” as Episcopius, “scimus, aut scire debemus,” as Calov., al. Of other interpretations, the first requiring notice is that upheld by De Wette, and pronounced the only tenable one by Brückner, which would make the second ὅτι independent of the first, and regard it as containing the reason of the final clause, καὶ γινώσκει πάντα . The objection to this is, not the  καί before γινώσκει , which would be natural enough, “because God is greater than our heart, it follows that …;” such an apodosis being very commonly introduced by καί , but 1) the sense thus obtained, which would be illogical, as it would not follow,  because God is greater than our heart, that He knows all things: and 2) that brought by Düsterd., the exceeding harshness and clumsiness thus introduced into the style, whereas St. John is singularly lucid, and has but very few inversions, none indeed at all approaching the harshness of this. Bengel, Hoogeveen, Morus, Nösselt, Baumg.-Crus., Huther, regard the first ὅτι as the pronoun relative, ὅ τι : “coram ipso secura reddemus corda nostra quocunque tandem crimine damnat nos cor,” as Hoogeveen. The objection to this is not N. T. usage, as alleged, e. g. by Düsterdieck against ὅστις ἐάν , for we read ὅστις ἐάν Galatians 5:10 , and ἥτις ἐάν Acts 3:23 ; but sense, context, and analogy. Sense, for it would surely be monstrous to make the Apostle say that if we have brotherly love, we may make ourselves easy, whatever else our consciences accuse us of: context, for in this sentence no logical reason would thus be given by the following ὅτι , which Hoog. renders  quia : analogy, as shewn in the parallelism ἐὰν καταγινώσκῃ and ἐὰν μὴ καταγινώσκῃ , which we thus altogether destroy. Another interpretation is given, and, as usual, defended with extreme fervency and bitterness against those who differ, by Sander. He would make the whole of 1Jn 3:20 depend on ἐν τούτῳ γνωσόμεθα and on πείσομεν (some others had done the same before, e. g. Meyer. See also Erdmann below); and regard it as meant in a consolatory sense: by thus loving in deed, &c., we shall know, &c., and shall persuade our hearts that if our heart condemn us, God (he is troubled with the second ὅτι , and offers to his readers the alternative of erasing it with Lachmann or reading ἔτι with Stephens) is greater than our heart and knoweth all things: i. e. knows us to be His children and better than we seem to ourselves. With this in the main Erdmann agrees: “Hoc igitur apostolus dicit: filiis Dei, si forte in peccata inciderint, et conscientiæ accusatione perterriti fuerint, quum e conscientia veræ caritatis erga Deum et fratres pro certo sciant se ex veritate esse, vitæque novitatem in Dei patris societate accepisse, persuasum fore, τὸ καταγινώσκειν , conscientiæ magnitudine et potestate gratiæ divinæ illoque Dei γινώσκειν πάντα superari.”
	But how any exegete of tact and discernment can hold this, I am at a loss to imagine. Leaving for the present the question respecting the sense of μείζων ἐστὶν κ . τ . λ ., can we conceive the Apostle to write so loosely as this “we shall persuade our hearts, that if our heart condemn us …?” For, in this case, the  καρδίας of the former clause has no connexion with the καρδία of the latter, but, as Erdmann confesses, is equivalent to ἡμᾶς αὐτούς , whereas in the latter, καρδία is the “conscientia reatus.” And besides, the πείσομεν has already had its emphatic completion in the words ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ , declaring its meaning to be absolute, and preventing its passing on to the ὅτι .
	It would seem then that the first ὅτι cannot be “that,” but must be causal. And if the first, then the second, which, as far as I know, no one has attempted to render “  that ” after rendering the other “because.” How then is the repetition to be interpreted? The first ὅτι furnishes the reason for introducing the clause: what purpose is served by the second? The old scholium says, τὸ δεύτερον  ὅτι παρέλκει . And so several of the Commentators, adducing instances of a repeated and superfluous ὅτι from Xenoph. Anab. v. 6. 19, λέγουσιν ὅτι , εἰ μὴ … ὅτι κινδυνεύσει …: and so Anab. vii. 4. 5: Eph 2:11-12 in N. T. But in all these places ὅτι is “  that ,” not “  because :” nor can an instance be produced of the repetition of a causal ὅτι . This resource thus seems taken from us. The second ὅτι must have its distinct place and meaning assigned it. And, reserving the consideration of the meaning thus obtained, till we treat of μείζων ἐστὶν κ . τ . λ ., there is one legitimate way of taking it, which does not seem to have been suggested: viz., that there is an ellipsis of the verb substantive before the 2nd ὅτι , and that the clause, thus introduced, forms the apodosis to the ἐὰν κ . τ . λ .: “because if our heart condemns us, (it is) because God, &c.” Instances of similar ellipses after εἰ or ἐάν are of course common enough: εἴ τις ἐν χριστῷ , καινὴ κτίσις , 2 Corinthians 5:17 ; εἴτε ὑπὲρ Τίτου , κοινωνὸς ἐμός κ . εἰς ὑμᾶς συνεργός · εἴτε ἀδελφοὶ ἡμῶν , ἀπόστολοι ἐκκγησιῶν , δόξα χριστοῦ , 2 Corinthians 8:23 . Nearer to the point is 2 Corinthians 1:6 , εἴτε θλιβόμεθα , ὑπὲρ τῆς ὑμῶν παρακλήσεως καὶ σωτηρίας : 1 Corinthians 14:27 , εἴτε γλώσσῃ τὶς λαλεῖ , κατὰ δύο .…
	But this brings us to consider (3) the meaning of the words  μείζων ἐστὶν ὁ θεὸς τῆς καρδίας ἡμῶν καὶ γινώσκει πάντα . Two ways of taking them have been prevalent: the ancients regarded them as intensifying the ἐὰν καταγινώσκῃ ἡμῶν ἡ καρδία : as the Schol. in Cramer’s Catena, εἰ γὰρ ἁμαρτάνοντες , τὴν καρδίαν ἑαυτῶν λαθεῖν δυνάμεθα (qu.  οὐ δυνάμ .?) ἀλλὰ νυττόμεθα ὑπὸ τοῦ συνειδότος , πόσῳ μᾶλλον τὸν θεὸν πράττοντές τι τῶν φαύλων δυνήθωμεν (  οὐ δυν .) λαθεῖν ; and so Aug [66] , &c., and of the moderns, Calvin, Beza, Socinus, Grot., Corn.-a-lap., Castalio, Estius, Calov., Semler, Lücke, Neander, al. On the other hand, Luther, Bengel, Morus, Spener, Nösselt, Rickli, Baumg.-Crus, Sander, Besser, Düsterd., Huther, Erdmann, regard them as consolatory in their tendency, and as softening our self-condemnation by the comforting thought of God’s greatness and infinite mercy. Erdmann remarks, “Respondet his sententia S. Pauli ad Rom 5:20 sq.: οὗ δὲ ἐπλεόνασεν ἡ ἁμαρτία , ὑπερπερίσσευσεν ἡ χάρις . Luther ad h. l. dicit: Das Gemiffen ift ein einziger Tropfen, ber verfdhnte Gott aber ift ein Meer voller Troftes.” He compares John 21:17 , κύριε , πάντα σὺ οἶδας , σὺ γινώσκεις ὅτι φιλῶ σε .
	 [66]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	But beautiful and true as this is, and the similar considerations which have been urged by others of the above Commentators, it is to me very doubtful whether they find any place in the context here. That context appears to stand thus. The Apostle in 1Jn 3:19 has said that by the presence of genuine love we shall know that we are of the truth, and shall persuade our hearts in God’s presence. He then proceeds to enlarge on this  persuading our hearts,  in general . If our heart condemn us, what does it import? If our heart acquit us, what? The ἐὰν καταγινώσκῃ , and the ἐὰν μὴ καταγινώσκῃ , are plainly and necessarily  opposed , both in hypothesis and in result. If the  consolatory view of 1Jn 3:20 is taken, then the general result of 1Jn 3:20-21 will be, whether our heart condemn us or not, we have comfort and assurance: and then what would be the import of πείσομεν τὰς καρδίας ἡμῶν at all? But on the other interpretation, taken with some modifications, all will be clear. I say, taken with some modifications: because the sense has been much obscured by the introduction of the particular case treated in 1Jn 3:18 into the general statements of 1 John 3:20-21 . It is not, If our heart condemn us  for want of brotherly love , as Lücke for instance, calling it a statement ‘e contrario’ to 1 John 3:19 ; but this test is dropped, and the general subject of the testimony of our hearts is entered upon. Thus we get the context and rendering, as follows):  because (q. d., and this ἔμπροσθεν αὐτοῦ πεῖσαι τὰς καρδίας ἡμῶν is for us a vital matter, seeing that condemnation and acquittal by our own hearts bring each such a weighty conclusion with it)  if our heart condemn (notice the words γνωσόμεθα .… καταγινώσκῃ .… γινώσκει : for the meaning, see reff. It is a word especially appropriate to self-consciousness: “know (aught) against us”)  us, it is because (our self-condemnation is founded on the fact, that)  God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things (i. e. the condemning testimony of our conscience is not alone, but is a token of One sitting above our conscience and greater than our conscience: because our conscience is but the faint echo of His voice who knoweth all things: if it condemn us, how much more He? and therefore this πεῖσαι , for which this verse renders a reason, becomes a thing of inestimable import, and one which we cannot neglect, seeing that the absence of it is an index to our standing condemned of God. And then, having given the reason why the καταγινώσκειν should be set at rest by the πεῖσαι , he goes on to give the blessed results of the πεῖσαι itself in 1Jn 3:21-22 ).  Beloved (there is no adversative particle, because ἀγαπητοί throws up the contrast quite strongly enough, as introducing the very matter on which the context lays the emphasis, viz., the πεῖσαι τὰς κ . ἡμῶν ),  if our heart (so it will stand, whether ἡμῶν be read or not)  condemn us not, we have confidence towards God (reff.: said generally: not with direct reference to that which follows, 1 John 3:22 , which indeed is one form of this confidence: see ch. 1 John 5:14 , where the connexion is similar. The confidence here spoken of is of course present, not future in the day of judgment, as Estius.  πρὸς τὸν θεόν , with reference to God: but more than that: to God-ward, in our aspect as turned towards and looking to God.
	It must be remembered that the words are said in the full light of the reality of the Christian state, where the heart is awakened and enlightened, and the testimony of the Spirit is active; where the heart’s own deceit does not come into consideration as a disturbing element),  and (such another καί as that in 1Jn 3:10 above, where, after πᾶς ὁ μὴ ποιῶν δικαιοσύνην οὐκ ἔστιν ἐκ τοῦ θεοῦ , we have  καὶ ὁ μὴ ἀγαπῶν τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ , i. e. after the general statement, καί introduced the particular instance in which the general truth was carried forward. So here: By dwelling and walking in love, we can alone gain that approval of our conscience as God’s children, which brings real confidence in Him and real intercommunion in prayer, which is a result and proof of that confidence)  whatsoever we ask, we receive (pres.: not for future, as Grot. The Apostle is setting forth actual matter of fact)  from Him (these words must be taken in all their simplicity, without capricious and arbitrary limitations. Like all the sayings of St. John, they proceed on the ideal truth of the Christian state. “The child of God,” as Huther says, “asks for nothing, which is against the will of its Father”),  because (ground of the above λαμβάνομεν )  we keep His commandments, and do the things which are pleasing in His sight (on the last expression (and parallelism) see Exodus 15:26 ; also Deuteronomy 6:18 ; Deuteronomy 12:25 , Ezra 10:11 , Isaiah 38:3 . It is added, not as epexegetical of τὰς ἐντολὰς αὐτοῦ τηροῦμεν , as Sander, but as Düsterd., to connect with His granting our prayers, since our lives are in accord with His good pleasure. This however brings us to the theological difficulty of our verse, wherein it would seem at first sight as if the granting of our prayers by God depended, as its meritorious efficient, on our keeping of His commandments and doing that which pleases Him. And so some of the R.-Catholic expositors here: Corn.-a-lap., with the curious peculiarity of distinguishing τὰς ἐντολὰς αὐτοῦ τηρεῖν , the keeping of the moral law of the decalogue, from τὰ ἀρεστὰ ἐνώπ . αὐτοῦ ποιεῖν , the doing of “consilia evangelica, viz. continentia, obedientia et paupertas,” the observance of which goes “augere gratiam Dei et merita.” This is refuted by the parallelism, in which (see above) the second clause takes up the first and applies it to the matter in hand. And it is further refuted by the usage of the expression τὰ ἀρεστά , by which never “consilia evangelica,” but always things ethically pleasing to God, as commanded by Him, are denoted: cf. ref. John, Romans 12:1 ; Rom 14:18 , 2 Corinthians 5:9 , Ephesians 5:10 , Philippians 4:18 , Colossians 3:20 . Estius again has pressed the words as against the heretics, who say “omnia justorum opera esse peccata;” “nisi,” he adds, “dicant, quod absque blasphemia dici non potest, peccata esse Deo placita.” But both here and elsewhere the solution of the difficulty is very easy, if separated from the party words of theology, and viewed in the light of Scripture itself. Out of Christ, there are no good works at all; entrance into Christ is not won nor merited by them. In Christ, every work done of faith is good and is pleasing to God. The doing of such works is the working of the life of Christ in us: they are its sign, they its fruits: they are not of us, but of it and of Him. They are the measure of our Christian life: according to their abundance, so is our access to God, so is our reward from God: for they are the steps of our likeness to God. Whatever is attributed to them as an efficient cause, is attributed not to us, but to Him whose fruits they are.  Because Christ is thus manifested in us, God hears our prayers, which He only hears for Christ’s sake:  because His Spirit works thus abundantly in us, He listens to our prayer, which in that measure has become the voice of His Spirit. So that no degree of efficacy attributed to the good works of the child of God need surprise us: it is God recognizing, God vindicating, God multiplying, God glorifying, His own work in us. So that when, e. g., Corn.-a-lap. says, “congruum est et congrua merces obedientiæ et amicitiæ, ut si homo faciat voluntatem Dei, Deus vicissim faciat voluntatem hominis,” all we can reply is that such a duality, such a reciprocity, does not exist for Christians: we are  in God , He in us: and this St. John continually insists on. We have no claim ab extra: He works in us to do of His good pleasure: and the works which He works, which we work, manifest before Him, and before all, that we are His children. The  ὃ ἐὰν αἰτῶμεν  ,   λαμβάνομεν , I reserve to be treated of on ch. 1 John 5:14-15 , where it is set forth more in detail).