 11 24 .] Of  brotherly love , as the sum and essence of δικαιοσύνη : as Christ’s command ( 1Jn 3:11 ): whereas in the world there is hate (12, 13): bound up with life, as hate with death (14, 15): finding its great pattern in Christ (16); to be testified not in word only but in deed (17, 18); as the ground of confidence toward God and the granting of our prayers to Him, being obedience to His will (19 22); which obedience consists in faith and love (23), and is testified to by the witness of His Spirit (24).
	Before entering on 1 John 3:11 , the latter half of 1Jn 3:10 must be considered, as belonging properly, in its sense, to this section, though in arrangement inseparable from the last. The  καί , which binds on the additional particular in the last clause, serves, as in 1 John 3:5 , to co-ordinate that clause with the foregoing: not in this case as excluded from the forementioned category, but as one particular, taken out from among the general category, and put into a co-ordinate position with it. And it is thus put, as being the most eminent, and most of the nature of a summary, and criterion, of the rest, of any of those graces which are necessarily involved in δικαιοσύνη . Aug [55] beautifully says, “Dilectio sola discernit inter filios Dei et filios diaboli. Signent se omnes signo crucis Christi: respondeant omnes Amen: cantent omnes Halleluia: baptizentur omnes, intrent ecclesias, faciant parietes basilicarum: non discernuntur filii Dei a filiis diaboli nisi caritate.” And this love, thus constituted into “magnum indicium, magna discretio” (Aug [56] ), is necessarily the family love of brother for brother within the limits of those who are begotten of God. Universal love to man is a Christian grace but it is not that here spoken of: it neither answers the description of the ἀγγελία given in 1 John 3:11 , nor corresponds to the context here in general, the drift of which is that a test of our belonging to God’s family is our love towards His children who are our brethren in that family: cf. ch. 1 John 5:1 ff. But, while there can be no doubt that this is the right understanding of the brotherly love here insisted on, we incur at once a formal difficulty in applying this meaning to the negative or exclusive side of the test. He who does not love his brother, has in strict fact  no brother to love , for he is not a child of God at all. Hence we must understand, strictly speaking, τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ in this case as importing his hypothetical brother: him, who would be, were he himself a true child of God, a brother, and if so, necessarily beloved. That this love does not exist in him, demonstrates him not to be of God’s family.
	 [55]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [56]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430