 17 .]  But (“by the adversative connexion of 1Jn 3:17 with 1Jn 3:16 the Apostle marks the passage from the greater, which is justly demanded of us, to the lesser, the violation of which is all the more a transgression of the law just prescribed.” Düsterd.)  whosoever hath the world’s sustenance (  βίος , as in ch. 1 John 2:16 , and in reff., for that whereon life is sustained. Grotius quotes the classical proverb, βίος βίου δεόμενος οὐκ ἔστι βίος . Œc. and some others have misunderstood τὸν βίον τοῦ κόσμου as if it meant excessive wealth: Œc. even making τοῦ κόσμου a gen. of apposition: οὐ τοὺς βίου σπανίζοντας λέγω , ἀλλὰ καὶ τοὺς ὅλον τὸν κόσμον σχεδὸν ὕπαρξιν ἔχοντας πλούτου . And Piscator makes it mean “victus, cui acquirendo mundus est deditus.” But there can be little doubt that most Commentators are right in explaining the expression to mean, with Beza, “mundanæ facultates,” “les biens de ce monde;” as E. V., “this world’s good”),  and beholdeth (  θεωρῇ gives more than the casual sight: it is the standing and looking on as a spectator: so that it ever involves not the eye only, but the mind also, in the sight: it is  contemplari , not simply  videre . So Chrys. in Joh. Hom. lxxv. 1, vol. viii. p. 405, οἶδεν ἡ γραφὴ ἐπὶ ἀκριβοῦς γνώσεως θεωρίαν λέγειν · ἐπειδὰν γὰρ τῶν αἰσθήσεων τρανοτέρα ἡ ὄψις , διὰ ταύτης ἀεὶ τὸν ἀκριβῆ παρίστησι γνῶσιν . St. John is very fond of the word (reff.), and wherever it occurs, this its meaning may be more or less traced. There is then in this unmerciful man not merely the being aware of, but the deliberate contemplation of the distress of his brother)  his brother having need, and shutteth up (by the slight addition of “  up ,” we faintly represent the force of the Greek aor.  κλείσῃ , as implying that the shutting is then and there done, as the result of the contemplation: not a mere constitutional hardness of heart, but an act of exclusion from sympathy following deliberately on the beholding of his brother’s distress)  his bowels (= his heart, the seat of compassion: as so often in the N. T. See reff., and Luke 1:78 , 2 Corinthians 7:15 , Philippians 1:8 ; Philippians 2:1 , Philemon 1:7 ; Phm 1:12 )  from him (  ἀπ  ʼ αὐτοῦ is pregnant, as in ch. 1 John 2:28 , “aversandi notionem habens.” There is no Hebraism: nor is any supply such as ἀποστρεφόμενος wanted. κλείειν ἀπό is just as good Greek as κρύπτειν ἀπό , Joh 12:36 al. As Düsterd. remarks, the fact that a man shuts up his heart against his brother, includes in it the fact that that brother is excluded  from the heart thus shut up),  how (can it be that; as in ch. 1 John 4:20 , πῶς δύναται ἀγαπᾷν ;)  doth the love of God (i. e. from the very express filling out of the thought in ch. 1 John 4:20 , “  love to God ;” not God’s love to us. See also ch. 1 John 2:5 , where we have the same expression and reference to the love of God being in a man. The context indeed here might seem, as the mention of Christ’s love to us has so immediately preceded, to require the other meaning; or at least, that of “the love whereof God hath set us a pattern:” and accordingly both these have been held: the former by Luther, in his second exposition, and Calov., the latter by Socinus and Grotius. But I see not how we can escape the force of the passages above cited)  abide in him (Lücke and Düsterd. are disposed to lay a stress on the  μένει here, thereby opening a door for the view that the love of God may indeed be in him in some sense, but not as a firm abiding principle; that at all events at the moment when he thus shuts up his bowels of compassion, it is not  abiding in him. But this would seem to violate the ideal strictness of the Apostle’s teaching, and the true sense rather to be, “How can we think of such an one as at all possessing the love of God in any proper sense?” giving thus much emphasis to μένει , but not putting it in opposition to ἐστίν , as Lücke does; for it is, in the root, equivalent to it.
	Here again, many questions of casuistry have been raised as to the nature and extent of the duty of almsgiving, on which it is impossible to enter here, and for which I must refer my readers as before. The safest answers to them all will be found in the Christian conscience enlightened by the Holy Spirit, guiding the Christian heart warmed by the living presence of Christ)?