 1 .]  Behold (as in John 1:29 ; John 19:5 , does not express the Writer’s own astonishment, but directs the attention of those who are addressed: “commendat Apostolus his verbis magnum Dei beneficium,” Estius. But there immediately follows  ἡμῖν , the communicative address, so that in fact the Apostle does in a manner include himself among those addressed in ἴδετε ),  what manner of (thus the E. V., literally and rightly.  ποταπός , properly ποδαπός , originally meant, “  of what country ;” and occurs in this sense continually in the classics: e. g. Herod. vii. 218, εἴρετο … ποδαπὸς (or ὁποδ -) εἴη ὁ στρατός , al. Its derivation is matter of dispute: whether from δάπος , τάπος , which forms enter into δάπεδον , ἔδαφος , τόπος ; so Valcknaer: or from ἀπό , as Buttm. Lexil. comparing ἀλλοδάπος , παντοδάπος &c., δ being inserted as in  prodire, prodesse . Then in later writers it came to signify “  of what kind ,” as e. g. in Demosth. p. 782, 8, τίς ὁ κύων καὶ ποδαπός ; οἷος μὴ δάκνειν , al. The signification  quantus seems never to have belonged properly to the word. It may of course be often included in  qualis , as it undoubtedly is here: “what manner of” including “how great,” “how free,” “how precious” in fact all the particulars which are afterwards brought out respecting this love: see 1 John 3:16 , ch. 1Jn 4:9 ; 1Jn 4:16 )  love (is  ἀγάπην here, joined as it is with the verb δέδωκεν , literally  love itself , or does it import some gift, bestowal, or fruit of love? The latter (caritatis munus) is taken by Beza: and similarly,  beneficium , or the like, by Socinus, Episcopius, Seb.-Schmidt, Grot., Est., Rosenm., Neander, al. But there seems no necessity for diverting the word from its proper meaning. As in ch. 1 John 4:9 , the proof of the love is that which is imported, not by the love itself, but by the verb joined with it; as by ἐφανερώθη there, so by δέδωκεν here. So that in fact  δέδωκεν , which has been the motive for these renderings, speaks, as Düsterd. observes, most decidedly against them. He quotes from Luther’s scholia, “Usus autem est Joannes singulari verborum pondere: non dicit dedisse nobis Deum donum aliquod, sed ipsam caritatem et fontem omnium bonorum, cor ipsum, idque non pro operibus aut studiis nostris, sed gratuito.” Cf. χἁριν διδόναι , ref. James)  the Father (  ὁ πατήρ , spoken here not, as some, of God in general, the whole three Persons in the blessed Trinity, but personally, of the Father, as distinguished from the Son, in whom we have received our adoption. Even the Socinian Schlichting has recognized this: “Nempe Pater ille Jesu Christi et consequentr omnium in Jesum Christum credentium, unus ille Deus, qui si Pater Jesu Christi non esset, nec Jesus Christus ejus Filius ille singularissimus, neque nobis tanta ejus ac vere paterna gratia unquam obtigisset”)  hath given (see above)  unto us, that (how is  ἵνα here to be taken? is it to be kept to its strong telic sense, indicating that our being called the children of God is the purpose of that gift of love just spoken of, or does it, as so often in St. John, introduce the purport of that love, stated in the form of an end to be gained by its manifestation? Lange, Lücke, De Wette, and Brückner keep the strong telic sense. “What great love,” says Lücke, “hath the Father shewn us (viz. in sending His Son, ch. 1Jn 4:10 ), in order to make us children of God!” But the objection to this is, that thus a proof of the divine Love is hinted at in our verse which is not expanded, but is left to be gathered from elsewhere: and the purpose introduced by ἵνα becomes the secondary and remote subject of the sentence, whereas, from τέκνα θεοῦ taking up the preceding γεγέννηται , and being again taken up in 1 John 3:2 , it is evidently the primary subject. The other meaning of ἵνα is taken by the ancient Greek expositors, so Œc., Thl., εἴδετε γὰρ ὅτι ἔδωκεν ἡμῖν τέκνα θεοῦ γενέσθαι τε καὶ κληθῆναι ( λογισθῆναι Thl.). And this is not to confound ἵνα with ὅτι . Of the latter construction we have a plain example with ποταπός , in Matthew 8:27 ; ποταπός ἐστιν οὗτος , ὅτι καὶ οἱ ἄνεμοι … ὑπακούουσιν αὐτῷ . There, the  matter of fact is the ground of the wonderment expressed in the ποταπός “What a man must this be, seeing that …:” whereas here the ground of the wonderment is in the  result : “what manner of love … resulting in, proved by, our being, &c.” The effect of the love, that at which it is aimed in its immediate bestowal (its  Ziel ), is, that we should be called children of God: its ultimate purpose (its  Zweck ) is another thing. Cf. 1 John 3:11 ; 1 John 3:23 , where we have the same construction)  we should be called children of God (why has the Apostle rather used κληθῶμεν than ὦμεν ? Probably to bring forward the title, the reality of which, notwithstanding its non-recognition by the world, he is about to assert immediately. It is not that  καλεῖσθαι , as Baumg.-Crusius, = ἐξουσίαν ἔχειν γενέσθαι , John 1:12 , so that the sense should be, “that we have a right to presume to call ourselves children of God,” Neander: against this the aor.  κληθῶμεν is decisive, signifying our reception of the title once for all, and identifying this reception with the gift of love spoken of above. In this definite reference to an actual bestower of the name, probably an allusion is made to such prophecies as that cited 2Co 6:18 );  and we ARE (  so ):  for this cause the world doth not know (apprehend, recognize)  us; because it did not know Him (viz. God: the Father.
	The insertion of  καὶ ἐσμέν appears to serve the purpose of bringing out the reality of the state conferred upon us with this title, in spite of any non-recognition of it by the unbelieving world. To those, as Lücke and De Wette, who regard the preceding ἵνα as telic, the clause has no meaning, and they at once reject it as a gloss. Had it been, it would surely have been καὶ ὦμεν , as the vulg.  et simus . But in our rendering of the passage, καὶ ἐσμέν is of the highest possible significance. On ἐσμέν depends διὰ τοῦτο : and we ARE God’s children; for  this very reason , because we bear not the name only but the essence, the world knows us not: and then, as a reason for this ignorance following on this reality of our derivation from Him, because it knew Him not. The reality of a believer’s sonship of God, and his non-recognition by the world, are thus necessarily connected together. But Whom did the world not know, and when?  αὐτόν here, by the very requirements of the logic of the passage, must be the Father, who not being recognized, neither are His children: τὸν υἱοθετήσαντα , as Œc.; Aug [38] , Benson, al., understand  Christ : “ambulabat et ipse Dominus Jesus Christus, in carne erat Deus, latebat in infirmitate.” But this can only be, if we understand that the world rejected that revelation of the Father which was made by Christ His Son. And if we introduce this element, we disturb the strictness of the argument. It is the world’s ignorance of God, considered (and this is the force, if it is to be pressed, of the aor. ἔγνω ) as one great act of non-recognition, disobedience, rebellion, hate (for all these are involved in St. John’s οὐ γνῶναι , as their opposites in his γινώσκειν ), which makes them incapable of recognizing, loving, sympathizing with, those who are veritably children of God: cf. ch. 1Jn 5:1 ).
	 [38]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430