 8. ]  For (reason of the χαρῆναι )  though I even grieved you in (by means of)  my epistle, I do not (now)  repent (having written it),  though I even did repent it (before the coming of Titus). Erasm. al., take εἰ καὶ μετεμ . for ‘  even supposing I repented it before, which was not the case :’ Calv., al. think ‘verbum  pœnitendi improprie positum pro  dolorem capere .’ The reason of these departures from grammatical construction and the meaning of words, is, for fear the Apostle should seem to have  repented of that which he did under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. But there is no difficulty even on the strictest view of inspiration, in conceiving that the Apostle may have afterwards regretted the severity which he was guided to use; we know that Jonah, being directed by inspiration to pronounce the doom of Nineveh, endeavoured to escape the unwelcome duty: and doubtless St. Paul, as a man, in the weakness of his affection for the Corinthians, was tempted to wish that he had never written that which had given them pain. But the result shewed that God’s Spirit had ordered it well, that he should thus write: and this his repentance was  repented of again .
	 βλέπω γὰρ κ.τ.λ. ]  For I see that that letter, though but for a time, did grieve you . This seems the only admissible rendering of the words. Chrys. sees in them  the reason of οὐ μεταμέλομαι , and adds (Hom. xv. p. 543) τὸ μὲν γὰρ λυπηρὸν βραχύ , τὸ δὲ ὠφέλιμον διηνεκές . It appears then that he would render εἰ καὶ πρὸς ὥραν , ‘  if even for a season ,’ = ‘  scarcely for any time .’ Rinck (lucubr. crit. p. 162) would begin a new sentence with εἰ καὶ μετεμελόμην , and parenthesizing βλέπω .… ὑμᾶς , regard  νῦν χαίρω , κ . τ . λ . as the  apodosis . But this is very unnatural, with so abrupt a beginning as εἰ καί . It would certainly have been εἰ δὲ καί : and the  present , βλέπω , would give no reason for the  past , μετεμελόμην , which had passed away. The best sense, as well as the most legitimate rendering, is to regard βλέπω .… ὑμᾶς as the epexegesis of ἐλύπησα , as above.