 4 6 .]  The Millennial reign .  And I saw thrones (combine the two passages in the reff.),  and they sat upon them (who? the Apostles, as in ref. Matt.: the Saints, as in 1 Corinthians 6:2-3 , οὐκ οἴδατε ὅτι οἱ ἅγιοι τὸν κόσμον κρινοῦσιν ; … οὐκ οἴδατε ὅτι ἀγγέλους κρινοῦμεν ; Notice well, that there is nothing to hinder this in the souls of the saints not being seen till the next clause: for there is no mark of temporal sequence connecting the two verses: nay, such an idea is precluded by the specification at the end of Revelation 20:4 , that those very souls of the saints are they who reigned with Christ, and were His assessors in reigning and judging, during this time),  and judgment (  κρῖμα , the act and decision of judgment)  was given to them (so in ref. Daniel (Theod.), ἕως οὗ ἦλθεν ὁ παλαιὸς ἡμερῶν , καὶ τὸ κρῖμα ἔδωκεν ἁγίοις ὑψίστου . That is, they were constituted judges).  And I saw the souls of them who had been beheaded (the word πελεκίζω , to smite with the axe, is found in Polybius (i. 7. 12, xi. 30. 2), Strabo, Plutarch, and Diodorus Siculus, in the sense of beheading)  on account of the testimony of Jesus and on account of the word of God (ref.),  and (of those)  the which did not worship (during life)  the beast nor yet his image, and did not receive the mark (mentioned ch. Rev 13:16 )  on their forehead and upon their hand: and they lived (i. e. “  lived again ;” ἔζησαν = ἀνέζησαν , as in reff.: and, as the act is presently described as the first  resurrection , with their bodies, perfect and complete)  and reigned with Christ (took part in His Kingdom; see ch. Rev 1:6 ; 2 Timothy 2:12 ; also 1Co 4:8 and note)  a thousand years (it would certainly appear that this reigning includes the office of judgment. Many interpreters suppose that these saints are the judged: so recently Düsterd.: but there is nothing in the context, nor in other parts of Scripture, to favour this idea. Nay, it is expressly negatived by our Lord’s saying in John 5:24 , ἀμὴν ἀμὴν λέγω ὑμῖν ὅτι ὁ τὸν λόγον μου ἀκούων καὶ πιστεύων τῷ πέμψαντί με ἔχει ζωὴν αἰώνιον , καὶ  εἰς κρίσιν οὐκ ἔρχεται , ἀλλὰ μεταβέβηκεν ἐκ τοῦ θανάτου εἰς τὴν ζωήν ).  The rest of the dead lived not (  again , as above)  until the thousand years be completed. This (  αὕτη is not the  subject , as De Wette, but the  predicate , as in all such cases: the reduction of the proposition to the logical form requiring its inversion)  is the first resurrection (remarks on the interpretation of this passage will be found in the Prolegomena, § v. par. 33. It will have been long ago anticipated by the readers of this Commentary, that I cannot consent to distort words from their plain sense and chronological place in the prophecy, on account of any considerations of difficulty, or any risk of abuses which the doctrine of the millennium may bring with it. Those who lived next to the Apostles, and the whole Church for 300 years, understood them in the plain literal sense: and it is a strange sight in these days to see expositors who are among the first in reverence of antiquity, complacently casting aside the most cogent instance of consensus which primitive antiquity presents. As regards the text itself, no legitimate treatment of it will extort what is known as the spiritual interpretation now in fashion. If, in a passage where  two resurrections are mentioned, where certain ψυχαὶ ἔζησαν at the first, and the rest of the νεκροὶ ἔζησαν only at the end of a specified period after that first, if in such a passage the first resurrection may be understood to mean  spiritual rising with Christ, while the second means  literal rising from the grave; then there is an end of all significance in language, and Scripture is wiped out as a definite testimony to any thing. If the first resurrection is spiritual, then so is the second, which I suppose none will be hardy enough to maintain: but if the second is literal, then so is the first, which in common with the whole primitive Church and many of the best modern expositors, I do maintain, and receive as an article of faith and hope).  Blessed (see ch. Revelation 14:13 , Rev 19:9 )  and holy is he that hath part in (ref., the expression is peculiar to St. John)  the first resurrection: over such persons the second death (see reff.: and bear in mind what is said of our Lord Himself, Rom 6:9 )  hath not power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they [  shall ]  reign with Him (Christ)  a (or,  the )  thousand years .