 7 10 .]  Loosing of Satan at the end of the millennium: gathering together and destruction of the nations: final condemnation of Satan .
	 And when the thousand years are completed, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison (see Revelation 20:3 . The prophetic future is here used: but in Rev 20:9 the historic form with aorists is resumed)  and shall go forth to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth (there will be nations on earth besides the saints reigning with Christ, who during the binding of Satan have been quiet and willing subjects of the Kingdom, but who on his being let loose are again subjected to his temptations, which stir them into rebellion against God),  Gog and Magog (compare Ezekiel 38, 39 throughout. This which is here prophesied is the great final fulfilment of those chapters. And the names Gog and Magog, taken from there, had been used in the rabbinical books to signify the nations which should in the latter days come up to Jerusalem against the Messiah. So the Jerus. Targum on Numbers 11:27 , in Wetst., “In fine extremitatis dierum Gog et Magog et exercitus eorum adscendent Hierosolyma et per manus regis Messiæ ipsi cadent et vii. annos dierum ardebunt filii Israel ex armis eorum:” and Avoda sara, 1: “quando videbunt bellum Gog et Magog, dicet ad eos Messias: ad quid huc venistis? Respondebunt, Adversus Dominum et adversus Christum ejus.” This name Magog occurs Genesis 10:2 , as that of a son of Japhet, in company with brethren whose names mostly belong to northern and north-eastern nations: Gomer (Kimmerians), Madai (Medians), Meshech (Muscovites), &c. With these however are joined in Ezekiel 38:5 , Persians, Ethiopians, Libyans. Josephus renders the word Σκύθαι (Antt. i. 6. 3), Μαγώγης δὲ τοὺς ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ Μαγώγας ὀνομασθέντας ᾤκισε , Σκύθας δὲ ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν ( τ . Ἑλλήνων ) προσαγορευομένους , and so Jerome: Suidas, “Persians ( Μαγώγ , ὁ Πέρσης ).” It seems to be a general name for the northern nations, and Gog, if at least we may follow the analogy of Ezekiel 38:2 , is their prince),  to gather them together to the (well-known)  war: of whom the number (  of them )  is as the sand of the sea. And they went up (the historical aor. is here resumed)  upon the breadth of the earth (i. e. entirely overspread it; see ref.)  and encompassed the camp of the saints, and the beloved city (by these two is probably meant one and the same thing, the καί being epexegetical; or at all events the camp must be conceived as surrounding and defending the city. The πόλις ἡ ἠγαπημένη is Jerusalem (reff.): not the  new Jerusalem, but the earthly city of that name, which is destined yet to play so glorious a part in the latter days).  And there came down fire out of heaven (so in reff. Ezek.),  and devoured them: and the devil that deceiveth them (the pres. part. merely  designates : the devil their deceiver)  was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where also are the beast and the false prophet (ch. Rev 19:20 ).  And they shall be tormented by day and by night to the ages of the ages .