 11 15 .]  The general judgment .  And I saw a great white throne (great, in distinction from the thrones before mentioned, Revelation 20:4 ; white, as seen in purest light, and symbolizing the most blameless justice),  and Him that sitteth on it (viz. God: the Father: see ch. Revelation 4:3 , Revelation 21:5 . It is necessary to keep to the well-known formula of the book in interpreting τὸν καθήμενον ἐπ ʼ αὐτοῦ , even though some expressions and sayings seem better to belong to the Son. Be it also remembered that it is the Father who giveth all judgment to the Son: and though He Himself judgeth no man, yet He is ever described as present in the judgment, and mankind as judged before Him. We need not find in this view any difficulty, or discrepancy with such passages as Matthew 25:31 , seeing that our Lord Himself says in ch. Revelation 3:21 , ἐγὼ .… ἐκάθισα μετὰ τοῦ πατρός μου ἐν τῷ θρόνῳ αὐτοῦ . Nor need we be surprised at the sayings of our Lord, such as that in ch. Revelation 21:6 b, being uttered by Him that sitteth on the throne. That throne is now the throne of God and of the Lamb, ch. Revelation 22:1 . Cf. also ch. Rev 21:22 ),  from whose face the earth and the heaven fled, and place was not found for them (these words again seem to indicate the presence of One who has not hitherto appeared: whereas Christ in glory has been long present on earth. This fleeing away of heaven and earth is elsewhere described as their consumption by fire, 2 Peter 3:10-12 . Both descriptions indicate the passing away of their present corruptible state and change to a state glorious and incorruptible).  And I saw the dead (viz. the λοιποὶ τῶν νεκρῶν of Revelation 20:5 ; those who rose as described below, Rev 20:13 ),  the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened (see ref. Dan.),  and another book was opened, which is (  the book )  of life (Düsterd. remarks that the order of proceedings indicated seems to be that the contents of the books in which were written the works of men indicated whether they were to be found in the book of life. But this could hardly be: for in that case, what need for the book of life at all? Rather should we say that those books and the book of life bore independent witness to the fact of men being or not being among the saved: the one by inference from the works recorded: the other by inscription or non-inscription of the name in the list. So the ‘books’ would be as it were the vouchers for the book of life):  and the dead were judged out of the things written in the books according to their works (reff.: and 2Co 5:10 ).  And the sea gave forth the dead that were in her (the citation in Wetst. from Achilles Tatius, v. p. 313 B, λέγουσι δὲ τὰς ἐν ὕδασι ψυχὰς ἀνῃρημένας μηδὲ εἰς ᾅδου καταβαίνειν ὅλως , ἀλλ ʼ αὐτοῦ περὶ τὸ ὕδωρ ἔχειν τὴν πλάνην , is no illustration of this passage, which simply imports that the dead contained in the sea shall rise),  and Death and Hades (see ch. Revelation 1:18 , Rev 6:8 )  gave forth the dead which were in them (i. e. all the dead, buried and unburied, rose again),  and they were judged each according to their (his)  works. And Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire (Death and Hades are regarded as two dæmons, enemies of God. So in 1 Corinthians 15:26 , ἔσχατος ἐχθρὸς καταργεῖται ὁ θάνατος : and in Isaiah 25:8 , Heb. and E. V., not LXX, “He will swallow up death in victory,” cf. 1 Corinthians 15:54 . Hades, as in ch. Revelation 6:8 , is Death’s follower and the receiver of his prey. The punishment of sin is inflicted on both, because both are the offspring of and bound up with sin).  This is the second death, the lake of fire (thus then our Lord’s saying, ch. Revelation 2:11 , and that of the Apostle in our Revelation 20:6 , are explained. As there is a second and higher life, so there is also a second and deeper death. And as after that life there is no more death (ch. Rev 21:4 ), so after that death there is no more life, Revelation 20:10 ; Mat 25:41 ).  And if any was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire (there was no intermediate state).