 1.   ἀνήχθη εἰς τ  .   ἔ  . ] The Spirit carried Him away, (see Acts 8:39 ,) αὐτὸν ἐκβάλλει , Mark 1:12 ; compare Chrysostom’s excellent remarks on this agency of the Holy Spirit, in the opening of his 13th homily, p. 167. Had St. Luke’s ἤγετο ἐν τῷ πν . been our  only account, we might have supposed what took place to have been done  in a vision: but the expressions in the two other Evangelists, entirely preclude this. The  desert here spoken of may either be the traditional place of the Temptation near Jericho (thence called  Quarantaria: it is described in “The Land and the Book,” p. 617, as a high and precipitous mountain, with its side facing the plain perpendicular, and apparently as high as the rock of Gibraltar, and with caverns midway below, hewn in the rock), or as scripture parallelism between Moses, Elias, and our Lord, leads one to think, the  Arabian desert of Sinai .
	 πειρασθῆναι ] The express  purpose of ἀνήχθη . No other rendering is even grammatical. Hence it is evident that our Lord at this time was not ‘led up’ of his own will and design, but as a part of the conflict with the Power of Darkness, He was  brought to the Temptation. As He had been subject to his earthly parents at Nazareth, so now He is subject, in the outset of His official course, to his Heavenly Parent, and is by His will thus carried up to be tempted. In reverently considering the nature and end of this temptation, we may observe, (1) That the whole is  undoubtedly an objective historical narrative , recording an actual conflict between our Redeemer and the Power of Evil. (2) That it is undetermined by the  letter of the sacred text, whether the Tempter appeared  in a bodily shape , or,  as a spirit , was permitted to exert a certain power, as in Matthew 4:5 , and Matthew 4:8 , over the person of our Lord, even as the Holy Spirit did in Matthew 4:1 . If the latter were the case, the words spoken at the various stages of the temptation, were suggested by this Evil Power to the soul of our Redeemer. But (3) such an interpretation, while it cannot justly be accused of unreality by any who do not reject belief in the spiritual world, hardly meets the expressions of the text, προσελθών Matthew 4:3 , ἐὰν πεσὼν προσκυνήσῃς μοι Matthew 4:9 , and ἀφίησιν αὐτόν Matthew 4:11 . Nor do the two members of Mat 4:11 correspond to one another in this case, for the ἄγγελοι must have been visible and corporeal, as in the parallel case at Gethsemane, Luke 22:43 .
	 διαβόλου ] The  accuser , or  adversary:  Satan. Not any  human tempter or foe: no example can be adduced of a  man being absolutely called  ὁ διάβ . In John 6:70 , Judas is by our Lord called διάβ ., which is the generic substantive without the article; and in Esther 7:4 ; Esther 8:1 , Haman is called ὁ διάβολος , where the art. has no such meaning as would be here required.