 18.   παρὰ τὴν θάλασσαν τῆς Γαλιλαίας ] The lake of Gennesareth or Tiberias ( Joh 6:1 ), called in the O.T. “the sea of Chinnereth,” Numbers 34:11 , or Chinneroth, Joshua 12:3 ; the Γεννησαρῖτις λίμνη of Josephus, Antt. xviii. 2. 1: Strabo xvi. p. 755: Plin. Matthew 4:16 : Ptol [30] Matthew 4:15 . It is of an oval shape, about 13 geographical miles long, and 6 broad: and is traversed by the Jordan from N. to S. “Its most remarkable feature is its deep depression, being no less than 700 feet below the level of the ocean.” See the interesting article by Mr. Porter in Smith’s Biblical Dictionary.
	 [30] Ptolemæus gnosticus apud Epiphanium
	If we give any consideration to the circumstances here related, we cannot fail to see that the account in John is admirably calculated to complete the narrative. We have there furnished to us the reason why these two brethren were so ready to arise and follow One, whom, if we had this account only, we should infer they had never before seen. Add to this, that there is every probability that one of the other pair of brethren, John the son of Zebedee, is there described as having gone with Andrew to the dwelling of our Lord. It also tends to confirm the chronological view here taken, that Philip, the only one mentioned expressly by John as  having been called by Jesus, is  not mentioned here as called: and that Andrew, and the other disciple of John the Baptist, clearly were not  called by Jesus in John 1:35-40 , or the words παρ ʼ αὐτῷ ἔμειναν τὴν ἡμέραν ἐκείνην , could not have been used: that these two  continued disciples of the Baptist, is not probable; but that they were henceforth, but not invariably, attached to our Lord. I believe that the disciple whom Jesus loved was in His company during the whole of the events in John 2:1-25 ; John 3:1-36 ; John 4:1-54 ; John 5:1-47 , and on His return from Judæa with His disciples, John having for a time returned to his business, as our Lord was now resident in Capernaum, received, as here related, this more solemn and final call. We must remember, that the disciples would naturally have gone up to Jerusalem at the Passover, John 2:23 ,  without a call from the Lord , and by what they saw there would become more firmly attached to him. The circumstance related in John 21:1-25 , that even after they were assured of the Resurrection, the Apostles  returned to their occupation as fishermen, gives additional probability to the usual explanation of the call in our text.