 3.   καὶ προσελθών ] From the words of both St. Mark and St. Luke, it appears that our Lord was tempted  also during the forty days . Whether the words of St. Mark, ἦν μετὰ τῶν θηρίων , allude to  one kind of temptation, is uncertain: see note on Mark 1:13 . The word προσελθ . need not be understood of the  first approach, but the first  recorded ‘at a certain time the tempter approaching, &c.’
	 ὁ πειράζων  , ‘the tempter.’ Here first we find the N.T. meaning of πειράζειν ,  to solicit to sin , which does not occur in the LXX, nor in the classics. The use of the pres. part. with the art., as denoting employ, or office, is very common. See, among other places, John 4:36-37 , and ch. Matthew 13:3 ; Matthew 26:46 ; Matthew 26:48 . Cf. Winer, § 18. 3.
	 εἰ ] νομίζων ὑποκλέπτειν αὐτὸν τοῖς ἐγκωμίοις , Chrys. Or, as Euthymius, ᾤετο ὅτι παρακνισθήσεται τῷ λόγῳ , καθάπερ ὀνειδισθεὶς ἐπὶ τῷ μὴ εἶναι υἱὸς θεοῦ . At all events, there is no  doubt expressed, as Wolf and Bengel think.
	 υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ ] In the N.T. are found  three combinations of these two substantives and the article, and  all with one and the same meaning , viz. THE SON OF GOD, in the highest and Messianic sense. (1) The expression in the text, of which our Lord says, John 10:36 , ὃν ὁ Πατὴρ ἡγίασεν καὶ ἀπέστειλεν εἰς τὸν κόσμον ὑμεῖς λέγετε ὅτι βλασφημεῖς ὅτι εἶπον  Υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ εἰμι ; see also Matthew 27:40 . (2) ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ θ . In John 9:35 , we read, σὺ πιστεύεις εἰς  τὸυ υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ  ; … ὁ λαλῶν μετὰ σοῦ  ἐκεῖνός ἐστιν . (3) υἱὸς θ . In Luke 1:35 , τὸ γεννώμενον ἅγιον κληθήσεται  υἱὸς θεοῦ  . See also ch. Matthew 27:54 ( [28] Mk.), and notes there and on Luke 23:47 .
	 [28] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .