But lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven,.... That is, either be concerned for, and seek after heavenly treasure, the riches of glory, the joys and glories of another world, which infinitely excel everything that is valuable on earth; and which can never be corrupted, or taken away: or rather, lay up your earthly treasures in heaven; that is, put them into the hands of God in heaven; and this is done, by liberally communicating to the poor; by which means men "provide themselves bags which wax not old, and a treasure in heaven that faileth not", Luke 12:33. They shall never want any good thing here, and they "lay up in store for themselves, a good foundation against the time to come", 1 Timothy 6:18. This is the way to have worldly treasure secured from moth, rust, and thieves; for to lay it up in heaven with God, to give it to him, to his poor, to make use of it for his glory, is to lay it up in a place,where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. Treasures are safer here than in our own hands, and will turn to better account, and more to our own advantage, both in this life, and that which is to come: seeMatthew 19:21. In this way, though not for it, men come to have treasure in heaven, even the treasure of eternal life, glory, and happiness. Heaven is often represented by the Jewish writers as a treasury; and the treasures which are in it are said n to be"Myyx yzng, "treasures of life", and treasures of peace, and treasures of blessing; and the souls of the righteous, and the spirits and souls that shall be created, and the dew with which God will quicken the dead.''Those words in Deuteronomy 31:16. "And the Lord said unto Moses, thou shalt sleep with thy fathers", are thus o paraphrased."And the Lord said unto Moses, lo! thou shalt sleep in the dust with thy fathers, and thy soul shall be treasured upבגנזי חיי עלמא, "in the treasury of eternal life", with thy fathers.''They tell us p of a story of Monbaz the king, who was son to queen Helena; in which are many things agreeable to these words of Christ, and which may serve to illustrate them."Monbaz the king stood and gave all his goods to the poor: his relations sent to him, and said, thy fathers added to that which was their's, and to that which was their fathers; but thou hast given away that which was thine, and that which was thy father's: he replied to them all thus: my fathers גנזו בארץ ואני גנזתי בשמים, "laid up treasure on earth, but I have laid up treasure in heaven", according to Psalms 85:11. My fathers laid up treasures, which do not bring forth fruit; but I have laid up treasures, which bring forth fruit, according to Isaiah 3:10. My fathers gathered in a place, where the hand, i.e. of man rules, (where thieves break through and steal,) but I have gathered in a place where the hand of man does not rule, according to Psalms 97:2. My fathers gathered mammon, money, but I have gathered souls, according to Proverbs 11:30. My fathers gathered for others, but I have gathered לעצמי, for myself, according to Deuteronomy 24:13. My fathers gathered in this world, but I have gathered "for the world to come".''One of their commentators q on the phrase, "my fathers laid up treasures below", as it is in the Babylonish Talmud r, has this remark:"for lo! all that they treasured up was for the necessaries of this world; which is מקום עפר רמה תולעה, "a place of dust and vermin", which corrupt and destroy everything; "but I have laid up treasures above", a place secure and firm, and which preserves everything that is put into it.''n T. Bab. Chagiga, fol. 12. 2. o Targum Jon. ben Uzziel, in Deut. xxxi. 16. p T. Hieros. Peah, fol. 15. 2. q Caphtor, fol. 97. 1. r T. Bab. Bava Bathra, fol. 11. 1.