 Other foundation  (θεμελιον αλλον). The gender of the adjective is here masculine as is shown by αλλον. If neuter, it would be αλλο. It is masculine because Paul has Christ in mind. It is not here ετερον a different kind of gospel (ετερον ευαγγελιον, Galatians 1:6; 2 Corinthians 11:4) which is not another (αλλο, Galatians 1:7) in reality. But another Jesus (2 Corinthians 11:4, αλλον Ιησουν) is a reflection on the one Lord Jesus. Hence there is no room on the platform with Jesus for another Saviour, whether Buddha, Mahomet, Dowie, Eddy, or what not. Jesus Christ is the one foundation and it is gratuitous impudence for another to assume the role of Foundation.Than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus  (παρα τον κειμενον, ος εστιν Ιησους Χριστος). Literally, "alongside (παρα) the one laid (κειμενον)," already laid (present middle participle of κειμα, used here as often as the perfect passive of τιθημ in place of τεθειμενον). Paul scouts the suggestion that one even in the interest of so-called "new thought" will dare to lay beside Jesus another foundation for religion. And yet I have seen an article by a professor in a theological seminary in which he advocates regarding Jesus as a landmark, not as a goal, not as a foundation. Clearly Paul means that on this one true foundation, Jesus Christ, one must build only what is in full harmony with the Foundation which is Jesus Christ. If one accuses Paul of narrowness, it can be replied that the architect has to be narrow in the sense of building here and not there. A broad foundation will be too thin and unstable for a solid and abiding structure. It can be said also that Paul is here merely repeating the claim of Jesus himself on this very subject when he quoted Psalms 118:22 to the members of the Sanhedrin who challenged his authority (Mark 11:10; Matthew 21:42-45; Luke 20:17). Apostles and prophets go into this temple of God, but Christ Jesus is the chief corner stone (ακρογωναιος, Ephesians 2:20). All believers are living stones in this temple (1 Peter 2:5). But there is only one foundation possible. 