Which none of the princes - None of those rulers who were engaged in the crucifixion of the Messiah, referring both to the Jewish rulers, and the Roman governor.Knew - They did not perceive or appreciate the excellency of his character, the wisdom of his plan, the glory of his scheme of salvation. Their ignorance arose from not understanding the prophecies, and from an unwillingness to be convinced that Jesus of Nazareth had been truly sent by God. In Acts 3:17, Peter says that it was through ignorance that the Jews had put him to death; see the note on this place.For had they known it - Had they fully understood his character, and seen the wisdom of his plan, and his work, they would not have put him to death; see the note on Acts 3:17. Had they seen the hidden wisdom in that plan - had they understood the glory of his real character, the truth respecting his incarnation, and the fact that he was the long expected Messiah of their nation, they would not have put him to death. It is incredible that they would have crucified their Messiah, knowing and believing him to be such. They might have known it but they were unwilling to examine the evidence. They expected a different Messiah, and were unwilling to admit the claims of Jesus of Nazareth. For This ignorance, however, there was no excuse. If they did not have a full knowledge, it was their own fault. Jesus had performed miracles which were a complete attestation to his divine mission John 5:36; John 10:25; but they closed their eyes on those works, and were unwilling to be convinced - God always gives to people sufficient demonstration of the truth, but they close their eyes, and are unwilling to believe. This is the sole reason why they are not converted to God and saved.They would not have crucified - It is perfectly manifest that the Jews would not have crucified their own Messiah, “knowing him to be such.” He was the hope and expectation of their nation. All their desires were centered in him. And to him they looked for deliverance from all their foes.The Lord of glory - This expression is a Hebraism, and means “the glorious Lord;” or the “Messiah.” Expressions like this, where a noun performs the office of an adjective, are common in the Hebrew language - Grotius supposes that the expression is taken from that of “the King of glory,” in Psalms 24:7-9 -  Lift up your heads, O ye gates, Be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, And the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? Jehovah, strong and mighty. Jehovah, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; Lift them up, ye everlasting doors; And the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? Jehovah of hosts, he is the King of glory.God is called “the God of glory” in Acts 7:2 - The fact that this appellation is given to Yahweh in the Old Testament, and to the Lord Jesus in the verse before us, is one of those incidental circumstances which show how the Lord Jesus was estimated by the apostles and how familiarly they applied to him names and titles which belong only to God. The foundation of this appellation is laid in his exalted perfections; and in the honor and majesty which he had with the Father before the world was; John 17:1-5.