 1 5 .]  Exhortation to forbearance and humility .  Brethren (bespeaks their attention by a friendly address; marking also the opening of a new subject, connected however with the foregoing: see above),  if a man be even surprised ( προλημφθῇ has the emphasis, on account of the καί . This makes it necessary to assign a meaning to it which shall justify its emphatic position. And such meaning is clearly not found in the ordinary renderings. E.g. Chrysostom, ἐὰν συναρπαγῇ , so E. V. ‘  overtaken ,’ and De Wette, al., which could not be emphatic, but would be palliative: Grotius, ‘  si quis antea (h.e. antequam hæc ep. ad vos veniat)  deprehensus fuerit :’ Winer, ‘  etiam si (si vel)  quis antea deprehensus fuerit in peccato, eum tamen (iterum peccantem)  corrigite :’ Olsh., who regards the προ - almost as expletive, betokening merely that the λαμβάνεσθαι comes in time before the καταρτίζειν . The only meaning which satisfies the emphasis is that of being caught in the fact, ‘  flagrante delicto ,’ before he can escape: which, though unusual, seems justified by ref. Wisd.: and so Meyer, Ellic., al.)  in any transgression (with the meaning ‘overtaken’ for προλημφθῇ , falls also that of ‘  inadvertence ’ for  παράπτωμα  . The stronger meaning of ‘  sin ,’ is far commoner in St. Paul: see ref. Rom. and ib. Romans 5:15-16 ; Romans 5:20 ; 2 Corinthians 5:19 ; Ephesians 1:7 ; Ephesians 2:1 ; Ephesians 2:5 ; Col 2:13 bis),  do ye, the spiritual ones (said not in irony, but  bonâ fide : referring not to the clergy only, but to every believer),  restore (Beza, Hammond, Bengel, al., have imagined an allusion to a dislocated limb being reduced into place: but the simple ethical sense is abundantly justified by examples: see Herodot., cited on 1 Corinthians 1:10 ; Stob. i. 85, καταρτίζειν φίλους διαφερομένους (Ellic.))  such a person (see especially 1 Corinthians 5:5 ; 1Co 5:11 )  in the spirit of meekness (beware of the silly  hendiadys : Chrys. gives the right allusion, οὐκ εἶπεν “ ἐν πραότητι ,” ἀλλ ʼ “ ἐν πνεύματι πραότητος ·” δηλῶν ὅτι καὶ τῷ πνεύματι ταῦτα δοκεῖ , καὶ τὸ δύνασθαι μετ ʼ ἐπιεικείας διορθοῦν τοὺς ἁμαρτάνοντας , χαρίσματός ἐστι πνευματικοῦ : and Ellic., “ πν . here seems  immediately to refer to the state of the inward Spirit as wrought upon by the Holy Spirit, and  ultimately to the Holy Spirit, as the inworking power. Cf. Romans 1:4 ; Romans 8:15 ; 2 Corinthians 4:13 ; Ephesians 1:17 ; in all of which cases πι . seems to indicate the Holy Spirit, and the abstract genitive the specific χάρισμα ”),  looking to thyself (we have the same singling out of individuals from a multitude previously addressed in Thucyd. i. 42, ὧν ἐνθυμηθέντες , καὶ νεώτερός τις παρὰ πρεσβυτέρον μαθών , ἀξιούτω … ἡμᾶς ἀμύνεσθαι . See more examples in Bernhardy, p. 421),  lest thou also be tempted (on a similar occasion: notice the aorist).