 17 .]  τοῦ λοιποῦ , as E. V.,  henceforth : scil., χρόνου . So Herod. iii. 15, ἔνθα τοῦ λοιποῦ διαιτᾶτο : see numerous other examples in Wetstein. “  τὸ λοιπόν continuum et perpetuum tempus significat, ut apud Xen. Cyr. viii. 5. 24;  τοῦ λοιποῦ autem repetitionem ejusdem facti reliquo tempore indicat, ut apud Aristoph. in Pace, v. 1684 (1050 Bekk.).” Hermann ad Viger., p. 706. But the above example from Herod. hardly seems to bear this out. Rather is a thing happening in time regarded as  belonging to the period including it, and the genitive is one of possession. Against this Ellic., viewing the gen. as simply partitive, refers to Donalds. Gram. § 451: who however defines his meaning by saying “partitive, or, what is the same thing, possessive.” This indeed must be the clear and only account of a partitive genitive.
	 κόπ  .   παρεχ  . ] How? Thdrt. (hardly Chrys.), al., understand it of the trouble of writing more epistles οὐκέτι , φησί , γράψαι τὶ πάλιν ἀνέξομαι · ἀντὶ δὲ γραμμάτων τοὺς μώλωπας δείκνυμι , κ . τῶν αἰκισμῶν τὰ σημεῖα . But it seems much more natural to take it of giving him trouble by rebellious conduct and denying his apostolic authority, seeing that it was stamped with so powerful a seal as he proceeds to state.
	 ἐγὼ γάρ ]  for it is I (not the Judaizing teachers)  who carry (perhaps as in Galatians 6:5 , and ch. Galatians 5:10 , bear, as a burden: but Chrys.’s idea seems more adapted to the ‘  feierlich ’ character of the sentence: οὐκ εἶπεν , ἔχω , ἀλλά , βαστάζω , ὥσπερ τις ἐπὶ τροπαίοις μέγα φρονῶν ἢ σημείοις βασιλικοῖς : see reff. (2)) in (on)  my body the marks of Jesus .
	 τὰ στίγματα , the marks branded on slaves to indicate their owners. So Herod. vii. 233, τοὺς πλεῦνας αὐτέων , κελεύσαντος  Ξ έρξεω , ἔστιζον στίγματα βασιλήϊα : and in another place (ii. 113) is a passage singularly in point: ὅτεῳ ἀνθρώπων ἐπιβάληται στίγματα ἱρά , ἑωϋτὸν διδοὺς τῷ θεῷ , οὐκ ἔξεστι τούτου ἅψασθαι . See many more examples in Wetst. These marks, in St. Paul’s case, were of course the  scars of his wounds received in the service of his Master cf. 2 Corinthians 11:23 ff.
	 Ἰησοῦ is the genitive of possession, answering to the possessive βασιλήϊα in the extract above. There is no allusion whatever to any similarity between himself and our Lord, ‘the marks which Jesus bore;’ such an allusion would be quite irrelevant: and with its irrelevancy falls a whole fabric of Romanist superstition which has been raised on this verse, and which the fair and learned Windischmann, giving as he does the honest interpretation here, yet attempts to defend in a supplemental note.
	Neither can we naturally suppose any comparison intended between these his στίγματα as Christ’s servant, and  circumcision : for he is not now on that subject, but on his  authority as sealed by Christ : and such a comparison is alien from the majesty of the sentence.