 6 .]  As then (he has described his conflict and his joy on their behalf he now exhorts them to justify such anxiety and approval by consistency with their first faith)  ye received (from Epaphras and your first teachers)  Jesus the Christ the Lord (it is necessary, in order to express the full sense of τὸν χρ . Ἰησ . τὸν κύρ ., to give something of a predicative force both to τὸν χρ . and to τὸν κύρ .: see 1 Corinthians 12:3 (but hardly so strong as “for your Lord,” as rendered in my earlier editions: see Ellicott here).
	The expression ὁ χρ . Ἰησ . ὁ κύρ . occurs only here: the nearest approach to it is in 2 Corinthians 4:5 , … κηρύσσομεν … χριστὸν Ἰησ . κύριον : where also κύρ . is a predicate: but this is even more emphatic and solemn. Cf. also Philippians 3:8 , τὸ ὑπερέχον τῆς γνώσεως χρ . Ἰησοῦ τοῦ κυρ . μου . On the sense, Bisping says well: “Notice that Paul here says, παρελάβετε τὸν χριστόν , and not παρελ . τὸν λόγον τοῦ χρ . True faith is a spiritual communion: for in faith we receive not only the doctrine of Christ, but Himself, into us: in faith He Himself dwells in us: we cannot separate Christ, as Eternal Truth, and His doctrine”),  in Him walk (carry on your life of faith and practice),  rooted (see Eph 3:18 )  and being continually built up in Him (as both the soil and the foundation in both cases the conditional element. It is to be noticed 1) how the fervid style of St. Paul, disdaining the nice proprieties of rhetoric, sets forth the point in hand by inconsistent similitudes: the walking implying motion, the rooting and building, rest; 2) that the rooting, answering to the first elementary grounding in Him, is in the past: the being built up, answering to the continual increase in Him, is present. See Ephesians 2:20 , where this latter is set forth as a fact in the past)  and confirmed in the (or, your)  faith (dat. of reference: it seems hardly natural with Mey. to take it instrumental, as there is no question of instrumental means in this passage),  as ye were taught, abounding in it (reff.)  in thanksgiving (the field of operation, or element, in which that abundance is manifested. “Non solum volo vos esse confirmatos in fide, verum etiam in ea proficere et proficiendo abundare per pleniorem mysteriorum Christi cognitionem: idque cum gratiarum actione erga Deum, ut auctorem hujus totius boni.” Est.).