 9 .] (supply, ‘as all true philosophy ought to be’)  because in Him (emphatic: in Him  alone )  dwelleth (now, in His exaltation)  all the fulness (cf. on ch. Colossians 1:19 , and see below)  of the Godhead (Deity: the essential being of God: ‘  das Gott sein ,’ as Meyer.  θεότης , the abstract of θεός , must not be confounded with θειότης the abstract of θεῖος , divine, which occurs in Romans 1:20 , where see Fritzsche’s note. θεότης does not occur in the classics, but is found in Lucian, Icaromenippus, c. 9: τὸν μέν τινα πρῶτον θεὸν ἐπεκάλουν , τοῖς δὲ τὰ δεὺτερα κ . τὰ τρίτα ἔνεμον τῆς θεότητος . ‘The fulness of the Godhead’ here spoken of must be taken, as indeed the context shews, metaphysically, and not as ‘all fulness’ in ch. Colossians 1:19 , where the historical Christ, as manifested in redemption, was in question; see this well set forth in Mey.’s note. There, the lower side, so to speak, of that fulness, was set forth the side which is presented to us here, is the higher side. Some strangely take πλήρωμα here to mean the Church so Heinr. in Mey.: “Ab eo collecta est omnis ex omnibus sine discrimine gentibus ecclesia, eo tauquam οἴκῳ , tanquam σώματι , continetur gubernaturque.” Others again hold  Christ here to  mean the Church, in whom [or which] the πλήρωμα dwells: so τινές in Thdrt. and Chrys.)  bodily (i.e. manifested corporeally, in His present glorified Body cf. on οἰκεῖ above, and Philippians 3:21 . Before His incarnation, it dwelt in Him, as the λόγος ἄσαρκος , but not σωματικῶς , as now that He is the λόγος ἔνσαρκος . This is the obvious, and I am persuaded only tenable interpretation. And so Calov., Est., De W., Mey., Eadie, al. Others have been 1) ‘  really ,’ as distinguished from τυπικῶς : so, resting for the most part on Colossians 2:17 , where the reference is quite different, Aug., Corn.-a-lap., Grot., Schöttg., Wolf, Nösselt, Revelation 2:0 ) ‘  essentially ,’ οὐσιωδῶς , as contrasted with the energic dwelling of God in the prophets: the objection to which is that the word cannot have this meaning: so Cyr., Thl., Calv., Beza, Usteri, p. 324, Olsh., al.),  and ye are (already there is an emphasis in the prefixing of ἐστε )  in Him (in your union with Him, ‘Christo cum sitis semel insiti,’ Erasm. in Mey.)  filled up (with all divine gifts so that you need not any supplementary sources of grace such as your teachers are directing you to, reff.: τῆς γὰρ ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ χάριτος ἀπελαύσατε , as Thdrt.: cf. John 1:16 , ἐκ τοῦ πληρώματος αὐτοῦ ἡμεῖς πάντες ἑλάβομεν : not, as Chrys., Thl., De W., ‘with the fulness of the Godhead,’ which is  not true , and would require ἧς ἐστε καὶ ὑμεῖς ἐν αὐτ . πεπλ .
	Nor must ἐστε be taken as imperative, against the whole context, which is assertive, no less than usage ‘verbum ἐστέ nunquam in N. T. sensu imperandi adhibitum invenio, v. c. ἐστὲ οἰκτίρμονες , sed potius γίνεσθε , cf. 1 Corinthians 10:32 ; 1 Corinthians 11:1 ; 1 Corinthians 15:58 ; et Ephesians 4:32 ; Ephesians 5:1 ; Ephesians 5:7 ; Ephesians 5:17 , &c. Itaque si Paulus imperare hoc loco quicquam voluisset, scripturus potius erat κ . γίνεσθε ἐν αὐτῷ πεπληρ .’ Wolf. What follows, shews them that He their perfection, is not to be mixed up with other dignities, as objects of adoration, for He is the Head of all such)  who (or,  which : but the neuter seems to have been written to agree with πλήρωμα )  is the Head of every government and power :