 20 .]  Warning against asceticism .  If ye died (in your baptism, as detailed above, Col 2:11 if.)  with Christ from (a pregnant construction: ‘died, and so were set free from:’ not found elsewhere in N. T.: cf. Romans 6:2 ; Galatians 2:19 , where we have the dative)  the elements (cf. Colossians 2:8 ; the rudimentary lessons, i.e. ritualistic observances)  of the world (see on Colossians 2:8 ; Christ Himself was set free from these, when, being made under the law, He at His Death bore the curse of the law, and thus it was antiquated in Him),  why, as  living (emphatic, as though you had  not died , see Gal 6:14 )  in the world, are ye being prescribed to (the active use of the verb, ‘  to decree ,’ is common in the later classics, and occurs in the LXX, and Apocrypha. The  person to whom the thing is decreed or prescribed is put in the  dative ( 2Ma 10:8 ), so that, according to usage, such person may become the  subject of the  passive verb: cf. Thuc. i. 82, ἡμεῖς ὑπ ʼ Ἀθηναίων ἐπιβουλευόμεθα ( ἐπιβουλεύειν τινί ), Herod. vii. 144, αἱ δὲ νῆες … οὐκ ἐχρήσθησαν ( χρῆσθαί τινι ), and see Kühner, Gram. ii. p. 35. Some, as Bernhardy, p. 346, and Ellicott, prefer considering this form as  middle , and give it the sense of “doceri vos sinitis.” It seems to be of very little consequence which we call it; the meaning in either case is almost identical: “why is the fact so?” or, “why do you allow it?” To my mind, the passive here carries more keen, because more hidden, rebuke. The ἀδικεῖσθε and ἀποστέρεσθε of 1Co 6:7 rest on somewhat different ground. There, the voluntary element comes into emphasis, and the  middle sense is preferable. See note there. I cannot see, with Meyer, why we should be so anxious to divest the sentence of all appearance of blaming the Colossians, and cast all its blame on the false teachers. The passive (see above) would demand a reason for the fact being so ‘Cur ita siti estis, ut …,’ which is just as much a reproach as the middle ‘Cur, sinitis, ut …’ The  active renderings, ‘  decreta facitis ,’ Melancth. (in Eadie), ‘  decernitis ,’ Ambrst. (ib.), are wrong both in grammar and in fact. The reference to δόγμασιν Col 2:14 is plain. They were being again put under that χειρόγρ . which was wiped out and taken away)  “Handle not, neither taste, nor even touch” (it will be understood that these words follow immediately upon δογματίζεσθε without a stop, as τὰ δογματιζόμενα ; just as the inf. in 2Ma 10:8 . Then as to the meaning, I agree with Calv., Beza, Beng., and Meyer in referring all the three to  meats , on account mainly of Colossians 2:22-23 (see below), but also of γεύσῃ coming as a defining term between the two less precise ones ἅψῃ and θίγῃς . Others have referred the three to different objects ἅψῃ and θίγῃς variously to meats, or unclean objects, or women: γεύσῃ universally to meats. Mey. remarks of the negatives, the relation of the three prohibitions is, that the first μηδέ is ‘  nec ,’ the second ‘  ne … quidem .’ This would not be necessary from the form of the sentence, but seems supported by the word θίγῃς introducing a climax. Wetst. and the Commentators illustrate ἅψῃ and θίγῃς as applied to meats, by Xen. Cyr. i. 3. 5, ὅταν μὲν τοῦ ἄρτου ἅψῃ , ( ὁρῶ ) εἰς οὐδὲν τὴν χεῖρα ἀποψώμενον , ὅταν δὲ τούτων τινὸς θίγῃς , εὐθὺς ἀποκαθαίρῃ τὴν χεῖρα εἰς τὰ χειρόμακτρα )  which things (viz. the things forbidden)  are set (  ἐστιν emphatic, ‘whose very nature is …’)  all of them for destruction (by corruption, see reff.)  in their consumption (i.e. are appointed by the Creator to be decomposed and obliterated with their consumption by us. So Thdrt. πῶς … νομίζετέ τινα μὲν τῶν ἐδεσμάτων ἔννομα , τινὰ δὲ παράνομα , κ . οὐ σκοπεῖτε ὡς μόνιμον τούτων οὐδέν ; εἰς κόπρον γὰρ ἅπαντα μεταβάλλεται : and similarly Œc. φθορᾷ γάρ , φησιν , ὑπόκειται ἐν τῷ ἀφεδρῶνι Thl., Erasm., Luth., Beza, Calv., Grot., Wolf, Olsh., Mey., al. The argument in fact is similar to that in Matthew 15:17 , and 1 Corinthians 6:13 .
	Two other lines of interpretation have been followed: 1) that which carries the sense on from the three verbs, “  Handle not, &c. things which tend to (moral) corruption in their use .” De W., Baum.-Crus., al. But this suits neither the collocation of the words, nor ἀποχρήσει , the ‘  using up ,’ ‘  consumption ,’ which should thus rather be χρήσει . 2) that which makes ἅ refer to δόγματα , and renders ‘  which δόγματα  all tend to (  everlasting )  destruction in their observance ;’ but this is just as much against the sense of ἀπόχρησις , and would rather require τήρησις , if indeed τῇ ἀποχρήσει be not superfluous altogether. See these same objections urged at greater length in Meyer’s note)  according to (connects with δογματίζεσθε Μὴ … θίγῃς : the subsequent clause being a parenthetical remark; thus defining the general term δόγματα to consist in human, not divine commands)  the commands and systems ( διδασκαλία is the wider term comprising many ἐντάλματα . In reff., the wider term is prefixed: here, where examples of separate ἐντάλματα have been given, we rise from them to the system of doctrine of which they are a part)  of men (not merely ἀνθρώπων , bringing out the individual authors of them, but τῶν ἀν . describing them generically as  human , not divine. This I would press as against Ellic., who views the τῶν as the art. of correlation, rendered necessary by τὰ ἐντάλματα . But even if this usage were to be strictly pressed with such a word as ἀνθρώπων , the substantive nearest to it, διδασκαλίας , has no article),  such as ( ἅτινα brings us from the general objective, human doctrines and systems, to the specific subjective, the particular sort of doctrines and systems which they were following: q. d., ‘and that, such sort of ἐντ . κ . διδασκ . as …’)  are possessed of ( ἐστὶν ἔχοντα does not exactly = ἔχει , but betokens more the abiding attribute of these δόγματα ‘enjoy,’ as we say)  a reputation ( λόγον ἔχειν occurs in various meanings. Absolutely, it may signify ‘  avoir raison ,’ as Demosth. adv. Lept. p. 461, ἔστι δὲ τοῦτο οὕτωσι μὲν ἀκοῦσαι λόγον τινὰ ἔχον , which meaning is obviously out of place here: as is also ‘  to take account of ,’ Herod. i. 62, Ἀθηναῖοι δὲ οἱ ἐκ τοῦ ἄστεος , ἕως … λόγον οὐδένα εἶχον . But the meaning ‘  to have the repute of ,’ found Herod. v. 66, Κλεισθένης … ὅσπερ δὴ λόγον ἔχει τὴν Πυθίην ἀναπεῖσαι (‘is said to have influenced the Pythia’), and Plato, Epinomis, p. 987 b, ὁ μὲν γὰρ ἑωσφόρος ἕσπερός τε ὢν αὑτὸς Ἀφροδίτης εἶναι σχεδὸν ἔχει λόγον (‘Veneris esse dicitur,’ as Ficinus), manifestly fits the context here, and is adopted by most Commentators)  indeed (the μέν solitarium leaves the δέ to be supplied by the reader, or gathered from what follows. It is implied by it, not by the mere phrase λόγον ἔχειν (see the examples above), that they had the repute only without the reality)  of wisdom in (element of its repute)  voluntary worship (words of this form are not uncommon: so we have ἐθελοπρόξενος , a volunteer or self-constituted proxenus, in Thuc. iii. 70 ἐθελοκωφἑω , to pretend to be deaf, Strabo i. p. 36, ἐθελοδουλεία , voluntary slavery, Plato Symp., p. 184 c, &c. &c. see Lexx., and Aug., Ep. 149 (59, cited above on Col 2:17 ), says ‘sic et vulgo dicitur qui divitem affectat thelodives, et qui sapientem thelosapiens, et cætera hujusmodi.’ Mey. cites Epiphan. Hær.xvi. p.34, explaining the name Pharisees, διὰ τὸ ἀφωρισμένους εἶναι αὐτοὺς ἀπὸ τῶν ἄλλων διὰ τὴν ἐθελοπερισσοθρησκείαν παρ ʼ αὐτῶν νενομισμένην . See many more examples in Wetst. The θρ . was mainly that of  angels , see above, Colossians 2:18 ; but the generality of the expression here may take in other voluntary extravagancies of worship also)  and humility (see Col 2:18 )  and unsparingness of the body (Plato defines ἐλευθερία , ἀφειδία ἐν χρήσει κ . ἐν κτήσει οὐσίας , Def. p. 412 D: Thuc. ii. 43 has ἀφειδεῖν βίου : Diod. Sic. xiii. 60, ἀφειδῶς ἐχρῶντο τοῖς ἰδίοις σώμασιν εἰς τὴν κοινὴν σωτηρίαν , &c. &c., see Wetst.),  not in any honour of it (on the interpretations, see below.  τιμή is used by St. Paul of honour or respect bestowed on the body, in 1 Corinthians 12:23-24 ; of honourable conduct in matters relating to the body, 1 Thessalonians 4:4 (see note there: cf. also Rom 1:24 ): and such is the meaning I would assign to it here these δόγματα have the repute of wisdom for (in) &c., and for (in) unsparingness of the body, not in any real honour done to it its true honour being dedication to the Lord, 1Co 6:13 ),  to the satiating of the flesh? I connect these words not with the preceding clause, but with δογματίζεσθε above ‘  why are ye suffering yourselves (see on the passive above)  to be thus dogmatized (in the strain μὴ ἅψῃ &c. according to &c., which are &c.),  and all for the satisfaction of the flesh ’ for the following out of a διδασκαλία , the ground of which is the φυσιοῦσθαι ὑπὸ τοῦ νοὸς τῆς σαρκός , Col 2:18 ? then after this follow most naturally the exhortations of the next chapter; they are not to seek the πλησμονὴ τῆς σαρκός not τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς φρονεῖν , but νεκρῶσαι τὰ μέλη τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς . The ordinary interpretation of this difficult passage has been, as E. V. ‘  not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh ,’ meaning thereby, that such commands do not provide for the honour which we owe to the body in the supply of the proper refreshment to the flesh. But two great objections lie against this, and are in my judgment fatal to the interpretation in every shape: 1) that ἡ σάρξ cannot be used in this indifferent sense as equivalent to τὸ σῶμα , in a sentence where it occurs together with τὸ σῶμα , and where it has before occurred in an ethical sense: 2) that πλησμονή will not bear this meaning of mere ordinary supplying, ‘satisfying the wants of:’ but must imply satiety, ‘satisfying to repletion.’ The children of Israel were to eat the quails εἰς πλησμονήν , Exodus 16:8 ; cf. also Deuteronomy 33:23 ; Lamentations 5:6 ; Habakkuk 2:16 ; also διὰ τὰς ἀλόγους οἰνοφλυγίας κ . πλησμονάς , Polyb. ii. 19. 4.
	Meyer renders ‘  these commands have a repute for wisdom , &c.,  not for any thing which is really honourable (i.e. which may prove that repute to be grounded in truth),  but in order thereby to the satiation of men’s sensual nature :’ and so, nearly, Ellicott. The objections to this are, 1) the strained meaning of τιμή τις , 2) the insertion of ‘  but ’ before πρός , or as in Ellic. ‘  only ’ after it, both which are wholly gratuitous. This same latter objection applies to the rendering of Beza, al., ‘nec tamen ullius sunt pretii,  quum ad ea spectant quibus farcitur caro,’ besides that this latter paraphrase is unwarranted. See other renderings still further off the point in Mey. and De W. Among these I fear must be reckoned that of Conyb., ‘are of no value to check (?) the indulgence of fleshly passions,’ and that of Bähr and Eadie, regarding λόγον τινι as participial, and joining ἐστιν with πρός a harshness of construction wholly unexampled and improbable. The interpretation above given seems to me, after long consideration, the simplest, and most in accord with the context. It is no objection to it that the antithesis presented by οὐκ ἐν τιμῇ τινι is thus not to ἐν ἐθελοθρ . κ . τ . λ ., but merely to ἀφειδίᾳ σώματος : for if the Apostle wished to bring out a negative antithesis to these last words only, he hardly could do so without repeating the preposition, the sense of which is carried on to ἀφειδίᾳ .