 18 .]  Let no one of purpose (such is by far the best rendering of θέλων , to take it with καταβραβ . and understand it precisely as in ref. 2 Pet. And thus apparently Thl.: θέλουσιν ὑμᾶς καταβραβεύειν διὰ ταπεινοφροσ . Mey. pronounces this meaning ‘ganz unpassend, and controverts the passages brought to defend it;  omitting however ref. 2 Pet. So also does Ellicott, believing it to “impute to the false teachers a frightful and indeed suicidal malice, which is neither justified by the context, nor in any way credible.” But his own “  desiring to do it ” is hardly distinguishable from that other: nor does it at all escape the imputation of motive which he finds so improbable. But surely it is altogether relevant, imputing to the false teachers not only error, but insidious designs also. Others take θέλων with ἐν ταπ ., keeping however its reference as above, and understanding, as Phot. in Œc., τοῦτο ποιεῖν after it. So Thdrt., τοῦτο τοίνυν συνεβούλευον ἐκεῖνοι γίνεσθαι ταπεινοφροσύνῃ δῆθεν κεχρημένοι , Calv., ‘volens id facere,’ Mey., Eadie, al. This latter, after Bengel, assigns as his reason for adopting this view, that the participles θέλων , ἐμβατεύων , φνσιούμενος , κρατῶν , form a series. This however is not strictly true for θέλων would stand in a position of emphasis which does not belong to the next two: rather should we thus expect ἐν ταπ . θέλων κ . θρ . τῶν ἀγγ . I cannot help thinking this rendering flat and spiritless.
	Others again suppose a harsh Hebraism, common in the LXX (reff., especially Psa 146:10 ), but not found in the N. T., by which θέλειν ἐν is put for חָפֵץ בְּ , ‘to have pleasure in.’ So Aug., Est., Olsh., al. The principal objection to this rendering here is, that it would be irrelevant. Not the delight which the false teacher takes in his ταπ . &c., but the fact of it as operative on the Colossians, and its fleshly sources, are adduced)  defraud you of your prize (see reff. Demosth. Mey. points out the difference between  κατα βρ ., a  fraudulent adjudication with hostile intent against the person wronged, and  παρα βραβεύειν , which is merely, as Thdrt. explains this, ἀδίκως βραβεύειν . So Polyb. xxiv. 1. 12, τινὲς  δ  ʼ ἐγκαλοῦντες τοῖς κρίμασιν , ὡς παραβεβραβευμένοις , διαφθείραντος τοῦ Φιλίππου τοὺς δικαστάς . Supplying this, which Chrys. has not marked, we may take his explanation: καταβραβευθῆναι γάρ ἐστιν ὅταν παρ ʼ ἑτέρων μὲν ἡ νίκη , παρ ʼ ἑτέρων δὲ τὸ βραβεῖον . Zonaras gives it better, in Suicer ii. 49:  καταβρ . ἐστι , τὸ μὴ τὸν νικήσαντα ἀξιοῦν τοῦ βραβείου , ἀλλ ʼ ἑτέρῳ διδόναι αὐτό , ἀδικουμένου τοῦ νικήσαντος . This deprivation of their prize, and this wrong, they would suffer at the hands of those who would draw them away from Christ the giver of the prize (2 Timothy 4:8 . James 1:12 . 1Pe 5:4 ), and lower them to the worship of intermediate spiritual beings. The various meanings, ‘ne quis brabeutæ potestatem usurpans atque adeo abutens, vos currentes moderetur, perperamque præscribat quid sequi quid fugere debeatis præmium accepturi’ (Beng.), ‘nemo adversum vos rectoris partes sibi ultro sumat’ (Beza and similarly Corn.-a-lap.), ‘præmium, id est libertatem a Christo indultam, exigere’ (Grot.), are all more or less departures from the meaning of the word)  in (as the element and sphere of his καταβραβ .)  humility ( αἵρεσις ἦν παλαιὰ λεγόντων τινῶν ὅτι οὐ δεῖ τὸν χριστὸν ἐπικαλεῖσθαι εἰς βοήθειαν , ἢ εἰς προσαγωγὴν τὴν πρὸς τὸν θεόν , ἀλλὰ τοὺς ἀγγέλους ὡς τάχα τοῦ τὸν χριστὸν ἐπικαλεῖσθαι πρὸς τὰ εἰρημένα μείζονος ὄντος τῆς ἡμετέρας ἀξίας . τοῦτο δὲ τάχα ταπεινούμενοι ἕλεγον . Zonaras in canon 35 of the Council of Laodicea, in Suicer i. p. 45. Similarly Thdrt., λέγοντες ὡς ἀόρατος ὁ τῶν ὅλων θεός , ἀνεφικτός τε κ . ἀκατάληπτος , κ . προσήκει διὰ τῶν ἀγγέλων τὴν θείαν εὐμένειαν πραγματεύεσθαι . Aug. Conf. x. 42, vol. i. p. 807, says: “Quem invenirem, qui me reconciliaret tibi? abeundum mihi fuit ad angelos?… multi conantes ad te redire, neque per se ipsos valentes, sicut audio, tentaverunt hæc, et inciderunt in desiderium curiosarum visionum, et digni habiti sunt illusionibus.” So that no ironical sense need be supposed)  and (explicative, or appending a specific form of the general ταπεινοφρ .)  worship of the angels (genitive objective, ‘  worship paid to the holy angels :’ not subjective, as Schöttg., Luther, Rosenm., al.: cf. Jos. Antt. viii. 8. 4, τοῦ ναοῦ κ . τῆς θρησκείας τῆς ἐν αὐτῷ τοῦ θεοῦ ; Justin M. cohort. ad Græc. § 38, p. 35, ἐπὶ τὴν τῶν μὴ θεῶν ἐτράπησαν θρησκείαν .
	With reference to the fact of the existence of such teaching at Colossæ, Thdrt. gives an interesting notice: οἱ τῷ νόμῳ συνηγοροῦντες καὶ τοὺς ἀγγέλους σέβειν αὐτοῖς εἰσηγοῦντο , διὰ τούτων λέγοντες δεδόσθαι τὸν νόμον . ἔμεινε δὲ τοῦτο τὸ πάθος ἐν τῇ Φρυγίᾳ κ . Πισιδίᾳ μέχρι πολλοῦ . οὗ δὴ χάριν κ . συνελθοῦσα σύνοδος ἐν Λαοδικείᾳ τῆς Φρυγίας νόμῳ κεκώλυκε τὸ τοῖς ἀγγέλοις προσεύχεσθαι · κ . μέχρι δὲ τοῦ νῦν εὐκτηρία τοῦ ἁγίου Μιχαὴλ παρ ʼ ἐκείνοις κ . τοῖς ὁμόροις ἐκείνων ἐστὶν ἰδεῖν . The canon of the council of Laodicea (A.D. 360) runs thus: οὐ δεῖ χριστιανοὺς ἐγκαταλείπειν τὴν ἐκκλησίαν τοῦ θεοῦ , κ . ἀπιέναι , κ . ἀγγέλους ὀνομάζειν , κ . συνάξεις ποιεῖν , ἅπερ ἀπηγόρευται . εἴ τις οὖν εὑρεθῇ ταύτῃ τῇ κεκρυμμἐνῃ εἰδωλολατρείᾳ σχολάζων , ἔστω ἀνάθεμα , ὅτι ἐγκατέλιπε τὸν κύρ . ἡμ . Ἰ . χρ . τ . υἱ . τοῦ θεοῦ , κ . εἰδωλολατρείᾳ προσῆλθε . See, for an account of subsequent legends and visions of the neighbourhood, Conyb. and Hows., ii. p. 480, note, edn. 2),  standing on the things which he hath seen (an inhabitant of,  insistens on, the realm of sight, not of faith: as Aug. above, ‘incidens in desiderium curiosarum visionum.’ First a word respecting the reading. The μή of the rec. and οὐκ of others, seem to me to have been unfortunate insertions from misunderstanding the sense of ἐμβατεύων . That it  may mean ‘prying into,’ would be evident from the simplest metaphorical application of its primary meaning of treading or entering on: but whether it  does so mean here, must be determined by the context. And it surely would be a strange and incongruous expression for one who was advocating a religion of  faith , whose very charter is μακάριοι οἱ μὴ ἰδόντες κ . πεπιστευκότες , to blame a man or a teacher for ἃ  μὴ ἑόρακεν ἐμβατεύειν , placing the  defect of sight in the very emphatic forefront of the charge against him. Far rather should we expect that one who διὰ πίστεως περιεπάτει , οὐ διὰ εἴδους , would state of such teacher as one of his especial faults, that he ἃ ἑόρακεν ἐνεβάτευεν , found his status, his standing-point, in the realm of sight. And to this what follows corresponds. This insisting on his own visual experience is the result of fleshly pride as contrasted with the spiritual mind. Of the other meanings of ἐμβατεύειν , that of ‘coming into possession of property,’ ‘inheriting,’ might be suitable, but in this sense it is usually constructed with εἰς , cf. Demosth. 1085. 24, 1086. 19. The ordinary meaning is far the best here: see reff., and cf. Æsch. Pers. 448 νῆσος … ἣν ὁ φιλόχορος Πἀν ἐμβατεύει , Eur. Electr. 595 κασίγνητον ἐμβατεῦσαι πόλιν (this view I still maintain as against Ellicott)),  vainly (groundlessly. εἰκῆ must not be joined with ἐμβατ ., as De W., Conyb., al., for thus the emphasis of that clause is destroyed: see above)  puffed up (no inconsistency with the ταπεινοφρ . above: for as Thdrt. says, τὴν μὲν ἐσκήπτοντο , τοῦ δὲ τύφου τὸ πάθος ἀκριβῶς περιέκειντο )  by (as the working principle in him)  the mind (intent, bent of thought and apprehension)  of his own flesh ( ὑπὸ σαρκικῆς διανοίας , οὐ πνευματικῆς , Chrys. But as usual, this adjectival rendering misses the point of the expression, the διάνοια is not only σαρκική , but is τῆς σαρκός the σάρξ , the ordinary sensuous principle, is the fons of the νοῦς which therefore dwells in the region of visions of the man’s own seeing, and does not in true humility hold the Head and in faith receive grace as one of His members. I have marked αὐτοῦ rather more strongly than by ‘  his ’ only: its expression conveys certainly some idea of self-will. On the psychological propriety of the expression, see Ellicott’s note),