 13 15 .]  Application, first to the (Gentile) Colossians, then to all believers, of the whole blessedness of this participation in Christ’s resurrection, and assertion of the antiquation of the law, and subjection of all secondary powers to Christ .  And you, who were (or perhaps more strictly,  when you were )  dead (allusion to ἐκ [ τῶν ] νεκρῶν immediately preceding)  in your trespasses (see Ephesians 2:1 , notes)  and (  in )  the uncircumcision of (i.e. which consisted in: this is better than, with Ellic., to regard the gen. as simply possessive)  your flesh (i.e. having on you still your fleshly sinful nature, the carnal præputium which now, as spiritual, you have put away. So that, as Mey. very properly urges, it is not in ἀκροβυστία , but in τῆς σαρκός , that the ethical significance lies ἀκροβυστία being their state still, but now indifferent),  He (God who, not Christ, is the subject of the whole sentence, Colossians 2:13-15 . See the other side ingeniously, but to me not convincingly defended in Ellic.’s note here. He has to resort to the somewhat lame expedient of altering αὐτῷ into αὑτῷ : and even then the sentence would labour under the theological indecorum of making our Lord not the Resumer of His own Life merely, but the very Worker of acts which are by Himself and His Apostles always predicated of the Father. It will be seen by the whole translation and exegesis which follows, that I cannot for a moment accept the view which makes Christ the subject of these clauses)  quickened you (this repetition of the personal pronoun is by no means unexampled, cf. Aristoph. Acharn. 391, νῦν οὖν με πρῶτον πρὶν λέγειν ἐάσατε | ἐνσκευάσασθαί μ ʼ οἷον ἀθλιώτατον : see also Soph. Œd. Col. 1407: Demosth. p. 1225. 16 19. Bernhardy, p. 275 f.)  together with Him (Christ: brought you up, objectively at His Resurrection, and subjectively when you were received among His people, out of this death. The question as to the reference, whether to spiritual or physical resurrection, is answered by remembering that the former includes the latter),  having forgiven (the aorist participle (which aor. ‘  having forgiven ’ is in English, we having but one past active participle) is here not contemporaneous with συνεζωοπ . but antecedent: this forgiveness was an act of God wrought once for all in Christ, cf. ἡμῖν below, and 2 Corinthians 5:19 ; Eph 4:32 )  us (he here passes from the particular to the general from the Colossian Gentiles to all believers)  all our transgressions ( ἃ τὴν νεκρότητα ἐποίει , Chrys.: but this, though true, makes the χαρισάμ . apply to the συνεζ ., which it does not),  having wiped out (contemporary with χαρισάμενος in fact the same act explained in its conditions and details. On the word, see reff., and Plato, Rep. vi. p. 501, τὸ μὲν ἄν , οἶμαι , ἐξαλείφοιεν , τὸ δὲ πάλιν ἐγγράφοιεν : Dem. 468. 1, εἶθ ʼ ὑμεῖς ἔτι σκοπεῖτε εἰ χρὴ τοῦτον ( τὸν νόμον ) ἐξαλεῖψαι , καὶ οὐ πάλαι βεβούλευσθε ;)  the handwriting in decrees (cf. the similar expression τὸν νόμον τῶν ἐντολῶν ἐν δόγμασιν , Ephesians 2:15 , and notes. Here, the force of - γραφον passes on to the dative, as if it were τὸ γεγραμμένον τοῖς δόγμασιν cf. Plato, Ep. vii. p. 343 a, κ . ταῦτα εἰς ἀμετακίνητον , ὃ δὴ πάσχει τὰ γεγραμμένα τύποις . This explanation of the construction is negatived by Ellicott, on the ground of χειρόγραφος being “a synthetic compound, and apparently incapable of such a decomposition:” referring to Donaldson, Gram. § 369 (it is § 377). But there it is laid down that in synthetic compounds of this kind, the accent makes the difference between transitive and intransitive, without any assertion that the verbal element may not pass on in the construction. If χειρόγραφον means written by hands, then surely the element in which the writing consists may follow. Meyer would make the dative instrumental: but it can be so only in a very modified sense, the contents taken as the instrument whereby the sense is conveyed. The  χειρόγρ  . represents the  whole law , the obligatory bond which was against us (see below), and is apparently used because the Decalogue, representing that law, was written on tables of stone with the finger of God. The most various interpretations of it have been given. Calv., Beza, al., understand it of the mere  ritual law : Calov., of the  moral , against  πάντα τὰ παραπτ . above: Luther, Zwingl., al., of the  law of conscience . Thdrt.’s view is very curious: he interprets τὸ χειρόγρ . to mean our human body, ὁ τοίνυν θεὸς λόγος , τὴν ἡμετέραν φύσιν ἀναλαβών , πάσης αὐτὴν ἁμαρτίας ἐλευθέραν ἐφύλαξε , κ . ἐξήλειψε τὰ κακῶς ὑφ ʼ ἡμῶν ἐν αὐτῇ γενόμενα τῶν ὀφλημάτων γράμματα . He urges as an objection to the usual interpretation, that the law was for Jews, not Gentiles, whereas the Apostle says καθ ʼ ἡμῶν . But this is answered by remembering, that the law was just as much against the Gentiles as against the Jews: it stood in their way of approach to God, see Romans 3:19 ; through it they would be compelled to come to Him, and by it, whether written on stone or on fleshy tablets, they were condemned before Him. Chrys., Œc., Thl., al., would understand τὸ χειρόγραφον ὃ ἐποίησε πρὸς Ἀδὰμ ὁ θεὸς εἰπὼν ᾗ ἂν ἡμέρα ̣ φάγῃς ἀπὸ τοῦ ξύλου , ἀποθάνῃ but this is against the whole anti-judaistic turn of the sentence)  which was hostile to us (the repetition of the sentiment already contained in καθ ʼ ἡμῶν seems to be made by way of stronger emphasis, as against the false teachers, reasserting and invigorating the fact that the law was no help, but a hindrance to us. There does not appear to be any force of ‘  sub contrarius’ in ὑπεναντίος ; Mey. refers, besides reff., to Herod. iii. 80, τὸ δ ʼ ὑπεναντίον τούτου εἰς τοὺς πολιήτας πέφυκε to ὑπεναντιότης , Diog. Laert. x. 77: ὑπεναντιότης , Aristot. poet. xxvi. 22 ὑπεναντίωσις , Demosth. 1405. 18),  and (not only so, but)  has taken it (the handwriting  itself , thus obliterated)  away (i.e. ‘from out of the way,’ cf. reff.: Dem. de corona, p. 323, τὸ καταψεύδεσθαι κ . δι ʼ ἔχθραν τι λέγειν ἀνελόντας ἐκ μέσου : other places in Kypke, ii. 323: and the contrary expression, Dem. 682. 1, οὐδὲν ἂν ἦν ἐν μέσῳ πολεμεῖν ἡμὰς πρὸς Καρδιανοὺς ἤδη ),  by nailing (contemporary with the beginning of ἦρκεν )  it to the cross (“since by the death of Christ on the cross the condemnatory law lost its hold on us, inasmuch as Christ by this death bore the curse of the law for mankind ( Gal 3:13 ), in the fact of  Christ being nailed to the Cross  the Law was nailed thereon, in so far as, by Christ’s crucifixion, it lost its obligatory power and ceased to be ἐν μέσῳ .” Meyer. Chrys. finely says, οὐδαμοῦ οὕτως μεγαλοφώνως ἐφθέγξατο . δρᾷς σπουδὴν τοῦ ἀφανισθῆναι τὸ χειρ . ὅσην ἐποιήσατο ; οἷον πάντες ἦμεν ὑφ ʼ ἁμαρτίαν κ . κόλασιν , αὐτὸς κολασθεὶς ἔλυσε κ . τὴν ἁμαρτίν κ . τὴν κόλασιν · ἐκολάσθη δὲ ἐν τῷ σταυρῷ ).