 8 .]  Take heed lest there shall be (the future indicative expresses strong fear lest that which is feared should really be the case; so Aristoph. Eccles. 487, περισκοπουμένη κἀκεῖσε καὶ τἀκ δεξιᾶς , μὴ ξυμφορὰ γενήσεται τὸ πρᾶγμα . Hartung, ii. 138: see reff. and Winer, § 56. 2. b  a )  any one Who (cf. τινὲς οἱ ταράσσοντες , ref. Gal. and note. It points at some known person)  leads you away as his prey (Mey. connects the word in imagery with the foregoing περιπατεῖτε but this perhaps is hardly necessary after the disregard to continuity of metaphor shewn in Colossians 2:6-7 . The meaning ‘to rob’ (so with τὸν οἶκον , Aristæn. ii. 22), adopted here by Thdrt. ( τοὺς ἀποσυλᾷν τ . πίστιν ἐπιχειροῦντας ), ‘to  undermine ,’ Chrys. ( ὥσπερ ἄν τις χῶμα κάτωθεν διορύττων μὴ παρέχῃ αἴσθησιν , τὸ δ ʼ ὑπονοστεῖ ), hardly appears suitable on account of the κατὰ … κατά , which seem to imply motion. We have (see Rost and Palm’s Lex.) συλαγωγεῖν παρθένον in Heliod. and Nicet., which idea of  abduction is very near that here)  by means of his (or the article may signify, as Ellic., the current, popular, philosophy of the day: but I prefer the possessive meaning: see below)  philosophy and empty deceit (the absence of the article before κενῆς shews the καί to be epexegetical, and the same thing to be meant by the two. This being so, it may be better to give the τῆς the possessive sense, the better to mark that it is not all philosophy which the Apostle is here blaming: for Thdrt. is certainly wrong in saying ἣν ἄνω πιθανολογίαν , ἐνταῦθα φιλοσοφίαν ἐκάλεσε , the former being, as Mey. observes, the form of imparting, this, the thing itself. The φιλοσοφ . is not necessarily  Greek , as Tert. de præscr. 7, vol. ii. p. 20 (‘fuerat Athenis’) Clem. Strom, i. 11, 50, vol. i. p. 346, P. ( οὐ πᾶσαν , ἀλλὰ τὴν Ἐπικούρειον ), Grot. al. As De W. observes, Josephus calls the doctrine of the Jewish sects philosophy: Antt. xviii. 2. 1, Ἰουδαίοις φιλοσοφίαι τρεῖς ἦσαν , ἥ τε τῶν Ἐσσηνῶν κ . ἡ τῶν Σαδδουκαίων , τρίτην δὲ ἐφιλοσόφουν οἱ Φαρισαῖοι . The character of the philosophy here meant, as gathered from the descriptions which follow, was that mixture of Jewish and Oriental, which afterwards expanded into gnosticism),  according to the tradition of men (this tradition, derived from men, human and not divine in its character, set the rule to this his philosophy, and according to this he ἐσυλαγώγει : such is the  grammatical construction; but seeing that his philosophy was the instrument by which, the character given belongs in fact to his philosophy),  according to the elements (see on Galatians 4:3 ; the rudimentary lessons: i.e. the ritualistic observances (‘nam continuo post exempli loco speciem unam adducit, circumcisionem scilicet,’ Calv.) in which they were becoming entangled)  of the world (all these belonged to the earthly side were the carnal and imperfect phase of knowledge now the perfect was come, the imperfect was done away),  and not (negative characteristic, as the former were the affirmative characteristics, of this philosophy)  according to Christ (“who alone is,” as Bisp. observes, “the true rule of all genuine philosophy, the only measure as for all life acceptable to God, so for all truth in thought likewise: every true philosophy must therefore be κατὰ χριστόν , must begin and end with Him”):