 11 .] (nor do you need the rite of circumcision to make you complete, for you have already received in Him the spiritual  substance , of which that rite is but the shadow)  in whom ye also were circumcised (not as E. V. ‘  are circumcised,’ the reference being to the historical fact of their baptism)  with a circumcision not wrought by hands (see Ephesians 2:11 , and Romans 2:29 . The same reference to spiritual (ethical) circumcision is found in Deuteronomy 10:16 ; Deuteronomy 30:6 ; Ezekiel 44:7 ; Act 7:51 ),  in (consisting in which found its realization in)  your putting off (= when you threw off:  ἀπεκδ  . , the putting off and laying aside, as a garment: an allusion to actual circumcision, see below)  of the body of the flesh (i.e. as ch. Colossians 1:22 , the body of which the material was flesh: but more here: so also its designating attribute, its leading principle, was fleshliness the domination of the flesh which is a σὰρξ ἁμαρτίας , Romans 8:3 . This body is put off in baptism, the sign and seal of the new life. “When ethically circumcised, i.e. translated by μετάνοια out of the state of sin into that of the Christian life of faith, we have no more the σῶμα τῆς σαρκός : for the body, which we bear, is disarrayed of its sinful σάρξ  as such , quoad its sinful quality: we are no more ἐν τῇ σαρκί as before, when lust ἐνηργεῖτο ἐν τοῖς μέλεσιν (Romans 7:5 , cf. ib. Rom 2:23 ): we are no more σάρκινοι , πεπραμένοι ὑπὸ τήν ἁμαρτίαν ( Rom 7:14 ), and walk no more κατὰ σάρκα , but ἐν καινότητι πνεύματος ( Rom 7:6 ), so that our members are ὅπλα δικαιοσύνης τῷ θεῷ ( Rom 6:13 ). This Christian transformation is set forth in its  ideal conception, irrespective of its imperfect realization in our experience.” Meyer. To understand τὸ σῶμα to signify ‘  the mass ,’ us Calv. (‘corpus appellat massam ex omnibus vitiis conflatam, eleganti metaphora’), Grot. (‘omne quod ex multis componitur solet hoc vocabulo appellari’), al., besides that it is bound up very much with the reading τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν , is out of keeping with N. T. usage, and with the context, which is full of images connected with  the body ),  in (parallel to ἐν before then the circumcision without hands was  explained , now it is again adduced with another epithet bringing it nearer home to them)  the circumcision of Christ (belonging to, brought about by union with, Christ: nearly =, but expresses more than ‘  Christian circumcision ,’ inasmuch as it shews that the root and cause of this circumcision without hands is in Christ, the union with whom is immediately set forth. Two other interpretations are given: 1) that in which Christ is regarded as the  circumciser : ὁ χρ . περιτέμνει ἐν τῷ βαπτίσματι , ἀπεκδύν ἡμᾶς τοῦ παλαιοῦ βίου , Thl., but not exactly so Chrys., who says, οὐκέτι φησὶν ἐν μαχαίρᾳ ἡ περιτ ., ἀλλ ʼ ἐν αὐτῷ τῷ χρ .· οὐ γὰρ χεῖρ ἐπάγει , καθὼς ἐκεῖ , τ . περιτομὴν ταύτην , ἀλλὰ τὸ πνεῦμα . Beza combines both ‘Christus ipse nos intus suo spiritu circumcidit.’ 2) that in which Christ is the  circumcised so Schöttg.: “per circumcisionem Christi nos omnes circumcisi sumus. Hoc est: circumeisio Christi qui se nostri causa sponte legi subjecit, tam efficax fuit in omnes homines, ut nulla amplius circumcisione carnis opus sit, præcipue quum in locum illius baptismus a Christo surrogatus sit” (i. p. 816). The objection to both is, that they introduce irrelevant elements into the context.  The circumcision which Christ works , would not naturally be followed by  συν ταφέντες αὐτῷ ,  union with Him:  that which was wrought on Him might be thus followed, but would not come in naturally in a passage which describes, not the universal efficacy of the rite once for all performed on Him, but the actual undergoing of it in a spiritual sense, by each one of us),