 19 .]  and not (objective negative source of his error)  holding fast (see ref. Cant. The want of firm holding of Christ has set him loose to ἐμβατεύειν ἃ ἑόρακεν )  the Head (Christ: see on Ephesians 1:22 . Each must hold fast the Head for himself, not merely be attached to the other members, however high or eminent in the Body),  from whom (better than with Mey., ‘  from which ,’ viz. the Head, Christ, according to him, being referred to ‘  nicht personlich, sondern sächlich :’ but if so, why not ἐξ ἧς what reason would there be for any change of gender? The only cause for such change must be sought in  personal reference to Christ, as in ref. 1 Tim.; and this view is confirmed by the τ . αὕξησιν τ . θεοῦ below, shewing that the figure and reality are mingled in the sentence. Beng. gives as his first alternative, ‘ex quo, sc. tenendo caput:’ but this would be δι ʼ οὗ , not ἐξ οὗ . The Head itself is the  Source of increase: the holding it, the  means )  all the body (in its every part: not exactly = ‘  the whole body ,’ in its entirety, which would, if accurately expressed, be τὸ πᾶν σῶμα , cf. τὸν πάντα χρόνον , Acts 20:18 , ὁ πᾶς νόμος , Galatians 5:14 . On the whole passage see Ephesians 4:16 , an almost exact parallel)  by means of the joints (see against Meyer’s meaning, ‘  nerves ,’ on Eph. l. c.)  and bands (sinews and nerves which bind together, and communicate between, limb and limb)  being supplied (the passive of the simple verb is found in 3Ma 6:40 , Polyb. iv. 77. 2, πολλαῖς ἀφορμαῖς ἐκ φύσεως κεχορηγημένος πρὸς πραγμάτων κατάκτησιν : ib. iii. 75. 3; vi. 15. 4, al. The ἐπι , denoting continual accession, suits the αὔξει below)  and compounded (see on Eph. Notice, as there, the present participles, denoting that the process is now going on.  Wherewith the body is supplied and compounded, is here left to be inferred, and need not be, as by some Commentators, minutely pursued into detail. It is, as Thl., τὸ ζῆν κ . αὔξειν πνευματικῶς , as Chrys., understanding it however after πᾶν τὸ σῶμα , ἔχει τὸ εἷναι , κ . τὸ καλῶς εἶναι . The supply is as the sap to the vine as the πᾶσα αἴσθησις κ . πᾶσα κίνησις (Thl.) to the body)  increaseth with (accusative of the cognate substantive, see Ellic. and Winer, § 32. 2)  the increase of God (i.e. ‘the increase wrought by God,’ God being the first cause of life to the whole, and carrying on this growth in subordination to and union with the Head, Jesus Christ: not as Chrys., merely = κατὰ θεόν , τὴν ἀπὸ τῆς πολιτείας τῆς ἀρίστης , nor to be tamed down with Calv., al., to “significat, non probari Deo quodvis augmentum, sed quod ad caput dirigitur.” Still less must we adopt the adjectival rendering, ‘godly growth,’ Conyb., making that an  attribute of the growth, which is in reality its  condition of existence ).
	The Roman Catholic Commentators, Corn, -a-lap., Estius, Bisping, endeavour by all kinds of evasions to escape the strong bearing of this passage on their following (and outdoing) of the heretical practices of the Judaizing teachers in this matter of the θρησκεία τῶν ἀγγέλων . The latter (Bisp.) remarks, “It is plain from this passage, as indeed from the nature of things, that the Apostle is not blaming every honouring of the angels, but only such honouring as put them in the place of Christ. The true honouring of the angels and saints is after all in every case an honouring of Christ their Head.” On this I may remark 1) that the word ‘  honouring ’ (  Verehrung ) is simply disingenuous, there being no question of honouring, but of  worship in the strict sense ( θρησκεία ). 2) That whatever a Commentator may say in his study, and Romanists may assert when convenient to them, the honour and worship actually and practically paid by them to angels and saints does by very far exceed that paid to Christ their Head. Throughout Papal Europe, the worship of Christ among the body of the middle and lower orders is fast becoming obliterated, and supplanted by that of His Mother.