 12 .] (goes on to connect this still more closely with the person of Christ q. d., in the circumcision of Christ, to whom you were united, &c.)  buried together (i.e. ‘when you were buried:’ the aorist participle, as so often, is contemporary with the preceding past verb)  with Him in your baptism (the new life being begun at baptism, an image familiar alike to Jews and Christians, the process itself of baptism is regarded as the burial of the former life: originally, perhaps, owing to the practice of immersion, which would most naturally give rise to the idea: but to maintain from such a circumstance that immersion is  necessary in baptism, is surely the merest trifling, and a resuscitation of the very ceremonial spirit which the Apostle here is arguing against. As reasonably might it be argued, from the ἀπέκδυσις here, that nakedness was an essential in that sacrament. The things represented by both figures belong to the essentials of the Christian life: the minor details of the sacrament which corresponded to them, may in different ages or climates be varied; but the spiritual figures remain. At the same time, if circumstances concurred, e.g. a climate where the former practice was always safe, and a part of the world, or time of life, where the latter would be no shock to decency, there can be no question that the external proprieties of baptism ought to be complied with. And on this principle the baptismal services of the Church of England are constructed);  in which (i.e. baptism: not, as Mey. (and so most expositors), ‘  in whom ,’ i.e. Christ. For although it is tempting enough to r, ard the ἐν ᾧ καί as parallel with the ἐν ᾧ καί above, we should be thus introducing a second and separate leading idea into the argument, manifestly occupied with one leading idea, viz. the completeness of your Christian circumcision, cf. ἀκροβυστίᾳ again below, as realized in your baptism: whereas on this hypothesis we should be breaking off from baptism altogether, for there would be no link to connect the present sentence with the former, but we must take up again from ἐξουσίας . This indeed is freely confessed by Mey., who holds that all allusion to baptism  is at an end here, and that the following is a benefit conferred by  faith as separate from baptism. But see below. His objection, that if ἐν ᾧ applied to baptism, it would not correspond to the  rising again , which should be ἐξ οὗ , or at all events the unlocal δι ʼ οὗ , arises from the too precise materialization of the image. As ἐν before did not necessarily apply to the mere going under the water, but to the process of the sacrament, so ἐν now does not necessarily apply to the coming up out of the water, but also to the process of the sacrament.  In it , we both die and rise again, both unclothe and are clothed)  ye were also raised again with Him (not your material, but your spiritual resurrection is in the foreground: it is bound on, it is true, to  His material resurrection, and brings with it in the background,  yours : but in the spiritual, the material is included and taken for granted, as usual in Scripture)  by (means of: the mediate, not the efficient cause: the hand which held on, not the plank that saved. I am quite unable to see why this illustration is, as Ellic. states, “in more than one respect, not dogmatically satisfactory.” Surely it is dogmatically exact to say that Faith is the hand by which we lay hold on Christ the Ark of our refuge)  your faith in (so Chrys., Thdrt., Œc., Thl., Erasm., Beza, Calv., Grot., Est., Corn.-a-lap., Mey., al., Beng. (‘fides est (opus) operationis divinæ’), al., and Luther. De W. understands faith wrought by God (‘  durch den Glauben den Gott wirket ,’ Luth.: ‘  mittelst des Glaubens Kraft der Wirksamkeit Gottes ,’ De W.). But both usage and the context are against this. The genitive after πίστις is ever (against Ellic. here) of the  object of faith, see reff., and on Eph 1:19 )  the operation of God (in Christ that mighty power by which the Father raised Him, cf. Romans 8:11 ; ἣν ἐνήργηκεν ἐν χριστῷ , Eph 1:20 )  who raised Him from the dead ( πιστεύοντες γὰρ τῇ τοῦ θεοῦ δυνάμει προσμένομεν τὴν ἀνάστασιν , ἐνέχυρον ἔχοντες τοῦ δεσπότου χριστοῦ τὴν ἀνάστασιν . Thdrt. But there is very much more asserted than the more προσμένειν τὴν ἀνάστασιν the power of God in raising the dead to life is one and the same in our Lord and in us the physical power exerted in Him is not only a pledge of the same physical power to be exerted in us, but a condition and assurance of a spiritual power already exerted in us, whereby we are in spirit risen with Christ, the physical resurrection being included and taken for granted in that other and greater one):