 1 17 .] THE VISION OF THE WOMAN AND THE GREAT RED DRAGON. On the nature of this vision, as introductory of the whole imagery of the latter part of the Apocalypse, I have already remarked at ch. 11. It is only needful now to add, that the principal details of the present section are rather descriptive than strictly prophetical: relating, just as in the prophets the descriptions of Israel and Judah, to things passed and passing, and serving for the purpose of full identification and of giving completeness to the whole vision.  And a great (important in its meaning, as well as vast in its appearance)  sign (  σημεῖον , one of those appearances by which God  ἐσήμανεν to John the revelations of this book, ch. Rev 1:1 )  was seen in heaven (heaven here is manifestly  not only the show-place of the visions as seen by the Seer, but has a substantial place in the vision: for below, Revelation 12:7 ff., we have the heaven contrasted with the earth, and the dragon cast out of heaven into the earth. See more there),  a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon ( ἡ σελήνη = ἔχουσα τὴν σελήνην )  beneath her feet (see Song of Solomon 6:10 , which seems to be borne in mind),  and on her head a crown of twelve stars (the whole symbolism points to the Church, the bride of God: and of course, from the circumstances afterwards related, the O. T. church, at least at this beginning of the vision. That the blessed Virgin cannot be intended, is plain from the subsequent details, and was recognized by the early expositors. The crown of twelve stars represents the Patriarchs. Victorinus’s comment is worth quoting: “Mulier.… antiqua Ecclesia est patrum et prophetarum et sanctorum apostolorum quæ gemitus et tormenta habuit desiderii sui usque quo fructum ex plebe sua secundum carnem olim promissum sibi videret Christum ex ipsa gente corpus sumpsisse.… Corona stellarum duodecim chorum patrum significat secundum carnem nativitatis, ex quibus erat Christus carnem sumpturus”),  and [  she is ] (or, being)  with child [  and ]  crieth out in pangs and tormented to bring forth (the inf. τεκεῖν , of that which would be the result of the βασανίζεσθαι , has a parallel in Acts 7:19 , ἐκάκωσεν .… τοῦ ποιεῖν , and in other places, see Winer, edn. 6, § 44. 4, but not without the art.).  And another sign was seen in heaven; and behold, a great red dragon (interpreted below, Revelation 12:9 , to be the devil, the ancient serpent: see also Revelation 12:13 ; Revelation 12:15 . He is πυῤῥός perhaps for the combined reasons, of the wasting properties of fire, and the redness of blood: “rufus, ut homicida,” as the gloss, interl.: see Joh 8:44 ),  having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his heads seven diadems (the Dragon being the devil, these symbolic features must be interpreted of the assuming by him of some of those details in the form of the beast in ch. Revelation 13:1 ff., to whom afterwards he gives his power and his throne: in other words, as indicating that he lays wait for the woman’s offspring in the form of that antichristian power which is afterwards represented by the beast. At the same time, the  seven crowned heads may possess an appropriateness of their own, belonging as they do to the dragon alone (the beast has the crowns on his  horns , ch. Rev 13:1 ). They may represent, as he is Prince of this world, universality of earthly dominion. The ten horns belong to the fourth beast of Daniel 7:7 ; Dan 7:20 ).  And his tail draggeth down the third part of the stars of the heaven, and cast them to the earth (so the little horn in Daniel 8:10 , “cast down some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon them.” The allusion here may be as Areth [110] in Catena, συγκατέβαλε γὰρ ἑαυτῇ πλείστων ἀγγέλων μοῖραν συναποστῆσαι πείσασα τοῦ θεοῦ , καὶ πεποίηκε χθονίους τοὺς οὐρανίους , καὶ σκότος τοὺς λαμπροὺς ὡς ἀστέρας . The magnitude and fury of the dragon are graphically given by the fact of its tail, in its lashing backwards and forwards in fury, sweeping down the stars of heaven).  And the dragon stands (not “  stood .” The Commentators cite from Pliny H. N. viii. 3 of the dragon, “Nec flexu multiplici ut reliquæ serpentes corpus impellit, sed celsus et erectus in medio incedens”)  before the woman which is about to bear, that when she has borne he may devour her child (this was what the devil instigated Herod the Great to do, who was the dependant of the Roman Empire. But doubtless the reference is wider than this: even to the whole course of hostility against the Lord during His humiliation: see below).  And she bore a male (if ἄρσεν is neuter, and not to be written ἄρσεν ʼ, the expression is a solœcism, or rather a combination of genders, ἄρσεν going back from the masculine individual υἱὸν to the neuter of the genus)  son, who shall rule (lit. shepherd, i. e. order and guide)  all the nations with (  ἐν of investiture, very nearly expressed by our instrumental “  with ,” which in its primitive meaning does but signify accompaniment)  a rod of iron (these words, cited verbatim from the LXX of the Messianic Psalms 2:0 , and preceded by the ὅς of personal identification, leave no possibility of doubt, who is here intended. The man-child is the Lord Jesus Christ,  and none other . And this result is a most important one for the fixity of reference of the whole prophecy. It forms one of those landmarks by which the legitimacy of various interpretations may be tested; and of which we may say, notwithstanding the contradiction sure to be given to the saying, that every interpretation which oversteps their measure is thereby convicted of error. Again, the exigencies of this passage require that the birth should be understood literally and historically, of that Birth of which all Christians know. And be it observed, that this rule of interpretation is no confident assertion of mine, as has been represented, but a result from the identifying use of words of the prophetic Scripture, spoken of Him, who will not suffer His honour to be given to another):  and her child was caught up to God and to His throne (i. e. after a conflict with the Prince of this world, who came and tried Him but found nothing in Him, the Son of the woman was taken up to heaven and sat on the right hand of God. Words can hardly be plainer than these. It surely is but needful to set against them, thus understood, the interpretation which would regard them as fulfilled by the “mighty issue of the consummated birth of a son of the church, a baptized emperor, to political supremacy in the Roman empire,” “united with the solemn public profession of the divinity of the Son of man.” Elliott, iii. 24).  And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath there a place prepared from (the source of the preparation being His command: see reff., and Winer, edn. 6, § 47, b)  God, that they (the subject to the verb is left indefinite. In Rev 12:14 below, it is simply passive, ὅπου τρέφεται ἐκεῖ )  may nourish her there for a thousand two hundred and sixty days (the whole of this verse is anticipatory: the same incident being repeated with its details and in its own place in the order of the narrative below, Revelation 12:13 ff. See there the comment and interpretation. The fact of its being here inserted by anticipation is very instructive as to that which now next follows, as not being consecutive in time after the flight of the woman, but occurring before it, and in fact referred to now in the prophecy as leading to that pursuit of the woman by the dragon, which, as matter of sequence,  led to it ).
	 [110] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2