 8. ]  But (proceeding with the development of sin by means of the law)  sin (the sinful principle or propensity, but without any conscious personification on the part of the Apostle, see some excellent remarks on personification in Tholuck)  having found occasion ( ἀφορμή , as its derivation shews, means more than mere opportunity, it indicates the furnishing the material and ground of attack, the  wherewith and  whence to attack. The words here are not to be joined, as Luth., Olsh., Meyer, with διὰ τ . ἐντολῆς [which belongs to κατηργάσατο , see below]: for (1) ἀφορμ . λαβεῖν  διὰ would not express  whence the ἀφορμή is taken, as παρά or ἐκ , but only  by what means some ἀφ . is taken from some source, which would not here suit the Apostle’s meaning, seeing that the  source itself was the commandment, and (2) Romans 7:13 , διὰ τοῦ ἀγ . κατεργ ., decides the matter here, but  absolutely , as frequently, see Wetst.)  by means of the commandment (not = τοῦ νόμου , but the  tenth commandment , the prohibition in question)  wrought in me (not ‘  wrought out ,’ ‘brought into action,’ but ‘  originated ’ [using this commandment as its instrument])  all (manner) of coveting; for without the law sin is (not ‘was:’ the omission of the verb substantive shews the sentence to be a  locus communis , and compare ch. Rom 4:15 )  dead (powerless and inactive: compare 1 Corinthians 15:56 , ἡ δύναμις τ . ἁμαρτίας ὁ νόμος ).
	This  deadness of sin without the law must not be understood as meaning that sin was committed but not recognized, the conscience being not informed nor awakened: such a statement would be  true , but would  not touch the matter argued here . Erasmus (Thol.) well explains the νεκρά , ‘Quum ante legem proditam (but see below) quædam peccata nescirem, quædam ita scirem, ut mihi tamen licere putarem, quod vetita non essent, levius ac languidius sollicitabatur animus ad peccandum, ut frigidius amamus ea, quibus ubi libeat potiri fas sit. Cæterum legis indicio proditis tot peccati formis, universa cupiditatum cohors irritata prohibitione cœpit acrius ad peccandum sollicitare.’ Compare also Proverbs 9:17 , and (Wetst.) Ovid. Amor. ii. 19. 3, ‘Quod licet ingratum est, quod non licet acrius urit:’ and ib. iii. 4. 17, ‘Nitimur in vetitum semper, cupimusque negata:’ and Seneca, de Clem. i. 23 (Thol.), ‘Parricidæ cum lege cœperunt, et illis facinus pœna monstravit:’ and a remarkable passage from Cato’s speech in Livy xxxiv. 4, ‘Nolite eodem loco existimare, Quirites, futuram rem, quo fuit, antequam lex de hoc ferretur. Et hominem improbum non accusari tutius est, quam absolvi, et luxuria non mota tolerabilior esset, quam erit nunc, ipsis vinculis, sicut fera bestia, irritata, deinde emissa.’