 7. ]  τί οὖν ἐρ ., see note, ch. Romans 6:1 .
	 ὁ ν  .   ἁμαρτία  ; ]  Is the law (not, as Jowett, ‘  conscience ,’ but in our case, the revealed law of God, which awoke the conscience to action)  sin ? not ‘  the cause of sin ,’ which in one sense the Apostle would not have denied, but  sin , abstract for concrete,  sinful , or, as Bengel, ‘causa peccati peccaminosa.’ ὁ νόμος itself being abstract, that which is predicated of it is abstract also. The contrast is, ὁ νόμος ἅγιος , Romans 7:12 . The question itself refers back to Romans 7:5 , τὰ παθήματα τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν τὰ διὰ τοῦ νόμου . It is asked,  not by an objector , but by the Apostle himself, in anticipation of an objection.
	 ἀλλά ]  Is but here in contrast to ὁ νόμ . ἁμαρτ ., meaning, ‘so far from that,’ or is it a qualification of μὴ γένοιτο , meaning ‘but still it is true, that …?’ Neither explanation exactly suits the context, which is, by a proper elucidation of the law’s working as regards sin, to prove it to be holy. I would rather understand ἀλλά ,  but what I mean is …, I say not that, but … There surely is no  contrast to ὁ νόμ . ἁυαρτία , see Romans 7:8 .
	 οὐκ ἔγνων ] ‘non cognoscebam, ni …,’  I was living in a state of ignorance of sin, were it not … This construction comprehends in it οὐκ ἂν ἔγνων as a consequence, and is therefore often said to be put for it; but it has its propriety, as here, where a historical state is being described, and the unconditional indicative is more appropriate. Tholuck makes it = ‘non cognoveram, ni …’ in which case the indic, expresses more plainly than the conjunctive the absolute dependence of the fact on the condition.
	There is some difficulty in understanding the mutual relation of the clauses, τὴν ἁμ . οὐκ ἔγνων , and τήν τε γὰρ ἐπιθ . οὐκ ᾔδειν . It is well known that τε differs from καί , in not  coupling things co-ordinate , but  attaching things subordinate , to a former. Thus Thucyd. i. 9 begins Ἀγαμέμνων τέ μοι δοκεῖ …, on which Poppo remarks (cited by Thol.), ‘Sequitur  exemplum auctæ Græcorum opulentiæ … ductum ex rebus Agamemnonis et causis expeditionis Trojanæ;’ an  example being a subordinate verification of a general categorical statement. The γάρ also shews that the second clause is subordinated to, and aileged in substantiation of the first. Then  what is  ἁμαρτία ? Is it sin in  act , or sin in  principle , the principle of sin? Not  sin in act , so that ἁμ . οὐκ ἔγν . should mean, ‘  I had not entered into contact with sin ,’ i.e. ‘  had not sinned :’ as Fritz.: for then the law would have truly and actually been the cause of sin: nor,  sin in act , so that the meaning were, ‘  I had not known the nature of a sinful act :’ for this would not agree with the subordination of ἐπιθυμία below: the ἐπιθ . being more general ( πᾶσαν ἐπιθ .) than the particular acts which it induced. But the reference must be to  sin in principle , the principle of sin:  I had not recognized such a thing as sin, but by means of the law . So Calv., Melancth., Calov., Rückert, Kölln., Olsh., Thol., De Wette.
	 The law here is in the full sense of  the Mosaic law as regarded  himself , not excluding the wider sense on which I have insisted in the former part of the Epistle when applied to  others .
	 τήν τε γὰρ  … ]  For neither (‘neque enim’) had  I known (by experience: ‘known any thing of’)  coveting (the motions of the flesh towards sin, whether acted on or not, whether consented to or not: this  motion he would not have  perceived , because he was simply  moving with it )  if the law had not said, Thou shalt not covet (reff. Exod. Deut.). ‘  Covet ,’ in the above sense. The Apostle omits all the objects there specified, and merely lays hold of the idea contained in ἐπιθυμήσεις . And it may well be said and strictly, that the ‘coveting’ there spoken of would lead to all kinds of sin therefore murder, adultery, &c., if carried out: and that the prohibition of desire there serves as an example of what the law actually forbids elsewhere.