 25 .] The rec. εὐχαριστῶ has but slender authority, and in the great variety of readings, it is not easy to determine, ἡ χάρις τοῦ θεοῦ is evidently a correction to answer to τίς above; so that our choice lies between χάρις τῷ θ . and χάρις δὲ θ .
	The sentence is (not, of course, constructionally, as the var. readg. ἡ χάρις τοῦ θεοῦ , but logically) an  answer to the  preceding question :  Thanks to God (who hath accomplished this)  by means of Jesus Christ our Lord . This exclamation and thanksgiving more than all convince me, that Paul speaks of  none other than himself , and  carries out as far as possible the misery of the conflict with sin in his members,  on purpose to bring in the glorious deliverance which follows . Compare 1 Corinthians 15:56-57 , where a very similar thanksgiving occurs.
	 ἄρα οὖν κ . τ . λ .] These words are most important to the understanding of the whole passage. We must bear in mind that it had begun with the question, IS THE LAW SIN? The Apostle has proved that it is NOT, but is HOLY. He has shewn the  relation that it holds to sin , viz. that of  vivifying it by means of man’s natural aversion to the commandment. He has further shewn, that in himself, even as delivered by Christ Jesus, a conflict between the law and sin is ever going on: the misery of which would be death itself, were not a glorious deliverance effected. He now sums up his vindication of the law as holy; and at the same time, sums up the other side of the evidence adduced in the passage, from which it appears that the flesh is still, even in the spiritual man, subject (  essentially , not practically and energetically) to the law of sin, which subjection, in its nature and consequences, is so nobly treated in ch. 8  So then (as appears from the foregoing),  I myself (I, who have said all this against and in disparagement of the law; I, who write of justification by faith without the deeds of the law: not ‘  I alone ,’ without Christ, as opposed to the foregoing, as De Wette, Meyer: nor, ‘  ego idem ,’ I, one and the same person, as Beza, Erasm., Calv., Olsh.: nor ‘  ille ego ,’ as Grot., Thol. See, for the meaning given above, ch. Romans 8:26 ( αὐτὸ τὸ πνεῦμα ); Romans 9:3 ; Romans 15:14 ; 2 Corinthians 12:13 , in all which places (see on ch. Rom 15:14 ) it has the same force)  with my mind (indeed ) ( ὁ νοῦς = ὁ ἔσω ἄνθρ . as in Rom 7:23 )  serve the law of God (cf. συνήδομαι , Rom 7:22 ),  but with my flesh (the ἐγώ of Romans 7:18 ; and the σάρξ throughout of ch. 8)  the law of sin . It remains to be seen how this latter subjection, which in the  natural man carries all with it , is  neutralized , and issues only in the death of the  body on account of sin,  in those who do not walk after the flesh, but after the Spirit .