 7 25 .]  An explanation of the part which the law has in bringing out sin, by example of the Apostle’s own case . In this most important and difficult passage, it is of the first consequence to have a clear view of the  form of illustration which the Apostle adopts, and of the  reason why he adopts it . The former has been amply treated of by almost all Commentators: the latter, too generally, has escaped their enquiry. But it furnishes, if satisfactorily treated, a key to the other. I ask then first,  why St. Paul  suddenly changes here to the first person ? And the answer is, because he is about to draw a conclusion negativing the question ( ὁ νόμος ἁμαρτία ;) upon purely  subjective grounds, proceeding on that which  passes within , when the work of the law is carried on in the heart. And he is about to depict this work of the law by an example which shall set it forth in vivid colours, in detail, in its connexion with sin in a man. What example then so apposite, as  his own ? Introspective as his character was, and purified as his inner vision was by the Holy Spirit of God, what example would so forcibly bring out the inward struggles of the man which prove the holiness of the law, while they shew its inseparable connexion with the production of sin?
	If this be the reason why the first person is here assumed (and I can find no other which does not introduce into St. Paul’s style an arbitrariness and caprice which it least of all styles exhibits), then we must  dismiss from our minds all exegesis which explains the passage of any other , in the first instance,  than of Paul himself : himself indeed, as an  exemplar , wherein others may see themselves: but not himself  in the person of others, be they the  Jews , nationally or individually, or  all mankind , or  individual men . This being done, there arises now a question equally important, Of  what self is it that he speaks throughout this passage? Is it  always the same ? If so, is it always the  carnal, unregenerate self? or always the  spiritual, regenerate ? Clearly  not the latter always ; for to that self the historical account of Rom 7:7-13 will not apply, and still less the assertion, in the  present , of Romans 7:14 . Clearly  not the former always : for to that the assertion of Rom 7:22 will not apply, nor that of Romans 7:25 . Is it always the  complex self , made up of the prevailing spiritual-regenerate, with the remains of the carnal-unregenerate?  Not always this : although this seems nearer to satisfying the conditions: for in the description Romans 7:9 , ἐγὼ ἔζων χωρὶς νόμου ποτέ , and in ἐγὼ σὰρκινός εἰμι κ . τ . λ . Romans 7:14 , there is no complexity, but the ἐγώ is  clearly the carnal man . Therefore not always the same. If not always the same,  where is the distinction ? If we look carefully, the Apostle himself will guide us to it. Having carried on the ἐγώ unqualified and unexplained till Romans 7:18 , he there has occasion to say οὐκ οἰκεῖ ἐν ἐμοὶ ἀγαθόν . But he is conscious that, as he had written to the Cor. ( 1Co 3:16 ), τὸ πνεῦμα τοῦ θεοῦ οἰκεῖ ἐν ὑμῖν : he therefore finds it necessary to correct himself by an explanation,  what ἐγώ  he meant , and adds to ἐν ἐμοί ,  τουτέστιν ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου . So that ἐγώ there is equivalent to ἡ σάρξ μου , i.e. ‘myself in my state of  life to the law and sin, and acting according to the motions of sin.’ Again, when the  approval of the law of God is affirmed (not the mere θέλω , which I will treat by and by), it is not barely ἐγώ , but to avoid confusion, in Rom 7:22 the Apostle adds  κατὰ τὸν ἔσω ἄνθρωπον , and in Romans 7:25 , prefixes  αὐτός ; in both cases shewing that (see notes below) he speaks of the  complex man , himself made up of an ἔσω , and an ἔξω ἄνθρωπος , of ὁ νοῦς and ἡ σάρξ . Are we then justified in assuming, that up to Rom 7:22 the carnal-unregenerate self is spoken of, but after that the complex self? Such a supposition would not be consistent with the assertion of the θέλω from Rom 7:15 onwards:  no such will existing in the carnal-unregenerate man . I believe the true account will be nearly as follows: from Rom 7:7-13 incl. is  historical , and the ἐγώ  there is the  historical self , under the working of conviction of sin, and shewing the work of the law; in other words,  the carnal self in the transition state , under the first motions towards God generated by the law, which the law could never have perfected. Then at Romans 7:14 , Paul, according to a habit very common to him, keeps hold of the carnal self, and still having it in view,  transfers himself into his present position , altering the past tense into the present, still however meaning by ἐγώ (in Rom 7:14 ), ἡ σάρξ μου . But, having passed into the present tense, he immediately mingles with this mere action of the law upon the natural conscience, the motions of the will towards God which are in conflict with the motions towards sin in the members. And hence arises an apparent verbal confusion, because the ἐγώ e.g. in Romans 7:17 , of whom it is said, οὐκ ἔτι ἐγὼ κατεργάζομαι αὐτό , being the entire personality, the  complex self , is of far wider extent than the ἐγώ of whom it is said οὐκ οἰκεῖ ἐν ἐμοί , τουτέστιν ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου , ἀγαθόν . But the latter ἐγώ , in this part of the chapter, is shewn to be (Romans 7:17 ; Rom 7:20 ) no longer properly ἐγώ , but ἡ οἰκοῦσα ἐν ἐμοὶ ἁμαρτία , and so it  passes altogether out of sight after Romans 7:20 , and  its place is taken by the actual then existing complex self of Paul, compounded of the regenerate spiritual man, sympathizing with God’s law, serving God’s law, in conflict with the still remaining though decadent carnal man, whose essence it is to serve the law of sin, to bring captive to the law of sin. This state of conflict and division against one’s self would infallibly bring about utter ruin, and might well lead to despair ( Rom 7:24 ), but for the rescue which God’s grace has provided by Jesus Christ our Lord. And this rescue has been such, that I, the αὐτὸς ἐγώ of Romans 7:25 , the  real self , the nobler and better part of the man, serve, with the νοῦς (see there), the law of God: whereas it is only with the flesh, according to which (ch. Rom 8:4 )  I do not walk , but overcome and mortify it, that I serve (am still subject to) the law of sin. Then this subjection of the flesh to the law of sin, to the δουλεία τῆς φθορᾶς , is fully set out, in its  nature, consequences to the carnal , and  uses to the spiritual , in ch. 8.
	Any thing like a summary of the exegesis of this passage would be quite beyond my limits. I must refer the student to commentaries on  this epistle alone , and especially to that of Tholuck, where a complete and masterly history is given. It may suffice here to say, that most of the ancients suppose ἐγώ to represent  mankind , or  the Jews generally , and the whole to be taken chronologically, to Rom 7:9 as  before the law, after Rom 7:9 as  under the law. This was once Augustine’s view, Prop. 44 in Ep. ad Rom. vol. iii. p. 2071, but he afterwards changed it (Retract. i. 23, vol. i. p. 620) and adopted in the main that advocated above.
	The default of a history of the exegesis will be found to be in some measure compensated by the account of opinions given under the separate verses below.