 3. ]  And accordingly ( ἄρα οὖν , ‘  from the same consideration, it follows that ’)  while her husband lives she shall be called (see ref. and on this use of the future, as declaring what shall follow on a condition being fulfilled, Winer, edn. 6, § 40. 6)  an adulteress, if she attach herself to (become the wife of)  another man: but if her husband die, she is free from the law ( τοῦ ἀνδρός ),  so that (it matters little whether τοῦ μή is the  result or the  purpose : it is better always to keep the latter in view, and to regard the result in such sentences as for the moment spoken of as the purpose to which its constituents contributed)  she is not an adulteress, though she have attached herself to another man .
	So far all is clear. But when we come to the application of the example,  this must carefully be borne in mind, as tending to clear up all the confusion which has here been found by Commentators: that the Apostle is insisting on the fact, that DEATH DISSOLVES LEGAL OBLIGATION: but he is not drawing an exact parallel between the persons in his example, and the persons in his application. The comparison might be thus made in terms common to both: (1)  Death has dissolved the legal obligation between man and wife: therefore the wife is at liberty to be married to another : (2)  Death has dissolved the legal obligation between the law and us: therefore we are at liberty to be married to another . So far the comparison is strict. Further it will not hold: for in the  example , the  liberated person is the  survivor , in the  thing treated , the  liberated person is the  dead person . And so far from this being an oversight or an inaccuracy, it is no more than that to which, more or less, all comparisons are liable; and no more can be required of them than that they should fit, in the kernel and intent of the similitude. If it be required here to apply the example further, there is no difficulty nor inconsistency in saying (as Chrys. al.) that our first Husband was the Law, and our second is Christ; but then it must be carefully borne in mind, that we are freed, not by  the law having died to us , (which matter here is not treated,) but by  our having died to the law . It is not necessary with Calv. and Tholuck, to suppose that in Rom 7:4 there is an euphemistic inversion, ‘we are dead to the law,’ instead of ‘the law is dead to us;’ indeed such a supposition would, from what is said above, much weaken the argument, which rests on our  being slain with Christ , and so  freed from the law .