 14 .] On the change into the present tense here, see above in the remarks on the whole section. Hitherto has been  historical : now the Apostle passes to the  present time , keeping hold yet of the carnal ἐγώ of former days, whose remnants are still energizing in the renewed man.  For (by way of explaining and setting in still clearer light the relative positions of sin and the law, and the state of inner conflict brought about by their working)  we know (it is an acknowledged principle amongst us, see reff.)  that the law is spiritual (sprung from God, who is a Spirit, and requiring of men spiritual purity. These meanings, which have been separately held by different Commentators, may, as Thol. and De W. observe, well be united):  but I (see beginning of section)  am carnal ([subject to the law of the flesh, and in bondage to it, see below] σάρκινος , stronger than σαρκικός ;  carneus rather than  carnalis , but it is doubtful whether the two endings were not used indiscriminately: see Tholuck),  sold (into slavery, see reff.; but the similitude must not be exacted in  all particulars , for it is only the fact of slavery, as far as its victim,  the man , is concerned, which is here prominent)  under (to, and so as to be under the power of)  sin .
	Tholuck (who differs from the view of this section advocated above, yet) adds here: “The ἐγώ appears here in its totality as sinful, while in Romans 7:16 ; Rom 7:20 it is distinguished from sin. That Paul does not here bear in mind this distinction, may be justified by the maxim, ‘à potiori fit denominatio;’ the ἐγώ is a slave, and has not his own will: as Rom 7:23 shews, the ἐγώ which is hostile to sin, the νόμος τοῦ νοός , is under coercion, and the man is a captive. So Arrian in Epict. ii. 22: ὅπου γὰρ τὸ ἐγὼ καὶ τὸ ἐμόν , ἐκεῖ ἀνάγκη ῥέπειν τὸ ζῶον , εἰ ἐν  σαρκἰ , ἐκεῖ τὸ κυριεῦον εἶναι , εἰ ἐν προαιρέσει , ἐκεῖνο (qu. ἐκεῖ ?) εἶναι .”
	The latter clause of the verse is the very strongest assertion of man’s subjection to the slavery of sin in his carnal nature.