 22, 23 .]  Explanation of the conflict above alleged to exist .  For I delight in ( σύν not signifying participation with others, but as perhaps in συνλυπούμενος , Mark 3:5 , and in the phrase σύνοιδά μοι ; denoting ‘apud animum meum.’ Thol.
	συνήδομαι is a stronger expression than σύμφημι , Rom 7:16 )  the law of God after the inner man (= νοῦς , Romans 7:25 , see reff. and compare Peter’s ὁ κρυπτὸς τῆς καρδίας ἄνθρωπος , ref. 1 Pet. But not  merely the  mental and reasoning part of man : for that surely  does not delight in the  law of God: it is  absolutely necessary to presuppose the  influence of the Holy Spirit , and to place the man in  a state of grace before this assertion can be true . And it is surprising to find Commentators like Tholuck and De Wette, while they acknowledge that συνήδομαι is stronger than σύμφημι , yet denying the gradual introduction of the  spiritual man in the description of this conflict. True, THE SPIRIT is not yet introduced, because purposely kept back until treated of as the great deliverer from this state of death; the man is as yet described as compounded of the outer and inner man, of ἡ σάρξ and ὁ νοῦς , and the operations of the two are detailed  as if unassisted , even the term πνεῦμα for the human spirit being as yet avoided, but all this is done, because  the object is to set the conflict and misery, as existing even in the spiritual man, in the strongest light , so that the question in Rom 7:24 may lead the way to the  real uses and  blessed results of this conflict in ch. 8);  but I see (= ‘  find :’ as if he were a spectator of that which is going on within)  a different law (differing in kind and aim, not = ἄλλος merely)  in my members (= ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου , Rom 7:18 ),  warring against ([in continual dissension and conflict with] ἀντιστρ . is not to be joined with βλέπω so as to = ἀντιστρατεύεσθαι , though that would be an allowable construction, see Acts 8:23 ; 1 Corinthians 8:10 , but βλέπω μου forms an independent sentence antithetic to συνήδομαι ἄνθρωπον )  the law of my mind (the consent viz., to the law of God, which my mind yields; not = the law of God, any more than the different law in my members = the law of sin, but both meaning the standard or rule set up, which inclination follows: the one in the νοῦς ,  in harmony with the law of God , the other in the μέλη or σάρξ ,  subservient , and causing subservience,  to the principle or law of sin ),  and bringing me (the whole complex self the ‘me’ of personality and action)  into captivity with (  ἐν , not exactly ‘  by means of ,’ but pointing out the department in which, the investiture with which, the taking captive has place. Nor would the simple dative be ‘  by means of ,’ as Chrys, Theodoret, Theophyl., but merely ‘  to :’ the dat. commodi aft. αἰχμαλ .)  the law of sin (the sinful principle, of resistance to God’s law, ἡ ἁμαρτία as awakened and set energizing, Romans 7:9 , by that law)  which is in my members.
	Commentators have much disputed whether the ἔτερος νόμος , and the νόμος τῆς ἁμαρτ ., both ἐν τοῖς μέλεσίν μου , are  different , or the  same . The former view is held by Calv., Beza, Köllner, Rückert, De W.: the latter by Reiche, Meyer, Fritz., Tholuck. It appears to me (see above) that the identity cannot be maintained without introducing great confusion into the sentence.