 5, 6. ]  In the fleshly state (before we died with Christ)  sinful passions which were by the Law worked in us and brought forth fruit to death: but now that we are dead to the law, we are no longer servants in the oldness of the letter, but in the newness of the spirit . The Law (ch. Romans 5:20 , alluded to again Rom 6:14 ) was the  multiplier of sin To this thought, and the inferences from it, the Apostle now recurs, and contrasts the state under the law in this respect, with that of the believer in Christ.  For when we were in the flesh (= virtually, “under the law:” see the antithesis in Romans 7:6 ; so almost all Commentators, ancient and modern, except Beza, Bengel, Reiche, and Thol., who take it to mean the mere fleshly state, in which the Spirit is not yet energizing, and Ambrst [42] , Calov., Olsh., al., who interpret it of the state of the unregenerate. But  how does  ἐν τῇ σαρκί denote ‘under the law?’ Some say,  on account of its carnality , as more or less Theodoret, Œc [43] , Hammond, Grot., al.: some,  on account of the power of sin under the law , as Chrys., Theophyl., Calv., al.: best of all is it to understand it, with Rückert, Köllner, Meyer, Fritz., De Wette, as pointing to the period  before death with Christ , in which we were sensual and sinful: so that ἐν τῇ σαρκὶ εἶναι forms a contrast with θανατωθῆναι . But, as De W. observes, it must not with Fritz. be rendered ‘quum viveremus,’ as this is never the sense of ἐν ( τῇ ) σαρκὶ ( εἶναι ), not even 2 Corinthians 10:3 ; nor, I may add, Php 1:24 )  the stirrings (‘  passions of sins ,’ objective gen., which  led to sins : not by hendiadys for παθήμ . ἁμαρτωλά , which, as always, destroys the force)  of sins, which were by means of the law (the  incitements , not the  sins , in this place, though ultimately it was so, the incitement  leading to the sin. The full meaning of διὰ τοῦ νόμου must be kept, ‘which were  by means of the law:’ i.e. the law  occasioned them . Locke argues for the rendering, ‘  under the law ,’ ‘in the time of the law,’ which would destroy the force of the argument connecting  the law with  sin , here put so strongly as to require the question of Rom 7:7 )  wrought (‘energized:’ not pass., but middle: see note on Gal 5:6 )  in our members (the instruments of sin, ch. Rom 6:13 )  to the bringing forth of fruit (see on τοῦ μή Romans 7:3 ; the καρποφ . was the final object of their energizing, not the mere result.
	 [42] Ambr  osia st  er , i.e.  Hilary the Deacon , fl. 384
	 [43] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	In καρποφ .  here , the allusion to  progeny is very distant, if it exists at all. Meyer makes it refer to an adulterous state, and personifies θάνατος ; but this can hardly be)  unto death (only a verbal antithesis to τῷ θεῷ : ‘whose end was death’):