 1. ] Connect with ch. Romans 6:14 , which is in fact the sentence immediately preceding. Reiche and Meyer connect with Romans 6:23 ; ‘The gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord: this you can only doubt by being ignorant,’ &c.
	Krehl believes ch. 7 to be the expansion of ‘Death is the wages of sin,’ and ch. 8, of ‘the free gift of God is eternal life.’ But not only does this division not hold, for much of ch. 8 regards the conflict with sin and infirmity, but the prominence of νόμος as the subject here forbids the connexion with ὀψώνια τῆς ἁμαρτ θάνατος .
	The steps of the proof are these:  The law binds a man only so long   as  he lives ( Rom 7:1 ): e.g. a married woman is only bound to her husband so long as he lives ( Rom 7:2-3 ): so also the Christian  being dead with Christ and alive to Him  is freed from the law ( Rom 7:4 ).
	 ἀδελφοί ] Not addressed particularly to  Jewish Christians: see below: but generally to the Roman church.
	 γινώσκουσιν γ  .   νόμ  .   λαλ  .] For I am speaking (writing)  to men acquainted with the law ; i.e. the persons to whom I address this epistle are such as know the law: not ‘I speak to  those who know the law,’ as if he were now addressing a different class of persons, which would require τοῖς γὰρ γινώσκουσιν τὸν νόμον τοῦτό φημι , see Galatians 4:21 . Nor does the knowledge of the law here affirmed of the Romans prove that the majority of them were Jewish Christians: they may have been Gentile proselytes.
	 ὅτι ὁ νόμ  .   κυρ  .   τοῦ ἀνθρ  .… ] that the (Mosaic: for of that, and not of any other law, is the whole argument)  law hath power over a man (not ὁ νόμ . τοῦ ἀνθρώπου , ‘a man’s law,’ and κυριεύει absolute, ‘has dominion,’ as Hamm. and Dr. Burton, which is very questionable Greek and still worse sense)  as long time as he (the man, see Romans 7:4 ; Romans 7:6 : not  the law , as Origen, Erasm., Grot., Estius, al., which would introduce the irrelevant question of the  abrogation of the law , whereas the whole matter in argument is the  relation of the Christian to the law)  lives .