2. sea of glass—Answering to
	the molten sea or great brazen laver before the mercy seat of the
	earthly temple, for the purification of the priests; typifying the
	baptism of water and the Spirit of all who are made kings and priests
	unto God. 
	mingled with fire—answering
	to the baptism on earth with fire, that is, fiery
	trial, as well as with the Holy Ghost, which Christ's people undergo
	to purify them, as gold is purified of its dross in the furnace. 
	them that had gotten the
	victory over—Greek, "those (coming) off from (the
	conflict with) the beast-conquerors." 
	over the number of his
	name—A, B, C, Vulgate, Syriac, and Coptic omit
	the words in English Version, "over his mark." The
	mark, in fact, is the number of his name which the
	faithful refused to receive, and so were victorious over it. 
	stand on the sea of
	glass—ALFORD and DE
	BURGH explain "on
	(the shore of) the sea": at the sea. So the preposition,
	Greek, "epi," with the accusative case, is
	used for at, Revelation 3:20. It
	has a pregnant sense: "standing" implies rest, Greek
	"epi" with the accusative case implies motion
	"towards." Thus the meaning is, Having come TO
	the sea, and now standing AT
	it. In Matthew 14:26, where Christ
	walks on the sea, the Greek oldest manuscripts have the
	genitive, not the accusative as here. Allusion is made to the
	Israelites standing on the shore at the Red Sea, after having
	passed victoriously through it, and after the Lord had destroyed the
	Egyptian foe (type of Antichrist) in it. Moses and the Israelites'
	song of triumph (Exodus 15:1) has
	its antitype in the saints' "song of Moses and the Lamb"
	(Revelation 15:3). Still English
	Version is consistent with good Greek, and the sense will
	then be: As the sea typifies the troubled state out of which the
	beast arose, and which is to be no more in the blessed world to come
	(Revelation 21:1), so the victorious
	saints stand on it, having it under their feet (as the woman
	had the moon, see on Revelation 21:1- :); but it is now no longer treacherous wherein the feet sink,
	but solid like glass, as it was under the feet of Christ, whose
	triumph and power the saints now share. Firmness of footing amidst
	apparent instability is thus represented. They can stand, not merely
	as victorious Israel at the Red Sea, and as John upon
	the sand of the shore, but upon the sea itself, now firm, and
	reflecting their glory as glass, their past conflict shedding the
	brighter luster on their present triumph. Their happiness is
	heightened by the retrospect of the dangers through which they have
	passed. Thus this corresponds to Revelation 7:14;
	Revelation 7:15. 
	harps of God—in the
	hands of these heavenly virgins, infinitely surpassing the
	timbrels of Miriam and the Israelitesses.