3. song of Moses . . . and . . . the
	Lamb—The New Testament song of the Lamb (that is, the song
	which the Lamb shall lead, as being "the Captain of our
	salvation," just as Moses was leader of the Israelites, the song
	in which those who conquer through Him [ :-] shall join, Revelation 12:11)
	is the antitype to the triumphant Old Testament song of Moses and the
	Israelites at the Red Sea (Revelation 12:11- :). The Churches of the Old and New Testament are
	essentially one in their conflicts and triumphs. The two appear
	joined in this phrase, as they are in the twenty-four elders.
	Similarly, Isaiah 12:1-6
	foretells the song of the redeemed (Israel foremost) after the second
	antitypical exodus and deliverance at the Egyptian Sea. The
	passage through the Red Sea under the pillar of cloud was Israel's
	baptism, to which the believer's baptism in trials corresponds. The
	elect after their trials (especially those arising from the beast)
	shall be taken up before the vials of wrath be poured on the beast
	and his kingdom. So Noah and his family were taken out of the doomed
	world before the deluge; Lot was taken out of Sodom before its
	destruction; the Christians escaped by a special interposition of
	Providence to Pella before the destruction of Jerusalem. As the
	pillar of cloud and fire interposed between Israel and
	the Egyptian foe, so that Israel was safely landed on the opposite
	shore before the Egyptians were destroyed; so the Lord, coming with
	clouds and in flaming fire, shall first catch up His
	elect people "in the clouds to meet Him in the air," and
	then shall with fire destroy the enemy. The Lamb leads the song in
	honor of the Father amidst the great congregation. This is the "new
	song" mentioned in Revelation 14:3.
	The singing victors are the 144,000 of Israel, "the
	first-fruits," and the general "harvest" of the
	Gentiles. 
	servant of God—
	(Exodus 14:31; Numbers 12:7;
	Joshua 22:5). The Lamb is more: He is
	the SON. 
	Great and marvellous are
	thy works, c.—part of Moses' last song (Deuteronomy 32:3
Deuteronomy 32:4). The vindication of the
	justice of God that so He may be glorified is the grand end of God's
	dealings. Hence His servants again and again dwell upon this in their
	praises (Revelation 16:7; Revelation 19:2;
	Proverbs 16:4; Jeremiah 10:10;
	Daniel 4:37). Especially at the
	judgment (Psalms 50:1-6;
	Psalms 145:17). 
	saints—There is no
	manuscript authority for this. A, B, Coptic, and CYPRIAN
	read, "of the NATIONS."
	C reads "of the ages," and so Vulgate and Syriac.
	The point at issue in the Lord's controversy with the earth is,
	whether He, or Satan's minion, the beast, is "the King of the
	nations"; here at the eve of the judgments descending on the
	kingdom of the beast, the transfigured saints hail Him as "the
	King of the nations" (Psalms 145:17- :).