27, 28. Now is my soul troubled—He
	means at the prospect of His death, just alluded to. Strange view of
	the Cross this, immediately after representing it as the hour of His
	glory! (John 12:23). But the
	two views naturally meet, and blend into one. It was the Greeks, one
	might say, that troubled Him. Ah! they shall see Jesus, but to Him
	it shall be a costly sight. 
	and what shall I say?—He
	is in a strait betwixt two. The death of the cross was, and could not
	but be, appalling to His spirit. But to shrink from absolute
	subjection to the Father, was worse still. In asking Himself, "What
	shall I say?" He seems as if thinking aloud, feeling His way
	between two dread alternatives, looking both of them sternly in the
	face, measuring, weighing them, in order that the choice actually
	made might be seen, and even by himself the more vividly felt,
	to be a profound, deliberate, spontaneous election. 
	Father, save me from this
	hour—To take this as a question—"Shall I say, Father,
	save me," c.—as some eminent editors and interpreters do, is
	unnatural and jejune. It is a real petition, like that in Gethsemane,
	"Let this cup pass from Me" only whereas there He
	prefaces the prayer with an "If it be possible," here
	He follows it up with what is tantamount to that—"Nevertheless
	for this cause came I unto this hour." The sentiment conveyed,
	then, by the prayer, in both cases, is twofold: (1) that only one
	thing could reconcile Him to the death of the cross—its being His
	Father's will He should endure it—and (2) that in this view of it
	He yielded Himself freely to it. What He recoils from is not
	subjection to His Father's will: but to show how tremendous a
	self-sacrifice that obedience involved, He first asks the Father
	to save Him from it, and then signifies how perfectly He knows that
	He is there for the very purpose of enduring it. Only by letting
	these mysterious words speak their full meaning do they become
	intelligible and consistent. As for those who see no bitter
	elements in the death of Christ—nothing beyond mere dying—what
	can they make of such a scene? and when they place it over against
	the feelings with which thousands of His adoring followers have
	welcomed death for His sake, how can they hold Him up to the
	admiration of men?