8. the poor always . . . with
	you—referring to Deuteronomy 15:11.
	but me . . . not always—a
	gentle hint of His approaching departure. He adds (Deuteronomy 15:11- :), "She hath done what she could," a noble
	testimony, embodying a principle of immense importance. "Verily,
	I say unto you, Wheresoever this Gospel shall be preached in the
	whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be
	told for a memorial of her" (Matthew 26:13;
	Mark 14:9). "In the act of
	love done to Him she had erected to herself an eternal monument, as
	lasting as the Gospel, the eternal word of God. From generation to
	generation this remarkable prophecy of the Lord has been fulfilled;
	and even we, in explaining this saying of the Redeemer, of necessity
	contribute to its accomplishment" [OLSHAUSEN].
	"Who but Himself had the power to ensure to any work of man,
	even if resounding in his own time through the whole earth, an
	imperishable remembrance in the stream of history? Behold once more
	here, the majesty of His royal judicial supremacy in the government
	of the world, in this, Verily I say unto you" [STIER].
	Beautiful are the lessons here: (1) Love to Christ transfigures
	the humblest services. All, indeed, who have themselves a heart
	value its least outgoings beyond the most costly mechanical
	performances; but how does it endear the Saviour to us to find Him
	endorsing the principle as His own standard in judging of character
	and deeds! 
	 What though in poor and
	humble guise 
	 Thou here didst
	sojourn, cottage-born, 
	 Yet from Thy glory in the
	skies 
	 Our earthly gold Thou
	didst not scorn. 
	 For Love delights to
	bring her best, 
	 And where Love is, that
	offering evermore is blest. 
	 Love on the Saviour's
	dying head 
	 Her spikenard drops
	unblam'd may pour, 
	 May mount His cross, and
	wrap Him dead 
	 In spices from the
	golden shore. 
	 
	 KEBLE.
	 
	
(2) Works of utility should
	never be set in opposition to the promptings of self-sacrificing
	love, and the sincerity of those who do so is to be suspected.
	Under the mask of concern for the poor at home, how many excuse
	themselves from all care of the perishing heathen abroad. (3) Amidst
	conflicting duties, that which our "hand (presently)
	findeth to do" is to be preferred, and even a less duty only
	to be done now to a greater that can be done at any time.
	(4) "If there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according
	to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not" (Mark 14:9- :). —"She hath done what she could" (Mark 14:9- :). (5) As Jesus beheld in spirit the universal diffusion of
	His Gospel, while His lowest depth of humiliation was only
	approaching, so He regards the facts of His earthly history as
	constituting the substance of this Gospel, and the relation of
	them as just the "preaching of this Gospel." Not that
	preachers are to confine themselves to a bare narration of these
	facts, but that they are to make their whole preaching turn upon them
	as its grand center, and derive from them its proper vitality; all
	that goes before this in the Bible being but the preparation
	for them, and all that follows but the sequel.