Filthiness [ρυπαριαν] . Only here in New Testament, but James uses the kindred adjective (ch. 2 2), "vile raiment." 'Rupov, filth, occurs in 1Pe 3:21 - on which see notes; and the verb rJupow, to be filthy, is found in Revelation 22:11. Superfluity of naughtiness [περισσειαν κακιας] . A translation which may be commended to the attention of indiscriminate panegyrists of the A. V. Perisseia is an unclassical word, and occurs in three other New - Testament passages - Romans 5:17; 2 Corinthians 8:2; 2 Corinthians 10:15. In all these it is rendered abundance, both by A. V. and Rev. There seems to be no need of departing from this meaning here, as Rev., overflowing. The sense is abounding or abundant wickedness. For naughtiness Rev. gives wickedness, as in 1 Peter 2:1, 1 Peter 2:16, where it changes malice to wickedness. It is mosty rendered malice in both A. V. and Rev. In this passage, as in the two from Peter, Rev. gives malice, in margin. Malice is an adequate translation, the word denoting a malevolent disposition toward one's neighbor. Hence it is not a general term for moral evil, but a special form of vice. Compare the wrath of man, ver. 20. Naughtiness has acquired a petty sense in popular usage, as of the mischievous pranks of children, which renders it out of the question here. With meekness [εν πραυτητι] . Lit., "in meekness;" opposed to malice. Engrafted [εμφυτον] . Only here in New Testament. Better, and more literally, as Rev., implanted. It marks a characteristic of the word of truth (ver. 18). It is implanted; divinely given, in contrast with something acquired by study. Compare Matthew 13:19, "the word of the kingdom - sown in his heart." Grafted or graffed is expressed by a peculiar word, employed by Paul only, ejgkentrizw, from kentron, a sharp point, thus emphasizing the fact of the incision required in grafting. See Romans 11:17, Romans 11:19, Romans 11:23, Romans 11:24. Which is able to save [τον δυναμενον σωσαι] . Compare Romans 1:16, "the power of God unto salvation."