 8 .]  But moreover (not only have I once for all passed this judgment, but I  continue to count , &c. The contrast is of the present  ἡγοῦμαι to  ἥγημαι above)  I also continue to esteem them all (not,  all things , which would require πάντα or τὰ πάντα (see below)  before ἡγοῦμαι , emphatic)  to be loss on account of the supereminence (above them all: τοῦ γὰρ ἡλίου φανέντος , προσκαθῆσθαι τῷ λύχνῳ ζημία . Chrys. On the neuter adjective (or participle) construction, see ref. and 2Co 4:17 )  of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord (‘quod Dominum suum vocat, id ad exprimendam affectus vehementiam facit.’ Calv.),  on whose account (explained by  ἵνα … below)  I suffered the loss of ALL THINGS (now, emphatic and universal. Or, it  may be, “them all,” as Ellic.: but this almost involves a tautology; and, besides, τὰ πάντα stands too far from ἅτινα for the τά to be reflexive),  and esteem them to be refuse, that I may (by so disesteeming them: ἵνα gives the aim of what went before)  gain Christ (not, as the rationalizing Grot., ‘Christi favorem:’ no indeed, it is Christ Himself, His perfect image, His glorious perfection, which he wishes to win. He has Him now, but not in full: this can only be when his course is finished, and to this time the next words allude)  and be found (now, and especially at His coming, ‘evadam:’ not as Calv., ‘Paulum renuntiasse omnibus …  ut recuperaret (urgrammatical) in Christo.’ Cf. ref. 2 Cor.)  in Him (living and being, and included, in Him as my element),  not having (specification of  εὑρ  .   ἐν αὐτῷ , but not to be joined, as Lachm., al., with  ἐν αὐτῷ , which would make this latter superfluous)  my own righteousness (see on Php 3:6 )  which is of (arising from)  the law, but that which is through (as its medium)  the faith of (in)  Christ (a construction of this sentence has been suggested to me, which is perhaps possible, and at all events deserves mention.
	It consists in making ἐμὴν δικαιοσύνην predicative; “not having as my righteousness that righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ”),  the righteousness which is of (answering to  ἐκ νόμου , as its source, see Eph 2:8 )  God on my faith (built on, grounded on, granted on condition of, my faith. It is more natural to take  ἐπὶ τῇ πίστει with δικαιοσύνην , which it immediately follows, than with Meyer to understand another ἔχων to attach it to. The omission of the article is no objection, but is very frequent, where the whole expression is joined as one idea. Chrys., al., join  ἐπὶ τῇ πίστει with  τοῦ γνῶναι , as if it were τοῦ ἐπὶ τ . π . γνῶναι , which of course is unallowable: Calv., Grot., Bengel, make the infinitive  τοῦ γνῶναι dependent on  πίστει (“describit vim et naturam fidei, quod scilicet sit Christi cognitio.” Calv.), which is also inadmissible, for πίστις , as Mey. observes, is never joined with a genitive article and infinitive: and when with a genitive, not the nature but the object of faith is described by it),