 15, 16 .]  Exhortation to them to be unanimous in following this his example . In order to understand this somewhat difficult passage, we must remember (1) that the description of his own views and feelings which he holds up for their imitation ( συμμιμηταί μου γίν .) began with having no confidence in the flesh, Philippians 3:4 , and has continued to Philippians 3:14 . Also (2) that the description commencing with  ὅσοι οὖν τέλειοι , is taken up again from Philippians 3:3 , ἡμεῖς γάρ ἐσμεν ἡ περιτομή , οἱ πνεύματι θεοῦ λατρεύοντες , κ . καυχώμενοι ἐν χ . Ἰησοῦ , κ . οὐκ ἐν σαρκὶ πεποιθότες . These two considerations will keep us from narrowing too much the  τοῦτο φρονῶμεν , and from misunderstanding the  ὅσοι οὖν τέλειοι .  As many of us then (refers to Philippians 3:3 ; see above)  as are perfect (mature in Christian life, = those described above, Php 3:3 ),  let us be of this mind (viz. that described as entertained by himself, Php 3:7-14 ):  and if in any thing (accusative of reference: see Kühner, Gramm. ii. 220 ff.)  ye be differently minded (for ἑτέρως , cf. Od. α . 232 ff., μέλλεν μέν ποτε οἶκος ὅδ ʼ ἀφνειὸς κ . ἀμύμων | ἔμμεναι , ὄφρ ʼ ἔτι κεῖνος ἀνὴρ ἐπιδήμιος ἦεν | νῦν δ ʼ  ἑτέρως ἐβάλοντο θεοί , κακὰ μητιόωντες : Demosth. p. 298. 22, εἰ μέν τι τῶν δεόντων ἐπράχθη , τὸν καιρόν , οὐκ ἐμέ φησιν αἴτιον γεγενῆσθαι , τῶν δ ʼ ὡς  ἑτέρως συμβάντων ἁπάντων ἐμὲ καὶ τὴν ἐμὴν τύχην αἰτίαν εἶναι . Hence it gives the meaning of diversity in a bad sense. The difference referred to seems to be that of too much self-esteem as to Christian perfection: see below),  this also (as well as the rest which he has revealed)  will God reveal to you (i.e. in the progress of the Christian life, you will find the true knowledge of your own imperfection and of Christ’s all-sufficiency revealed to you by God’s Spirit, Ephesians 1:17 ff. ὅρα πῶς συνεσταλμένως τοῦτό φησιν . ὁ θεὸς ὑμᾶς διδάξει , τουτέστιν , ὑμᾶς πείσει , οὐχὶ διδάξει ἁπλῶς . ἐδίδασκε μὲν γὰρ ὁ Παῦλος , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ θεὸς ἐνῆγε . καὶ οὐκ εἶπεν , ἐνάξει , ἀλλ ʼ ἀποκαλύψει , ἵνα δόξῃ μᾶλλον ἀγνοίας εἶναι τὸ πρᾶγμα . οὐ περὶ δογμάτων ταῦτ ʼ εἴρηται , ἀλλὰ περὶ βίου τελειότητος , κ . τοῦ μὴ νομίζειν ἑαυτοὺς τελείους εἶναι · ὡς ὅγε νομίζων τὸ πᾶν εἰληφέναι , οὐδὲν ἔχει . Chrys.
	 τοῦτο must not be taken as Œc., Grot., &c. as representing  the fact, that ye  ἑτέρως φρονεῖτε , but is  the thing, respecting which ye ἑτ . φρ .).