 5 .] “predicates of the  ἐγώ , justifying the  ἐγὼ μᾶλλον ,” Meyer. He compares himself with them in three particulars: 1. pure Jewish extraction: 2. legal exactitude and position: 3. legal zeal.  In circumcision (i.e. ‘as regards circumcision:’ reff. Many (Erasm., Beng., all.) have taken περιτ . as nominative, and understood it concrete, ‘  circumcisus ,’ but wrongly, for the usage applies only collectively, see Winer, edn. 3 (not in edn. 6), § 31. 3),  of eight days (Genesis 17:12 ; as distinguished from those who, as proselytes, were circumcised in after life. For usage, see reff.),  of the race, of Israel (cf. Romans 11:1 ; 2 Corinthians 11:22 , οὔτε μὴν ἐκ προσηλύτων γεγέννημαι , ἀλλὰ τὸν Ἰσραὴλ αὐχῶ πρόγονον . Thdrt.),  of the tribe of Benjamin ( ὥστε τοῦ δοκιμωτέρου μέρους , Chrys.: or perhaps as Calv., merely ‘ut moris erat, singulos ex sua tribu censeri’),  an Hebrew, of Hebrews (i.e. from Hebrew parents and ancestry (which the word  parents was of course meant to imply in my earlier editions: not, as Ellic., to limit the assertion to St. Paul’s father and mother) on both sides: ἐντεῦθεν δείκνυσιν ὅτι οὐχὶ προσήλυτος , ἀλλ ʼ ἄνωθεν τῶν εὐδοκίμων Ἰουδαίων . ἐνῆν μὲν γὰρ εἶναι τοῦ Ἰσραήλ , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ Ἑβραῖον ἐξ Ἑβραίων . πολλοὶ γὰρ καὶ διέφθειρον ἤδη τὸ πρᾶγμα , καὶ τῆς γλώσσης ἦσαν ἀμύητοι , ἑτέροις μεμιγμένοι ἔθνεσιν . Chrys.: see also Trench, Synonyms, § xxxix. p. 153 ff. So Demosth. adv. Androt. p. 614, δούλους ἐκ δούλων καλῶν ἑαυτοῦ βελτίους κ . ἐκ βελτιόνων : see other examples in Kypke and Wetst.),  as regards the law (with reference to relative legal position and observance),  a Pharisee (cf. Acts 23:6 ; Act 26:5 ),  as regards zeal (for the law),  a persecutor of the church (of Christ: on the participle, see ref.: Ellic. holds the pres. part. to have an adjectival force, being predicate to a suppressed verb subst.),  as regards righteousness which is in (as its element: consists in the keeping of)  the law, become blameless (i.e. having carried this righteousness so far as to have become perfect in it, in the sight of men. Calvin well distinguishes between the real and apparent righteousness in the law the former before God, never possessed by any man: the latter before men, here spoken of by Paul: ‘erat ergo hominum judicio sanctus, et immunis ab omni reprehensione. Rara sane laus, et prope singularis: videamus tamen quanti eam fecerit’).