 21 .] (describes  the method, in which this Saviour shall save us a way utterly precluding  our making a God of our body)  who shall transform (see 1 Corinthians 15:51 ff. The words assume, as St. Paul always does when speaking incidentally, the ἡμεῖς surviving to witness the coming of the Lord. The change from the dust of death in the resurrection, however we may  accommodate the expression to it, was not originally contemplated by it; witness the  ἀπεκδεχόμεθα , and the σῶμα τῆς ταπεινώσεως ἡμῶν . It is quite in vain to attempt to escape from this inference, as Eilicott does, by saying that “every moment of a true Christian’s life involves such an ἀπεκδοχήν .” This is most true, but in no way accounts for the peculiar expressions used here)  the body of our humiliation (beware of the hendiadys, by which most Commentators, and even Conyb. here enervate the Apostle’s fine and deep meaning. The  body is that object, that material, in which our  humiliation has place and is shewn, by its suffering and being degraded πολλὰ πάσχει νῦν τὸ σῶμα , δεσμεῖται , μαστίζεται , μυρία πάσχει δεινά , Chrys. He once had such a ταπείνωσις , and has passed through it to His glory and He shall change us so as to be like Him. Whereas the rendering ‘  our vile body ’ sinks all this, and makes the epithet merely refer to that which is common to all humanity by nature. It is besides, perhaps, hardly allowable: for  ταπείνωσις cannot unless the exigency of context require it, as in ref. Luke (not in Pro 16:19 ), signify mere ‘  vileness ,’ ταπεινότης , but must imply the act whereby the body ταπεινοῦται ) (  so as to be )  conformed to (on this common idiom, εὔφημον , ὦ τάλαινα , κοίμησον στόμα , Æsch. Ag. 1258, al. freq., cf. Kühner, ii. 121)  the body of His glory (in which, as its object or material, His glory has place and is displayed: see above),  according to (after the analogy of)  the working of His power also (besides the μετασχήμ . &c. spoken of)  to subject to Him all things (  the universe : see the exception, 1Co 15:25-27 ). ταῦτα δὲ ποιήσει , says Thdrt., ἅτε δὴ δύναμιν ἄῤῥητον ἔχων , κ . ῥᾳδίως κ . τὴν φθορὰν κ . τὸν θάνατον καταπαύων , κ . εἰς ἀθανασίαν τὰ ἡμέτερα σώματα μεταβάλλων , κ . παρασκευάζων ἅπαντας εἰς αὐτὸν ἀποβλέπειν . And Chrys.: ἔδειξε μείζονα ἔργα τῆς δυνάμεως αὐτοῦ , ἵνα κ . τούτοις πιστεύσῃς .
	 αὐτῷ , used of the αὐτός of the whole sentence, from the position of the writer, not of the agent in the clause itself.