 18 .]  For (reason for σκοπεῖτε κ . τ . λ . in the form of warning against others who walk differently)  many walk (no need to supply any thing, as κακῶς (Œc.), or ‘  longe aliter ’ (Grot.), nor to understand the word ‘  circulantur ,’ as 1 Peter 5:8 (Storr, al., but inconsistently with Php 3:17 ), still less with Calv. ‘  ambulant terrena cogitantes ’ (ungrammatical:  οἱ τὰ ἐπίγ . φρ .): or to consider the sentence as broken off by the relative clause (De W., al.); for  περιπατοῦσιν is a ‘verbum indifferens,’ as in Philippians 3:17 , τοὺς  οὕτως περιπ .)  whom I many times (answers to πολλοί )  mentioned to you (viz. when I was with you)  but now mention even weeping ( διὰ τί ; ὅτι ἐπέτεινε τὸ κακόν , ὅτι δακρύων ἄξιοι οἱ τοιοῦτοι … κλαίει τοίνυν ὁ Παῦλος ἐφ ʼ οἷς ἕτεροι γελῶσι καὶ σπαταλῶσιν . οὕτως ἐστὶ συμπαθητικός , οὕτω φροντίζει πάντων ἀνθρώπων . Chrys.),  the enemies (the article designates the particular class intended)  of the cross of Christ (not, as Thdrt., Luth., Erasm., all., of the  doctrine of the Cross: nor is there any reason to identify these with those spoken of Philippians 3:2 . Not Judaistic but Epicurean error, not obliquity of creed but of practice, is here stigmatized. And so Chrys., ἐπειδή τινες ἦσαν ὑποκρινόμενοι μὲν τὸν χριστιανισμόν , ἐν ἀνέσει δὲ ζῶντες  κ  . τρυφῇ · τοῦτο δὲ ἐναντίον τῷ σταυρῷ ),  of whom perdition (everlasting, at the coining of the Lord: see ch. Php 1:28 )  is the (fixed, certain)  end; of whom their belly is the god (cf. the boast of the Cyclops, in Eurip. Cycl. 334 ff., ἃ ʼ γὼ οὔ τινι θύω , πλὴν ἐμοί , θεοῖσι δ ʼ οὔ , | καὶ τῇ μεγίστῃ γαστρὶ τῇδε δαιμόνων | ὡς τοὐμπιεῖν γε καὶ φαγεῖν τοὐφ ʼ ἡμέραν , | Ζεὺς οὗτος ἀνθρώποισι τοῖσι σώφροσιν . Seneca de benef. vii. 26, ‘alius abdomini servit’)  and their glory in their shame (“  ἡ δόξα is subjective, in the judgment of these men, and τῇ αἰσχύνῃ objective, according to the reality of morals. Cf. Polyb. xv. 23. 5, ἐφ ʼ οἷς ἐχρῆν αἰτχύνεσθαι καθ ʼ ὑπερβολήν , ἐπὶ τούτοις ὡς καλοῖς σεμνύνεσθαι καὶ μεγαλαυχεῖν . On εἶναι ἐν , ‘  versari ,’ to be found in, or contained in, any thing, cf. Plato Gorg. 470 E, ἐν τούτῳ ἡ πᾶσα εὐδαιμονία ἐστίν , Eur. Phœn. 1310, οὐκ ἐν αἰσχύνῃ τὰ σά .” Meyer.
	Ambr., Hil., Pel., Aug., Beng., al., refer the expression to circumcision, taking another meaning for αἰσχύνη (‘venter et pudor sunt affinia.’ Beng.), but without reason; and Chrys., al., disown the meaning),  who regard (it is not easy to give φρονεῖν , φρόνημα , in this sense, by one word in English. They betoken the whole aspect, the  set of the thoughts and desires: τὰ ἐπίγεια , are the substratum of all their feelings)  the things on earth (in opposition to the things above, cf. Colossians 3:1 ff. The construction is that of logical reference to the subject of the sentence, setting aside the strictness of grammatical connexion: so Thuc. iii. 36, ἔδοξεν αὐτοῖς … ἐπικαλοῦντες …, and iv. 108; vi. 24; vii. 42: see more examples in Kühner, ii. 377.
	The οἱ serves as τούς above, to indicate and individualize the class).