 12 .]  not that (I do not mean, that …, see reff.)  I have already acquired (this χριστὸν κερδῆσαι : not the βραβεῖον below (Mey.), which is an image subsequently introduced, whereas the reference here must be to something foregoing, nor τὴν ἀνάστασιν , which has just been  stated as an object of his wishes for the future: but as Calv., “nempe ut in solidum communicet Christi passionibus, ut perfectum habeat gustum potentiæ resurrectionis, ut ipsum plane cognoseat”)  or am already completed (in spiritual perfection. Philo de Alleg. iii. 23, vol. i. p. 101, πότε οὖν , ὦ ψυχή , μάλιστα νεκροφορεῖν σαυτὴν ὑπολήψῃ ; ἆρά γε οὐχ ὅταν τελειωθῇς καὶ βραβείων κ . στεφάνων ἀξιωθῇς ;),  but I pursue (the image of a runner in a course is already before him. So διώκω absolute in Æsch. Theb. 89, ὄρνυταιλαὸς … ἐπὶ πόλιν διώκων . This is simpler than to suppose that an object, the βραβεῖον , is in his mind, though not expressed. See Ellic.’s note)  if (nearly = εἴ πως above)  I may also (besides διώκειν not as Mey., nicht bloss greife ( ἔλαβον ), sondern auch ergreife: nor does it answer to the καί following, as De W.)  lay hold of (Herod. ix. 58, διωκτέοι εἰσί , ἐς ὃ καταλαμφθέντες … δώσουσι δίκας : Lucian, Hermotim. 77, διώκοντες οὐ κατέλαβον )  that for which (this seems the simplest rendering, and has been the usual one. Meyer’s rendering of  ἐφ  ʼ   ᾧ ‘  because ,’ after Chrys., Thdrt., Thl., requires καταλάβω to be  absolute , and would more naturally be expressed ἐφ ʼ ᾧ κἀγὼ κατελήμφθην , the emphatic first person hardly admitting of being supplied from the preceding clause: whereas on our rendering the whole forms but one clause, the first person recurring throughout it. Grot.’s, ‘quo ut pervenire possem,’ Beza’s, &c., ‘for which reason,’ all keeping  καταλάβω absolute, are not open to the above objection)  I was also laid hold of (the  καί belongs to the verb, not to ἐγώ understood, nor to the ἐφ ʼ ᾧ , as if there might be other ends for which he was apprehended (Ellic.): see above and brings out, that in my case there was another instance of the καταλαβεῖν . For the sense, cf. 1 Corinthians 13:12 , ἐπιγνώσομαι καθὼς καὶ ἐπεγνώσθην : and Plato, Tim. p. 39, τῇ δὴ ταὐτοῦ φορᾷ τὰ τάχιστα περμόντα ὑπὸ τῶν βραδυτέρων ἰόντων ἐφαίνετο καταλαμβάνοντα καταλαμβάνεσθαι . The time referred to by the aorist was his  conversion : but we need not, as Chrys., al., press the image of the race, and regard him as  flying and  overtaken )  by Christ .