 20 .]  For (I may well direct you to avoid τοὺς τὰ ἐπίγεια φρονοῦντας :  for  our state and feelings are wholly alien from theirs)  our (emphatic)  country (the  state , to which we belong, of which we by faith are citizens, ἡ πατρίς , Thl.; meaning the Kingdom of God, the heavenly Jerusalem (Galatians 4:26 . Colossians 3:1 ff.). This objective meaning of the word is better than the subjective one, ‘  our citizenship ’ ( πολιτεία , Acts 22:28 ; but they seem sometimes to be used indifferently, see Palm and Rost’s Lex., and Aristot. Pol. iii. 4, κύριον μὲν γὰρ τὸ πολίτευμα τῆς πόλεως · πολίτευμα δ ʼ ἐστὶν ἡ πολιτεία , cf. however, on the other side, Ellicott: and his note through out), or, ‘  our conversation ,’ as vulg. E. V., which rendering seems to want precedent. Conyb. renders it ‘  life :’ but this is insufficient, even supposing it justifiable, as giving the English reader the idea of ζωή , and so misleading him. I may remark, in passing, on the unfortunate misconception of St. Paul’s use of the plural, which has marred so many portions of Mr. Conybeare’s version of the Epistles, and none more sadly than this, where he gives the Apostle’s noble description of the state and hopes of us Christians, as contrasted with the τὰ ἐπίγ . φρονοῦντες , all in the singular ‘  For my life, &c. ,  from whence also I look, &c. ’)  subsists (the word is more solemn, as indicating priority and fixedness, than ἐστιν would be: see notes, ch. Philippians 2:6 , and Act 16:20 )  in the heavens, from whence (  οὗ does not refer to πολίτευμα , as Beng., al. nor = ὧν , nor to be rendered ‘  ex quo tempore ,’ as Erasm., but ἐξ οὗ is adverbial, ‘  unde ,’see Winer, § 21. 3, and cf. Xen. Anab. i. 2. 20, ἡμέρας τρεῖς , ἐν ᾧ )  also (additional particular, following on heaven being our country)  we wait for (expect, till the event arrives: see note on Romans 8:19 , and a dissertation in the Fritzschiorum Opuscula, p. 150 ff.)  a Saviour (emphatic: therefore  we cannot τὰ ἐπίγ . φρονεῖν , because we are waiting for one to deliver us from them. Or,  as Saviour (Ellic.): but perhaps the other is preferable, as being simpler), (  viz. )  the Lord Jesus Christ ,