 10 .] (aim and employment of this righteousness, taking up again the ὑπερέχον τῆς γνώσεως , Philippians 3:8 . De W., al., treat  τοῦ γν  . as parallel with ἵνα κερδήσω , κ . τ . λ . But as Mey. remarks, it is no real parallel, for there is more in ἵνα χρ . κερδήσω &c. than in τοῦ γνῶναι αὐτόν &c. Besides, thus the process of thought is disturbed, in which, from ἵνα to  ἐπὶ τῇ πίστει answers to  διὰ τὸν χριστόν above, and from  τοῦ γν  . to  νεκρῶν answers to  διὰ τὸ ὑπερέχον τ  .   γνώσεως αὐτοῦ . See a similar construction, Rom 6:6 ),  in order to know Him (know, in that fulness of experimental knowledge, which is only wrought by being like Him),  and (not = ‘  that is to say :’ but additional: His Person, and … and …)  the power of His resurrection (i.e. not ‘  the power by which He was raised ,’ but the power which His resurrection  exercises on believers in assuring them of their justification, Romans 4:25 ; 1 Corinthians 15:17 ; mostly however here, from the context which goes on to speak of conformity with His sufferings and death, in  raising them with Him , cf. Romans 6:4 ; Col 2:12 ),  and the participation of His sufferings (which is the necessitating condition of being brought under the power of His resurrection, see as above, and 2Ti 2:11 ),  being conformed (the nominative is an anacoluthon, belonging to  τοῦ γνῶναι , and referring, as often, to the  logical subject)  to His Death (it does not appear to me that St. Paul is here speaking, as Mey., al., of his imminent risk of a death of martyrdom, but that his meaning is general, applying to his whole course of suffering and self-denial, as indeed throughout the sentence. This conformity with Christ’s death was to take place by means of that perfect self-abjuration which he here asserts of himself see Romans 8:29 ; 2Co 2:14 ; 2 Corinthians 4:10 ff.; 1 Corinthians 15:31 , and especially Gal 2:20 ),  if by any means (so Thucyd. ii. 77, πᾶσαν γὰρ ἰδέαν ἐπενόουν , εἴ πως σφίσιν ἄνευ δαπάνης κ . πολιορκίας προσαχθείη : Herod. vi. 52, βουλομένην , εἴ κως ἀμφότεροι γενοίατο βασιλῆες . It is used when an end is proposed, but failure is presumed to be possible: see Hartung, ii. 206; Kühner, ii. 584. ὅμως μετὰ ταῦτα πάντα οὔπω θαῤῥῶ · ὅπερ ἀλλαχοῦ λέγει ὁ δοκῶν ἑστάναι βλεπέτω μὴ πέσῃ . κ . πάλιν , φοβοῦμαι μή πως ἄλλοις κηρύξας , αὐτὸς ἀδόκιμος γένωμαι . Chrys.)  I may attain (not future, but subjunctive aorist. On the sense, see Acts 26:7 ; from which alone, it is evident that it does not signify ‘  live until ,’ as Van Hengel)  unto the resurrection from the dead (viz. the blessed resurrection of the dead in Christ, in which οἱ τοῦ χριστοῦ shall rise ἐν τῇ παρουσίᾳ αὐτοῦ , 1 Corinthians 15:23 , see also 1 Thessalonians 4:16 . But the  ἐξ  - in  ἐξανάστ  . does not distinctively point out this first resurrection, but merely indicates rising  up , out of the dust; cf. the verb Mark 12:19 ║ [1] L., Acts 15:5 , and the word itself in ref. Polyb.).
	 [1]║ When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .