 13 .] Emphatic and affectionate re-statement of the same, but not merely so; he evidently alludes to some whom he wishes to warn by his example.  Brethren, I (emphatic: cf. John 5:30 ; John 7:17 ; John 8:33 ; Act 26:9 )  do not reckon myself (emphatic)  to have laid hold: but one thing (I do: not λογίζομαι , nor διώκω , nor φροντίζω , none of which correspond to the epexegesis following: nor can we say that nothing requires to be supplied (Grot., al.), for even in  τοῦτο δέ this would not be so the sense must have a logical supplement: nor will it do to join ἕν to διώκω (Aug., al.), or to supply ἐστι (Beza)):  forgetting the things behind (me, as a runner in the course; by which image, now fully before him, the expressions in this verse must be explained: καὶ γὰρ ὁ δρομεὺς οὐχ ὅσους ἤνυσεν ἀναλογίζεται διαύλους , ἀλλ ʼ ὅσους λείπεται … τί γὰρ ἡμᾶς ὠφελεῖ τὸ ἀνυσθέν , ὅταν τὸ λειπόμενον μὴ προστεθῇ ; Chr. Thdrt. explains it περὶ τῶν τοῦ κηρύγματος πόνων : but this seems insufficient),  but ever reaching out towards (as the runner whose body is bent forwards in his course; the ἐπί giving the continual addition of exertion in this direction (Mey.) or perhaps merely the direction itself. ὁ γὰρ ἐπεκτεινόμενος , τοῦτ ʼ ἐστιν , ὁ τοὺς πόδας καίτοι τρέχοντας τῷ λοιπῷ σώματι προλαβεῖν σπουδάζων , ἐπεκτείνων ἑαυτὸν εἰς τὸ ἔμπροσθεν , κ . τὰς χεῖρας ἐκτείνων , ἵνα κ . τοῦ δρόμου πλέον τι ἐργάσηται . Chr.)  the things before (i.e. the perfection not yet reached),  I pursue (on  διώκω absolute, see note, Php 3:12 )  towards the goal (the contrary of ἀπὸ σκοποῦ , beside the mark, Plato, Tim. p. 25 al.)  for (to reach, with a view to; or perhaps simply in the direction of: see reff. for both)  the prize (see 1 Corinthians 9:24 ; 2 Timothy 4:8 ; Rev 2:10 )  of my heavenly (reff. and κλῆσις ἐπουράνιος Hebrews 3:1 , Ἱερουσ . ἐπουράνιος Hebrews 12:22 . Not, ‘  from above ,’ = ἄνωθεν : but the allusion is to his appointment having been made directly in heaven, not by delegation on earth)  calling (not as we familiarly use the word, ‘calling in life,’ &c. but to be kept to the  act of his being called as an Apostle: q. d. ‘the prize consequent on the faithful carrying out of that oummons which I received from God in heaven’)  of God (who was the caller: but we must not think of Him, as Grot., al., as the arbiter sitting above and summoning to the course, for in these last words the figure is dropt, and ἡ ἄνω κλῆσις represents real matter of fact)  in Christ Jesus (to what are these last words to be referred? Chrys., al., join them with διώκω : ἐν χ . Ἰ . τοῦτο ποιῶ , φησιν . οὐ γὰρ ἔνι χωρὶς τῆς ἐκείνου ῥοπῆς τοσοῦτον διελθεῖν διάστημα · πολλῆς δεῖ τῆς βοηθείας , πολλῆς τῆς συμμαχίας . But I own the arrangement of the sentence thus seems to me very unnatural and the constant practice of St. Paul to join θεός and things said of θεός with ἐν χριστῷ weighs strongly for the other connexion, viz. that with τ . κλήσεως τοῦ θεοῦ . The objection that then τῆς or τοῦ would be required before ἐν , is not valid; the unity of the idea of the κλῆσις ἐν κυρίῳ , 1 Corinthians 7:22 , would dispense with it).