 27. ]  But I bruise my body (  ὑπωπιάζω , lit. to strike heavily in the face so as to render black and blue, “ ὑπώπια , τὰ ὑπὸ τοὺς ὦπας τῶν πληγῶν ἴχνη , ut ait Pollux: sed latius dici sic cœpere ἀφ ʼ οἱασδηποτοῦν πληγῆς τραύματα , ut ait Scholiastes ad Aristoph. Acharn., Cicero Tusc. 2, ‘Pugiles cæstibus contusi,’ i.e. ὑπωπιαζόμενοι .” Grot. The  body is the adversary, considered as the seat of the temptations of Satan, and especially of that self-indulgence which led the Corinthians to forget their Christian combat, and sit at meat in the idol’s temple. The abuse of this expression to favour the absurd practice of the Flagellants, or to support ascetic views at all, need hardly be pointed out to the rational, much less to the Christian student. It is not even of fasting or prayer that he is here speaking, but as the context, 1 Corinthians 9:19-23 , shews, of breaking down the pride and obstinacy and self-seeking of the natural man by laying himself entirely out for his great work the salvation of the greatest number: and that, denying himself “solatium” from without: “My hands have been worn away (cf. χεῖρες αὗται , Act 20:34 ) with the black tent-cloths, my frame has been bowed down with this servile labour (cf. ἐλεύθερος .… ἐδούλωσα , 1Co 9:19 ).” Stanley)  and enslave it (‘etiam δουλαγωγεῖν a pyctis desumptum est; nam qui vicerat, victum (vinctum?) trahebat adversarium quasi servum.’ Grot. But this seems to want confirmation. I can find no account of such a practice in any of the ordinary sources of information. Certainly Dares is not made the slave of Entellus in Æn. v.: and Virgil is generally accurate in such matters. I had rather give a more general meaning: that viz. of the necessary subjection, for the time, of the worsted to the prevailing combatant),  lest perchance having proclaimed ( κηρ . absolute [answering to our use of  preach ]: as in Æsch. Eum. 566, κήρυσσε , κῆρυξ , καὶ στρατὸν κατειργάθου (peile). The subject of the proclamation might be the  laws of the combat , or the  names of the victors (Æn. v. 245), each by one in the capacity of  herald : probably here the former only, as answering to the preaching of the Apostles. The nature of the case shews, that the Christian herald differs from the agonistic herald, in being himself  a combatant as well , which the other was not: and that this is so, is no objection to thus understanding κηρύξας . “This introduces indeed a new complication into the metaphor: but it is rendered less violent by the fact, that … sometimes the victor in the games was also selected as the herald to announce his success. So it was a few years after the date of this Epistle, in the case of Nero. Suet. Nero, c. 24.” Stanley)  to others, I myself may prove rejected (from the  prize : not, as some Commentators, from the  contest altogether , for he was already  in it ). An examination of the victorious combatants took place after the contest, and if it could be proved that they had contended unlawfully, or unfairly, they were deprived of the prize and driven with disgrace from the games. Such a person was called ἐκκεκριμένος , and ἀποδεδοκιμασμένος , see Philo de Cherub., § 22, vol. i. p. 152. So the Apostle, if he had proclaimed the laws of the combat to others, and not observed them himself, however successful he might apparently be, would be personally rejected as ἀδόκιμος in the great day. And this he says with a view to shew them the necessity of more self-denial, and less going to the extreme limit of their Christian liberty; as Chrys. εἰ γὰρ ἐμοὶ τὸ κηρῦξαι , τὸ διδάξαι , τὸ μυρίους προσαγαγεῖν οὐκ ἀρκεῖ εἰς σωτηρίαν , εἰ μὴ καὶ τὰ κατ ʼ ἐμαυτὸν παρασχοίμην ἄληπτα , πολλῷ μᾶλλον ὑμῖν . p. 202.