 26. ]  I then ( ἐγώ emphatic recalls the attention from the incidental exhortation, and reminiscence of the Christian state, to the main subject, his own abstinence from receiving, and its grounds.
	 τοίνυν , as distinguished from other particles which imply restriction of what has been generally said to some particular object, indicates the  dropping of minute or collateral points, and returning to the great necessary features of the subject , and this, as introducing some short and pithy determination or conclusion: see Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 348. E.g., Xen. Cyr. vi. 3. 17, τούτων μὲν τοίνυν ἅλις εἴη , ἃ δὲ καιρὸς ἡμῖν εἰδέναι , ταῦτα , ἔφη , διηγοῦ )  so run as ( οὕτως ὡς , see reff.)  not uncertainly (reff.: cf. also Polyb. iii. 54. 5, τῆς χιόνος ἄδηλον ποιούσης ἑκάστοις τὴν ἐπίβασιν : ‘  uncertainly ,’ i.e. without any sure grounds of contending or any fixed object for which to contend; both these are included. Chrysostom rightly brings it into subordination to the main subject, the participation with idolaters: τί δέ ἐστιν , οὐκ ἀδήλως ; πρὸς σκοπόν τινα βλέπων , φησίν , οὐκ εἰκῆ καὶ μάτην , καθάπερ ὑμεῖς , τί γὰρ ὑμῖν γίνεται πλέον ἀπὸ τοῦ εἰς εἰδωλεῖα εἰσιέναι , καὶ τὴν τελειότητα δῆθεν ἐκείνην ἐπιδείκνυσθαι ; οὐδέν . ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ ἐγὼ τοιοῦτος , ἀλλὰ πάντα ἅπερ ποιῶ , ὑπὲρ τῆς τῶν πλησίον σωτηρίας ποιῶ . κἂν τελειότητα ἐπιδείξωμαι , δι ʼ αὐτούς · κἂν συγκατάβασιν , δι ʼ αὐτούς · κἂν ὑπερβῶ Πέτρον ἐν τῷ μὴ λαμβάνειν , ἵνα μὴ σκανδαλισθῶσι · κἂν καταβῶ πλέον πάντων , περιτεμνόμενος καὶ ξυρώμενος , ἵνα μὴ ὑποσκελισθῶσι . Hom. xxiii. p. 201); so fight  I, as not striking the air (and not my adversary). The allusion is not to a σκιαμαχία or rehearsal of a fight with an  imaginary adversary, as Chrys. ( ἔχω γὰρ ὃν πλήξω ), Theophyl. al. m., but to a fight with a  real adversary (viz. here,  the body) in which the boxer vainly hits into the air, instead of striking his antagonist. So Entellus in the pugilistic combat, Æn. v. 446, ‘vires in ventum effudit,’ when Dares ‘ictum venientem a vertice velox Prævidit, celerique elapsus corpore cessit.’ See examples both of what is really meant, and of the σκιαμαχία , in Wetst.
	Obs., in both places οὐκ is used and not μή , as importing the matter of fact, and joined closely with the adverb in one case and the verb in the other.