 10. ]  Or (the other alternative being rejected)  on OUR  account ( δι ʼ ἡμᾶς , emphatic not on account of  men generally, but as Estius, “propter nos evangelii ministros:” cf. the ἡμεῖς of 1 Corinthians 9:11-12 , with which this ἡμᾶς is inseparably allied)  altogether ( τὸ πάντως προσθείς ,.… ἵνα μὴ συγχωρήσῃ μηδ ʼ ὁτιοῦν ἀντειπεῖν τῷ ἀκροατῇ . Chrys. p. 183)  does it ( ὁ νόμος : or perhaps ὁ θεός , but better the former, as above, τῷ θεῷ being only incidentally introduced as the confessed Author of the law, and ὁ νόμος remaining the subject of the sentence)  say (this)? (on our account):  for on our account it (viz. οὐ κημώσεις κ . τ . λ ., not, that which follows, q. esset γέγραπται )  was written: because (argumentative, as the  ground of ἐγράφη , not, as in some of my earlier editions, containing the  purpose of ἐγράφη ,  expressed in its practical result )  the plougher (not literal but spiritual, see below)  ought to plough in hope, and the thresher (  to thresh , see var. readd.)  in hope of partaking (of the crop). The words used in this sentence are evidently  spiritual , and  not literal . They are inseparably connected with δι ʼ ἡμᾶς which precedes them: and according to the common explanation of them as referring to a mere maxim of agricultural life, would have no force whatever. But spiritually taken, all coheres. “The command (not to muzzle, &c.) was written on account of  us (Christian teachers) because we ploughers (in the γεώργιον θεοῦ , ch. 1Co 3:9 ) ought to plough in hope, and we threshers (answering to the βοῦς ἀλοῶν ) ought to work in hope of (as the ox) having a share.” So Chrys. and Theophyl.: τουτέστιν , ὁ διδάσκαλος ὀφείλει ἀροτριᾷν , καὶ κοπιᾷν ἐπ ʼ ἐλπίδι ἀμοιβῆς κ . ἀντιμισθίας . So also Meyer and De Wette: but by far the greater part of interpreters (also Stanley) take it literally; understanding ἡμᾶς of mankind in general, and ὁ ἀροτριῶν and ὁ ἀλοῶν of  labourers in agriculture . No minute distinction must be sought between the ἀροτριῶν and the ἀλοῶν . The former is perhaps mentioned on account of the process answering to the breaking up the fallow ground of Heathenism: the latter on account of its occurrence in the precept.