 9 .] (It does say them):  for in the law of Moses it is written, Thou shalt not (on the fut. with an imperative meaning, ‘Thou shalt not,’ i.e. ‘This I expect of thee, that thou wilt not,’ common to all civilized languages, see Winer, edn. 6, § 43. 5. c; Kühner, § 446. 2)  muzzle (the reading φιμώσεις probably came in from the similar place, 1 Timothy 5:18 , and LXX. The verb κημόω occurs, with its substantive κημός , in Xen. de re equestri, 1 Corinthians 9:3 , ἀεὶ ὅποι ἂν ἀχαλίνωτον ἄγῃ , κημοῦν δεῖ · ὁ γὰρ κημὸς ἀναπνεῖν μὲν οὐ κωλύει , δάκνειν δὲ οὐκ εᾷ )  an ox while treading out the corn (in the  sense = ‘the ox that treadeth out:’ but strictly that would require τὸν β . τὸν ἀλοῶντα ) “ ἀλοᾷν dicuntur boves, quum grana ex aristis exterunt pedibus, qui mos Orientis, sed et Græciæ, ut ex Theophrasto et aliis discimus. Hic triturandi mos in Asia hodieque retinetur. Solent enim illarum regionum incolæ, postquam demessæ fruges sunt, non domum eas ex agris, more nostro, granis nondum excussis, in horrea convellere: sed in aream quandam sub dio comportare: deinde, sparsis in aream manipulis frugum, boves et bubalos immittunt, qui vel pedibus calcantes (see Mic 4:13 ), vel curruum quoddam genus trahentes super frumenta, ex aristis eliciunt grana.” Rosenmüller.  Is it for OXEN (generic)  that God is taking care ? We must not, as ordinarily, supply μόνον ,  only for oxen, and thus rationalize the sentence: the question imports, ‘In giving this command, are the  oxen , or those  for whom the law was given , its objects?’ And to such a question there can be but one answer. Every duty of  humanity has for its ultimate ground, not the mere welfare of the animal concerned, but its welfare  in that system of which MAN  is the head : and therefore  man’s welfare. The good done to man’s immortal spirit by acts of humanity and justice, infinitely outweighs the mere physical comfort of a brute which perishes. So Philo (de victimas offerentibus, § 1, vol. ii. p. 251) rightly explains the spirit of the law: οὐ γὰρ ὑπὲρ τῶν ἀλόγων ὁ νόμος , ἀλλ ʼ ὑπὲρ τῶν νοῦν κ . λόγον ἐχόντων · ὥστε οὐ τῶν θυομένων φροντίς ἐστιν , ἵνα μηδεμίαν ἔχοι λώβην , ἀλλὰ τῶν θυόντων , ἵνα περὶ μηδὲν πάθος κηραίνωσι .