 24. ] The allusion is primarily no doubt to the Isthmian games [‘celebrated under the shadow of the huge Corinthian citadel’ (Stanley)]; but this must not be pressed too closely: the foot-race was far too common an element in athletic contests, for any accurate knowledge of its predominance in some and its insignificance in others of the Grecian games to be here supposed. Still less must it be imagined that those games were to be celebrated in the year of the Epistle being written. The most that can with certainty be said, is that he alludes to a contest which, from the neighbourhood of the Isthmian games, was well known to his readers. See Stanley’s note: who, in following out illustrations of this kind, writes with a vivid graphic power peculiarly his own.
	 βραβεἶον ] Wetst. quotes from the Schol. on Pindar, Olymp. 1, λέγεται δὲ τὸ διδόμενον γέρας τῷ νικήσαντι ἀθλητῇ ἀπὸ μὲν τῶν διδόντων αὐτὸ βραβευτῶν βραβεῖον , ἀπὸ δὲ τῶν ἀθλούντων ἆθλον ,, and from the Etymol., βραβεῖον λέγεται ὁ παρὰ τῶν βραβευτῶν διδόμενος στέφανος τῷ νικῶντι .
	 οὕτως τρ  . ]  Thus (after this manner viz. as they who run all,  each endeavouring to be the one who shall receive the prize : not,  as the one who receives it (Meyer, De Wette), for the others strive as earnestly as he: still less must we take ἵνα καταλάβητε for ὡς καταλαβεῖν , which is barely allowable, and here would not suit the sense; the οὕτως being particularized presently by one point of the athletes’ preparation being specially alleged for their imitation)  run (not καὶ ὑμεῖς τρέχετε , because the evident analogy between the race and the Christian conflict is taken for granted. If, as Dr. Peile imagines, a contrast had been intended, between the stadium where  one only can receive the prize, and the Christian race where  all may, it must have stood οὕτως δὲ ὑμεῖς τρέχετε , ὡς καὶ ( πάντας ?) καταλαβεῖν . But such contrast would destroy the sense),  in order that ye may fully obtain (the prize of your calling, see Philippians 3:14 . On λαμβάνω and  κατα λαμβάνω see note, ch. 1Co 7:31 ).