1. Paul—He does not add "an
	apostle," because in their case, as in that of the Philippians
	(see on  :-), his apostolic
	authority needs not any substantiation. He writes familiarly as to
	faithful friends, not but that his apostleship was recognized among
	them (1 Thessalonians 2:6). On the other
	hand, in writing to the Galatians, among whom some had called in
	question his apostleship, he strongly asserts it in the
	superscription. An undesigned propriety in the Epistles, evincing
	genuineness. 
	Silvanus—a "chief
	man among the brethren" (1 Thessalonians 2:6- :), and a "prophet" (1 Thessalonians 2:6- :), and one of the deputies who carried the decree of the
	Jerusalem council to Antioch. His age and position cause him to be
	placed before "Timothy," then a youth (Acts 16:1;
	1 Timothy 4:12). Silvanus (the Gentile
	expanded form of "Silas") is called in 1 Timothy 4:12- :, "a faithful brother" (compare 1 Timothy 4:12- :). They both aided in planting the Thessalonian Church, and
	are therefore included in the address. This, the first of Paul's
	Epistles, as being written before various evils crept into the
	churches, is without the censures found in other Epistles. So
	realizing was their Christian faith, that they were able hourly to
	look for the Lord Jesus. 
	unto the church—not
	merely as in the Epistles to Romans, Ephesians, Colossians,
	Philippians, "to the saints," or "the faithful at
	Thessalonica." Though as yet they do not seem to have had the
	final Church organization under permanent "bishops"
	and deacons, which appears in the later Epistles (See on 1 Timothy 4:12- :; 1 Timothy 4:12- : and 1 Timothy 4:12- :). Yet he designates them by the honorable term "Church,"
	implying their status as not merely isolated believers, but a
	corporate body with spiritual rulers (1 Thessalonians 5:12;
	2 Corinthians 1:1; Galatians 1:2).
	in—implying vital
	union.
God the Father—This
	marks that they were no longer heathen.
the Lord Jesus Christ—This
	marks that they were not Jews, but Christians. 
	Grace be unto you, and
	peace—that ye may have in God that favor and peace which
	men withhold [ANSELM].
	This is the salutation in all the Epistles of Paul, except the three
	pastoral ones, which have "grace, mercy, and peace." Some
	of the oldest manuscripts support, others omit the clause following,
	"from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ." It may
	have crept in from 1 Corinthians 1:3;
	2 Corinthians 1:2.