 13. ]  Superiority of Love to the other great Christian graces . Some gifts shall pass away but  these three great graces  shall remain for ever FAITH, HOPE, LOVE.  This is necessarily the meaning , and  not that love alone shall abide for ever, and the other two merely during the present state . For (1)  νυνὶ δέ is not ‘but  now ,’ i.e. in this present state, as opposed to what has just been said 1 Corinthians 13:12 , but ‘  rebus sic stantibus,’ ‘quæ cum ita sint ,’ and the inference from it just the contrary of that implied in the other rendering: viz. that  since tongues, prophesyings, knowledge, will all pass away , we have left  but THESE THREE. (2) From the position of  μένει , it has a  strong emphasis , and carries the weight of the clause, as opposed to the previously-mentioned things which καταργηθήσεται . (3) From τὰ τρία ταῦτα , a  pre-eminence is obviously pointed out for  faith, hope, and love , distinct from aught which has gone before. This being the plain sense of the words, how can  faith and  hope be said to endure to eternity, when faith will be lost in sight, and hope in fruition? With  hope , there is but little difficulty:  but one place has inscribed over its portals, “Lasciate ogni speranza, voi ch’ entrate.” New glories, new treasures of knowledge and of love, will ever raise, and nourish, blessed hopes of yet more and higher, hopes which no disappointment will blight. But how can  faith abide, faith, which is the evidence of things  not seen, where all things once believed are seen? In the form of  holy confidence and trust , faith will abide even there. The stay of all conscious created being, human or angelic, is  dependence on God ; and where the faith which  comes by hearing is out of the question, the faith which  consists in trusting will be the only faith possible. Thus  Hope will remain, as anticipation certain to be fulfilled:  Faith will remain, as trust, entire and undoubting: the anchor of the soul, even where no tempest comes. See this expanded and further vindicated in my Quebec Chapel Sermons, Vol. i. Serm. viii.
	 μείζων τ  . ]  The greater of these , not ‘  greater than these.’ “The greater,” as De Wette beautifully remarks, “because it contains in itself the root of the other two: we believe only one whom we love, we hope only that which we love.” And thus the forms of Faith and Hope which will there for ever subsist, will be sustained in, and overshadowed by, the all-pervading superior element of eternal Love.