 12. ]  Contrast between our present sight and knowledge, and those in the future perfect state .
	 γάρ justifies the analogy of the former verse: for it is just so with  us .
	 ἄρτι , in our  present condition , until the Lord’s coming.
	 δι  ʼ   ἐσόπτρου ,  through a mirror : i.e. as Billroth, Meyer, and De W.  according to the popular illusion , which regards the object, really seen  behind the mirror, as seen through it. We must think, not of our mirrors of glass, but of the imperfectly-reflecting metallic mirrors of the ancients. The idea of the  lapis specularis , placed in windows, being meant, adopted by Schöttgen from Rabbinical usage (e.g. ‘omnes prophetæ viderunt per specular obscurum, et Moses doctor noster vidit per specular lucidum’(Wetst.): and see numerous examples in his Hor. Hebr. i. 646 ff.), and followed by many Commentators, is inconsistent with the usage of  ἕσοπτρον , which (Meyer) is  always a MIRROR (Pind. Nem, vii. 20: Anacr. xi. 2; xx. 5. Lucian, Amor. xliv. 48: see also reff.): the window of  lapis specularis being  δί οπτρα (Strabo, xii. 2, p. 540).
	 ἐν αἰνίγματι ] There is a reference to ref. Num., στόμα κατὰ στόμα λαλήσω αὐπῷ ἐν εἴδει , καὶ οὐ δι ʼ αἰνιγμάτων . Many take the words adverbially, ‘  enigmatically ’ (so E. V., ‘  darkly ’ [and so we are almost obliged to do in an English version]): but this cannot be [the strict rendering], because αἴνιγμα is objective, not subjective: ‘  a dark hint given by words .’ I agree with Meyer, notwithstanding De Wette’s strong objections, in believing ἐν αἰνίγματι to mean ‘  in a dark discourse ,’ viz.  the revealed word , which is  dark , by comparison with our future  perfect knowledge . So also Luther:  in einem bunteln Wort . Thus, as M [61] observes,  ἐν will denote, as ἐν τῷ κρυπτῷ , Matthew 6:4 , the  local department, in which the βλέπειν takes place.
	 [61]. Marcion, 130; fragments in Epiph. (Mcion-e) and Tert. (Mcion-t)
	 τότε = ὅταν ἔλθῃ τὸ τέλειον , 1 Corinthians 13:10 ; ‘  at the Lord’s coming, and after .’
	 πρόσωπ  .   πρὸς πρόσωπ .]  Face towards face , i.e. by immediate intuition: so Heb. in reff.
	 I shall thoroughly know even as I was (during this life: he places himself  in that state , and uses the aor. as of a thing gone by)  thoroughly known . In this life we  are known by God, rather than  know Him: see Galatians 4:9 ; ch. 1 Corinthians 8:3 , note, and cf. Philo de Cherub. 32, vol. i. p. 159, νῦν ὅτε ζῶμεν , κρατούμεθα μᾶλλον ἢ ἄρχομεν , κ . γνωριζόμεθα μᾶλλον ἢ γνωρίζομεν . The sense of this aor. ἐπεγνώσθην must not be forced, as in E. V., to a present, or to a future, as by some Commentators.