 1. ]  ἐὰν λαλῶ supposes a case which never has been exemplified:  even if I can speak , or as E. V.  though I speak . So Isocr. eop. p. 142, ἀλλ ʼ ἐὰν μὲν κατορθώσωσι περί τινας πράξεις , ἢ διὰ τύχην , ἢ δι ʼ ἀνδρὸς ἀρετήν , μικρὸν διαλιπόντες πάλιν εἰς τὰς αὐτὰς ἀπορίας κατέστησαν . See Matthiæ, § 523. 1.
	 ταῖς γλώσσαις τ  .   ἀνθρ  .   κ  .   τ  .   ἀγγ .] ὅρα πόθεν ἄρχεται · πρῶτον ἀπὸ τοῦ θαυμαστοῦ δοκοῦντος εἶναι παρ ʼ αὐτοῖς καὶ μεγάλου , τῶν γλωσσῶν . Chrys. p. 289. It is hardly possible to understand γλῶσσαι here of any thing but  articulate forms of speech : i.e.  languages . Meyer and De W., who deny that the speaking with tongues was ever in an articulate language, vehemently impugn such a rendering here. But their own rendering is to me undistinguishable from it, as far as the  sense is concerned: ‘  tongues speaking in all possible ways ,’ surely, in the common acceptation of words, must mean,  tongues speaking all possible languages , and the use of the word indifferently for  the tongue and  a tongue (a language), when this very gift is spoken of, e.g. Acts 2:4 , compared with 11, and here as compared with ch. 1 Corinthians 12:30 , is one of the strongest proofs that λαλεῖν γλώσσαις is to speak in  languages : see note on Acts 2:4 .
	 Of men (generic)  and of angels (generic): i.e. ‘of  all men and  all angels,’ whatever those tongues may be.
	 ἀγάπην ] LOVE  to all , in its  most general sense , as throughout the chapter: no distinction being here drawn between love to  man and to  God , but the  general principle dealt with,  from which both spring . The ‘  Caritas ’ of the Latin versions has occasioned the rendering ‘  charity ’ in most modern versions. Of this word Stanley remarks, “the limitation of its meaning on the one hand to mere almsgiving, or on the other to mere toleration, has so much narrowed its sense, that the simpler term ‘Love,’ though too general exactly to meet the case, is now the best equivalent.”
	 γέγονα ]  I am become; the case supposed is regarded as present: ‘if  I can speak … I am become .’
	 χαλκ  .   ἠχ .] Brass, of any kind, struck and yielding a sound: i.e. ἀναίσθητόν τι κ . ἄψυχον . Chrys, No particular musical instrument seems to be meant.
	 κύμβαλον ] κύμβαλα ἦν πλατέα κ . μεγάλα χάλκεα , Jos. Antt. vii. 12. 3. The Heb. name is most expressive, צֶלְצְלִים . There appear to have been two sorts, mentioned in Psalms 150:5 , צִלְצִלֵי שֶׁמַע and צ״ תרוּעָה , rendered by the LXX, κυμβάλοις εὐήχοις and κ . ἀλαλαγμοῦ , as here. Winer thinks the former answered to our  castagnettes , the latter to our  cymbals . The larger kind would be here meant. See Winer, Realw. art. ‘Becken.’
	 ἀλαλάζον ] see Psalms 150:0 cited above.