Tychicus. A comparatively uncommon name in N. T., but found in inscriptions of Asia Minor and on Asiatic coins. He is mentioned Acts 20:4, Acts 20:5; Ephesians 6:21; Colossians 4:7. In Acts 20:4 he is described as a native of proconsular Asia. 2 Timothy 4:18The cloak [φελονην] . 145 Hesychius, however, explains as a glwssokomon, originally a case for keeping the mouthpieces of wind - instruments; thence, generally, Glwssokomon is the word for the disciples ' treasury - chest (bag, Jas 12:6). Also a box for transporting or preserving parchments. Specimens have been found at Herculaneum. In LXX, 2 Samuel 6:11, the ark of the Lord (but the reading varies) : in 2 Chronicles 24:8, the chest placed by order of Joash at the gate of the temple, to receive contributions for its repair. Joseph. Ant 6:1, 2, of the coffer into which the jewels of gold were put for a trespass - offering when the ark was sent back (1 Samuel 6:8). Phrynicus 146 defines it as "a receptacle for books, clothes, silver, or anything else." Failonhv or fainolhv a wrapper of parchments, was translated figuratively in Latin by toga or paenula "a cloak," sometimes of leather; also the wrapping which a shopkeeper put round fish or olives; also the parchment cover for papyrus rolls. Accordingly it is claimed that Timothy is here bidden to bring, not a cloak, but a roll - case. So the Syriac Version. There seems to be no sufficient reason for abandoning the translation of A. V. Carpus. Not mentioned elsewhere. The books [βιβλια] . Biblov or, biblion was the term most widely used by the Greeks for book or volume. The usual derivation is from, bublov the Egyptian papyrus. Comp. Lat. liber "the inner bark of a tree," also "book." 147 Pliny (Nat. Hist. 13 11) says that the pith of the papyrus plant was cut in slices and laid in rows, over which other rows were laid crosswise, and the whole was massed by pressure. The name for the blank papyrus sheets was carthv [χηαρτα] paper. See on 2 John 1:12. Timothy is here requested to bring some papyrus documents which are distinguished from the vellum manuscripts. Parchments [μεμβρανας] . N. T. o. Manuscripts written on parchment or vellum. Strictly speaking, veilum was made from the skins of young calves and the common parchment from those of sheep, goats, or antelopes. It was a more durable material than papyrus and more expensive. The Latin name was membrana, and also pergamena or pergamina, from Pergamum in Mysia where it was extensively manufactured, and from which it was introduced into Greece. As to the character and contents of these documents which Timothy is requested to bring, we are of course entirely ignorant. 148