6. Here begins the portion
	relating to the Gentile world, as the former portion related to
	Israel. Before the end the Gospel is to be preached for a
	WITNESS unto all
	nations: not that all nations shall be converted, but all nations
	shall have had the opportunity given them of deciding whether they
	will be for, or against, Christ. Those thus preached to are
	"they that dwell (so A, Coptic, and Syriac read.
	But B, C, ORIGEN, Vulgate,
	CYPRIAN, 312, read, 'SIT,'
	compare Matthew 4:16; Luke 1:79,
	having their settled home) on the earth," being of earth
	earthy: this last season of grace is given them, if yet they may
	repent, before "judgment" (Luke 1:79- :) descends: if not, they will be left without excuse, as the
	world which resisted the preaching of Noah in the the hundred twenty
	years "while the long-suffering of God waited." "So
	also the prophets gave the people a last opportunity of repentance
	before the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem, and our Lord and His
	apostles before the Roman destruction of the holy city"
	[AUBERLEN]. The Greek
	for "unto" (epi, in A and C) means literally,
	"upon," or "over," or "in respect to"
	(Mark 9:12; Hebrews 7:13).
	So also "TO every
	nation" (Greek, "epi," in A, B, C,
	Vulgate, Syriac, ORIGEN,
	ANDREAS, CYPRIAN,
	and PRIMASIUS). This,
	perhaps, implies that the Gospel, though diffused over the
	globe, shall not come savingly unto any save the elect. The
	world is not to be evangelized till Christ shall come: meanwhile,
	God's purpose is "to take out of the Gentiles a people for His
	name," to be witnesses of the effectual working of His Spirit
	during the counter-working of "the mystery of iniquity." 
	everlasting gospel—the
	Gospel which announces the glad tidings of the everlasting
	kingdom of Christ, about to ensue immediately after the "judgment"
	on Antichrist, announced as imminent in Hebrews 7:13- :. As the former angel "flying through the midst of
	heaven" (Revelation 8:13)
	announced "woe," so this angel "flying in the midst of
	heaven" announced joy. The three angels making this last
	proclamation of the Gospel, the fall of Babylon (Revelation 8:13- :), the harlot, and the judgment on the beast worshippers (Revelation 8:13- :), the voice from heaven respecting the blessed dead (Revelation 8:13- :), the vision of the Son of man on the cloud (Revelation 8:13- :), the harvest (Revelation 8:13- :), and the vintage (Revelation 8:13- :), form the compendious summary, amplified in detail in the
	rest of the book.