13. Encouragement to cheer those
	persecuted under the beast. 
	Write—to put it on
	record for ever. 
	Blessed—in resting
	from their toils, and, in the case of the saints just before
	alluded to as persecuted by the beast, in resting from
	persecutions. Their full blessedness is now "from
	henceforth," that is, FROM
	THIS TIME, when the judgment on the beast and the harvest
	gatherings of the elect are imminent. The time so earnestly longed
	for by former martyrs is now all but come; the full number of their
	fellow servants is on the verge of completion; they have no longer to
	"rest (the same Greek as here, anapausis)
	yet for a little season," their eternal rest, or
	cessation from toils ( :-; Greek, "anesis," relaxation after
	hardships. Hebrews 4:9; Hebrews 4:10,
	sabbatism of rest; and Greek, "catapausis,"
	akin to the Greek here) is close at hand now. They are blessed
	in being about to sit down to the marriage supper of the Lamb
	(Revelation 19:9), and in having part
	in the first resurrection (Revelation 19:9- :), and in having right to the tree of life (Revelation 19:9- :). In Revelation 19:9- : follows the explanation of why they are pronounced
	"blessed" now in particular, namely, the Son of man on
	the cloud is just coming to gather them in as the harvest
	ripe for garner. 
	Yea, saith the Spirit—The
	words of God the Father (the "voice from heaven") are
	echoed back and confirmed by the Spirit (speaking in the Word,
	Revelation 2:7; Revelation 22:17;
	and in the saints, 2 Corinthians 5:5;
	1 Peter 4:14). All "God's
	promises in Christ are yea" (1 Peter 4:14- :). 
	unto me—omitted in A,
	B, C, Vulgate, Syriac, and Coptic.
that they may—The Greek
	includes also the idea, They are blessed, in that they SHALL
	rest from their toils (so the Greek). 
	and—So B and ANDREAS
	read. But A, C, Vulgate, and Syriac read "for."
	They rest from their toils because their time for toil is
	past; they enter on the blessed rest because of their faith
	evinced by their works which, therefore, "follow WITH
	(so the Greek) them." Their works are specified
	because respect is had to the coming judgment, wherein every man
	shall be "judged according to his works." His works do not
	go before the believer, nor even go by his side, but follow
	him at the same time that they go with him as a proof that he
	is Christ's.