 22. ] The Commentators vie with each other in admiration of this truly wonderful speech of the great Apostle. Chrysostom: τοῦτό ἐστι τὸ εἰρημένον τῷ ἀποστόλῳ , ἐγενόμην τοῖς ἀνόμοις ὡς ἄνομος , ἵνα κερδήσω ἀνόμους · Ἀθηναίοις γὰρ δημηγορῶν , οὐκ ἀπὸ προφητῶν οὐδὲ ἀπὸ τοῦ νόμου διελέχθη , ἀλλ ʼ ἁπὸ βωμοῦ τὴν παραίνεσιν ἐποιήσατο · ἀπὸ τῶν οἰκείων αὐτοὺς ἐχειρώσατο δογμάτων · διὸ οὐκ εἶπεν “ ἄνομος ,” ἀλλ ʼ “ ὡς ἄνομος .” ‘The oration of Paul before this assembly is a living proof of his apostolic wisdom and eloquence: we see here how he, according to his own words, could become a Gentile to the Gentiles, to win the Gentiles to the Gospel,’ Neander, Pfl. u. L., p. 317. And Stier very properly remarks (Reden der Apostel, ii. 131), ‘It was given to the Apostle in this hour, what he should speak; this is plainly to be seen in the following discourse, which we might weary ourselves with praising and admiring in various ways; but far better than all so-called praise from our poor tongues is the humble recognition, that the Holy Ghost, the spirit of Jesus, has here spoken by the Apostle, and therefore it is that we have in his discourse a masterpiece of apostolic wisdom.’ The same Commentator gives the substance of the speech thus: ‘  He who is (by your own involuntary confession)  unknown to you Athenians (religious though you are),  and yet (again, by your own confession)  able to be known, the all-sufficing Creator of the world, Preserver of all creatures, and Governor of mankind, now commandeth all men (by me His minister)  to repent, that they may know Him, and to believe in the Man whom He hath raised from the dead, that they may stand in the judgment, which He hath committed to Him .’
	 ἄνδρες Ἀθ  . ] The regular and dignified appellation familiar to them as used by all their orators, of whose works Paul could hardly be altogether ignorant.
	 κατὰ π  ., in every point of view : see reff.
	 δεισιδαιμονεστέρους ]  carrying your religious reverence very far : an instance of which follows, in that they, not content with worshipping  named and  known gods, worshipped even an  unknown one.  Blame is neither expressed, nor even implied: but their  exceeding veneration for religion laid hold of as a  fact , on which Paul, with exquisite skill, engrafts his proof that he is introducing  no new gods, but enlightening them with regard to an object of worship on which they were confessedly in the dark. So Chrysost.:  δεις  . , τουτέστιν εὐλαβεστέρους .… ὥσπερ ἐγκωμιάζειν αὐτοὺς δοκεῖ , οὐδὲν βαρὺ λέγων .
	To understand this word as E. V. ‘  too superstitious ’ (‘superstitiosiores,’ Vulg., so Luther, Calov., Wolf), is to miss the fine and delicate tact of the speech, by which he at once parries the charge against him, and in doing so introduces the great Truth which he came to preach.
	The word itself has both senses: δεισιδαίμων , ὁ εὐσεβής , Hesych [86] : ἐν τῷ τοιούτῳ (in battle) γὰρ δὴ οἱ δεισιδαίμονες ἧττον τοὺς ἀνθρώπους φοβοῦνται , Xen. Cyrop. iii. 3. 58: and on the other hand, Theophrast. Char. 16, explains δεισιδαιμονία by δειλία πρὸς τὸ δαιμόνιον : and Pollux, εὐσεβής , θεῶν ἐπιμελής , ὁ δὲ ὑπερτιμῶν , δεισιδαίμων καὶ δεισίθεος .
	 [86] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	The character thus given of the Athenians is confirmed by Greek writers: thus, Pausan. i. 24. 3, Ἀθηναίοις περισσότερόν τι ἢ τοῖς ἄλλοις ἐς τὰ θεῖά ἐστι σπονδῆς . See other instances in Wetstein. Josephus, c. Apion. ii. 11, calls them εὐσεβεστάτους τῶν Ἑλλήνων .