 23. ]  ἀναθ  ., looking over , ‘reconnoitring.’
	 σεβάσμ  . ] not, as E. V., ‘  devotions :’ but  objects of religious worship , temples, altars, statues, &c.: see reff.
	 καί ] over and above the many altars to your own and foreign deities. πολλὰ γὰρ τῶν ξενικῶν ἱερῶν παρεδέξαντο , … καὶ δὴ καὶ τὰ Θρᾲκια καὶ τὰ Φρύγια , Strabo, x. p. 472.
	 ἀγνώστῳ θεῷ ]  To an (not,  the )  unknown God .
	That this was the veritable inscription on the altars (not as Jerome on Titus 1:12 , vol. vii. p. 707, ‘Inscriptio aræ non ita erat ut Paulus asseruit:  ignoto Deo : sed ita: Diis Asiæ et Europæ et Africæ, Diis ignotis et peregrinis. Verum quia Paulus non pluribus Diis ignotis indigebat sed uno tantum ignoto Deo, singulari verbo usus est’), the words ᾧ ἐπεγέγραπτο ,  on which had been inscribed , are decisive. Meyer well remarks, that the historical fact would be abundantly established from this passage, being Paul’s testimony of what he  himself had seen , and spoken  to the Athenian people. But we have our narrative confirmed by the following: Paus. i. 1. 4, ἐνταῦθαι καὶ βωμοὶ θεῶν τε ὀνομαζομένων ἀγνώστων , καὶ ἡρώων καὶ παίδων τῶν Θήσεως καὶ Φαλήρου : Philostratus, Vita Apollon. vi. 3, σωφρονέστερον τὸ περὶ πάντων θεῶν εὖ λέγειν , καὶ ταῦτα Ἀθήνῃσιν , οὗ καὶ ἀγνώστων δαιμόνων βωμοὶ ἵδρυνται . On which Winer well says, that it by no means follows that each altar had the inscription in the plural, θεοῖς ἀγνώστοις , but more naturally that the plural has been used to suit βωμοί , and that the inscription on each was as here. The commonly cited passage of (Pseudo-) Lucian, Philopatr. 9, and 29, νὴ τὸν ἄγνωστον ἐν Ἀθήναις , is no testimony, the dialogue being spurious, and the reference to our text evident. The origin of such altars has been variously explained: Diog. Laert. (vita Epimenid.) says, that Epimenides, on occasion of a plague, advised the Athenians to let go white and black sheep from the Areiopagus, and on the spots where they lay down to erect altars  τῷ προσήκοντι θεῷ  : ὅθεν , he adds, ἔτι καὶ νῦν ἐστιν εὑρεῖν κατὰ τοὺς δήμους τῶν Ἀθηναίων βωμοὺς ἀνωνύμους . Eichhorn conjectures that they may have been ancient altars erected before the use of writing, and thus inscribed in after-times. But I should rather suppose that the above anecdote furnishes the key to the practice: that on the occurrence of any remarkable calamity or deliverance not assignable to the conventionally-received agency of any of the recognized deities,  an unknown God was reverenced as their author. That the  God of the Jews was meant (as supposed by Calov., Wolf, al.) is very improbable.
	‘Quod ignotis Diis altare erexerant, signum erat nihil ipsos tenere certi: habebant quidem ingentem Deorum turbam … sed dum illis permiscent ignotos Deos, hoc ipso fatentur nihil de vera Divinitate se habere compertum … Inde apparet inquietudo, quod se nondum defunctos fatentur, ubi popularibus Diis litarunt,’ &c. Calvin.
	 ὃ  …   τοῦτο ] The ὅν and τοῦτον of the rec. have probably been alterations from reverential motives. The neuters give surely the deeper, and the more appropriate sense. For Paul does not  identify the true God with the dedication of, or worship at, the altar mentioned: but speaks of  the Divinity ( τὸ θεῖον ) of whom they, by this inscription, confessed themselves ignorant. (It may however be a warning of the uncertainty of  à priori internal evidence for readings, that De Wette and Meyer suppose the masculines to have been altered  to produce this very sense , and  to avoid the inference that Paul identified the unknown God with the Creator .) But even a more serious objection lies against the masculines. The sentiment would thus be in direct contradiction to the assertion of Paul himself, 1 Corinthians 10:20 , ἃ θύουσιν ,  δαιμονίοις καὶ οὐ θεῷ θύουσιν . Compare also our Lord’s words, John 4:22 , ὑμεῖς προσκυνεῖτε ὃ οὐκ οἴδατε .
	In  εὐσεβεῖτε , we have another confirmation of the sense above insisted on for δεισιδαιμονεστέρους . He wishes to commend their reverential spirit, while he shews its misdirection. An important lesson for all who have controversies with Paganism and Romanism.
	 καταγγ. ] (See above, καταγγελεύς Acts 17:18 .)  I am declaring, making manifest , to you. ὑμεῖς με προελάβετε, φησίν· ἔφθασε ὑμῶν ἡ θεραπεία τὸ ἐμὸν κήρυγμα . Chrys.