 18.   Ἐπικουρείων ] The Epicurean philosophy was antagonistic to the gospel, as holding the atomic theory in opposition to the creation of matter, the disconnexion of the Divinity from the world and its affairs, in opposition to the idea of a ruling Providence, and the indissoluble union, and annihilation together, of soul and body, as opposed to the hope of eternal life, and indeed to all spiritual religion whatever. The Epicureans were the materialists of the ancient world. The common idea attached to Epicureanism must be discarded in our estimate of the persons mentioned in our text. The summum bonum of the real Epicureans, far from being a degraded and sensual pleasure, was ἀταοαξία of mind, based upon φρόνησις , perhaps the best estimate of the highest good formed in the heathen world; and their ethics were exceedingly strict. But the abuse to which such a doctrine was evidently liable, gave rise to a pseudo-Epicureanism, which has generally passed current for the real, and which amply illustrated the truth, that ‘corruptio optimi est pessima.’ For their chimerical ἀταραξία , Paul offered them τὴν εἰρήνην τὴν ὑπερέχουσαν πάντα νοῦν , Philippians 4:7 .
	 Στοϊκῶν ] So named from the στοὰ ποικίλη (see above), founded by Zeno [84] of Cittium in the fourth century B.C., but perhaps more properly by Cleanthes and Chrysippus in the third century B.C. Their philosophy, while it approached the truth in holding one supreme Governor of all, compromised it, in allowing of any and all ways of conceiving and worshipping Him (see below, Act 17:24-25 ), and contravened it, in its pantheistic belief that all souls were emanations of Him. In  spirit it was directly opposed to the gospel, holding the independence of man on any being but himself, together with the subjection of God and man alike to the stern laws of an inevitable fate. On the existence of the soul after death their ideas were various: some holding that all souls endure to the conflagration of all things, others confining this to the souls of good men, and others believing all souls to be reabsorbed into the Divinity. By these tenets they would obviously be placed in antagonism to the doctrines of a Saviour of the world and the resurrection, and to placing the summum bonum of man in abundance of that grace which ἐν ἀσθενείᾳ τελεῖται , 2 Corinthians 12:9 .
	 [84] Zeno,  Bp. of Verona , 362 380
	 τινες ἔλεγον  .…   οἱ δέ ] These are not to be taken as belonging the one to the Epicureans, the other to the Stoics, but rather as describing two classes, common perhaps to both schools, the one of which despised him and his sayings, and the other were disposed to take a more serious view of the matter, and charge him with bringing in new deities.
	 σπερμολόγος ] σπερμολόγος εἶδος ἐστὶν ὀρνέου λωβωμένου τὰ σπέρματα · ἐξ οὗ οἱ Ἀθηναῖοι σπερμολόγους ἐκάλουν τοὺς περὶ ἐμπόρια καὶ ἀγορὰς διατρίβοντας , διὰ τὸ ἀναλέγεσθαι τὰ ἐκ τῶν φορτίων ἀποῤῥέοντα , καὶ διαζῇν ἐκ τούτων . Eustath [85] ad Odyss. ε . 490, where Damm observes, σπερμολογεῖν , ‘verbum recentiorum; dicitur ἐπὶ τῶν ἀλαζονευομένων ἀμεθόδως ἐπὶ μαθήμασιν ἐις τινῶν παρακουσμάτων , si quis quid arripuit forte ex disciplinis, eoque se imperite jactat:’  babbler is the very best English word: as both signifying  one who talks fluently to no purpose , and hinting also that his talk is  not his own .
	 [85] Eustathius, Bp. of Antioch, 323
	 ξένων δαιμ  . ] ἀδικεῖ Σωκράτης .… καινὰ δαιμόνια εἰσφέρων , was one of the charges on which Athens put to death her wisest son.
	δαιμόνια is not plural for singular, as Kuin.: nor merely, though this is somewhat more probable, marks the category, as Meyer: nor can it refer (Chrys., Theophyl., Œcum., Hammond, Heinrichs) to Jesus  and the ἀνάστασις , mistaken for a goddess (a sufficient answer to which strange idea is, that  ἡ ἀνάστασις is merely a  statement in the mouths of others , of the doctrine taught by Paul, which he would hardly ever, if ever, specify by  this word , compare Act 17:31-32 ): but alludes (as De Wette) to  the true God , the God of the Jews,  and Jesus Christ His Son: the Creator of the world ( Act 17:24 ), and the Man whom He hath appointed to judge it, Acts 17:31 .
	 καταγγελεύς ] Compare Acts 17:23 , end; which is an express answer to this charge.