That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel, etc. [ειδεναι εκαστον υμων το εαυτου σκευος κτασθαι] . The interpretation of vv. 3 - 6 usually varies between two explanations : 1. making the whole passage refer to fornication and adultery : 2. limiting this reference to vv. 3 - 5, and making ver. 6 refer to honesty in business. Both are wrong. The entire passage exhibits two groups of parallel clauses; the one concerning sexual, and the other business relations. Thus : 1. Abstain from fornication : deal honorably with your wives. 2. Pursue your business as holy men, not with covetous greed as the heathen : do not overreach or defraud. A comma should be placed after skeuov vessel, and ktasqai procure or acquire, instead of being made dependent on eiJudenai know, should begin a new clause. Render, that every one of you treat his own wife honorably. EiJudenai is used Hebraistically in the sense of have a care for, regard, as ch. 5 12, "Know them that labor," etc. : recognize their claim to respect, and hold them in due regard. Comp. Genesis 39:6 : Potiphar oujk hdei twn kaq' auJton ouJuden "gave himself no concern about anything that he had." 1 Samuel 2:12 : the sons of Eli oujk eijdotev ton kurion "paying no respect to the Lord." Exodus 1:8 : Another King arose ov oujk hdei ton Iwshf "who did not recognize or regard Joseph" : did not remember his services and the respect in which he had been held. Skeuov is sometimes explained as body, for which there is no evidence in N. T. In 2 Corinthians 4:7 the sense is metaphorical. Neither in LXX nor Class. does it mean body. In LXX very often of the sacred vessels of worship : sometimes, as in Class., of the accoutrements of war. In N. T. occasionally, both in singular and plural, in the general sense of appliances, furniture, tackling. See Matthew 12:29; Luke 17:31; Acts 27:17; Hebrews 9:21. For the meaning vessel, see Luke 8:16; John 19:20; 2 Corinthians 4:7; Revelation 2:27. Here, metaphorically, for wife; comp. 1 Peter 3:7. It was used for wife in the coarse and literal sense by Rabbinical writers. The admonition aptly follows the charge to abstain from fornication. On the contrary, let each one treat honorably his own wife. The common interpretation is, "as a safeguard against fornication let every one know how to procure his own wife." It is quite safe to say that such a sentence could never have proceeded from Paul. He never would have offset a charge to abstain from fornication with a counsel to be well informed in the way of obtaining a wife. When he does touch this subject, as he does in 1 Corinthians 7:2, he says, very simply, " to avoid fornication let every man have [εχετω] his own wife "; not, know how to get one. EiJudenai know, as usually interpreted, is both superfluous and absurd. Besides, the question was not of procuring a wife, but of living honorably and decently with her, paying her the respect which was her right, and therefore avoiding illicit connections. That he pursue his gain - getting in sanctification and honor [κτασθαι εν αγιασμω και τιμη] . As a holy and honorable man. The exhortation now turns to business relations. Ktasqai cannot mean possess, as A. V. That would require the perfect tense. It means procure, acquire. Often buy, as Acts 17:28; LXX, Genesis 33:19; Genesis 39:1; Genesis 47:19; Genesis 49:30; Joshua 24:33; absolutely, Ezekiel 7:12, Ezekiel 7:13.