I would not have you to be ignorant [ου θελομεν υμας αγνοειν] . The Greek is, we would not, etc. A formula often used by Paul to call special attention to what he is about to say. See Romans 1:13; Romans 11:25; 1 Corinthians 2:1, etc. He employs several similar expressions for the same purpose, as qelw uJmav eiJudenai I wish you to know (1 Corinthians 11:3; Colossians 2:1) : ginwrizw uJmin I declare unto you (1 Corinthians 14:1; 2 Corinthians 8:1; Galatians 1:11) : ginwskein uJmav boulomai I would have you know (Philippians 1:12). Them which are asleep [των κοιμωμενων] . Or, who are sleeping. See on Acts 7:60; 2 Peter 3:4, and comp. 1 Corinthians 7:39; 1 Corinthians 11:30; 1 Corinthians 14:6, 1 Corinthians 14:18, 1 Corinthians 14:20, 1 Corinthians 14:51; John 11:11, etc. The dead members of the Thessalonian church. Ye sorrow [λυπησθε] . Opinions differ as to the possible ground of this sorrow. According to some, the Thessalonians supposed that eternal life belonged only to such as should be found alive at the parousia, and therefore that those already dead would not share the blessings of the second advent. Others, assuming an interval between the advent and the general resurrection, think that the Thessalonians were anxious lest their brethren who died before the advent would be raised only at the general resurrection, and therefore would not share the blessings of communion with the Lord during the millennial reign. It is impossible to decide the question from Paul 's words, since he does not argue, but only consoles. The value of his consolation does not depend upon the answer to the question whether the departed saints shall first be raised up at the general resurrection, or at a previons resurrection of believers only. The Thessalonians were plainly distressed at the thought of separation from their departed brethren, and had partially lost sight of the elements of the Christian hope - reunion with them and fellowship with the Lord. These elements Paul emphasises in his answer. The resurrection of Jesus involves the resurrection of believers. The living and the dead Christians shall alike be with the Lord. Others [οι λοιποι] . More correctly, the rest. Paul makes a sharp distinction between Christians, and all others. Who have no hope. Only believers have hope of life after death. The speculations and surmisings of pagan philosophy do not amount to a hope.