 9 .]  For (  negative reason : see above: and that, with reference not only to the exhortations of 2 Peter 1:5-7 , but by this γάρ connected also with 2 Peter 1:8 ; the advantage of the presence is great, for the disadvantage of the absence indicates no less than spiritual blindness and oblivion)  he to whom these are not present (contrast to ταῦτα ὑμῖν ὑπάρχοντα κ . πλεονάζοντα , 2Pe 1:8 ) is blind (lacks discernment altogether of his own state as a member or Christ and inheritor of heaven),  short-sighted ( μυωπάζειν λέγονται οἱ ἐκ γενετῆς τὰ μὲν ἐγγὺς βλέποντες , τὰ δὲ ἐξ ἀποστάσεως οὐχ ὁρῶντες · ἐναντία δὲ πάσχουσιν οἱ γέροντες τοῖς μυωπάζουσιν , τὰ γὰρ ἐγγὺς μὴ ὁρῶντες τὰ πόῤῥωθεν βλέπουσιν , Aristot. Probl. § 31. Hence some, e. g. Beza, Grot., Est., De W., Huther, interpret the word of not being able to see the heavenly things, which are distant, only earthly, which are close at hand. Perhaps, however, Horneius is right in characterizing this as an “interpretatio argutior quam ut Apostolo proposita fuisse videri possit.” The vulg. “manu tentans” (Luth.,  und tappet mit der Hand : “manu viam tentans,” Erasm.) seems to have come from the gloss ψηλαφῶν . Thl. explains it by τυφλώττειν , ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπὸ τὴν γῆν μυῶν τυφλῶν εἰς ἅπαν διατελούντων : but thus we should have a mere tautology. Wolf adopts the interpretation “shutting the eyes,” seeing that Hesych. and Suidas explain it by καμμύειν , and that μυωπάζειν is only μύειν τὰς ὦπας . “Itaque,” he proceeds, “ τυφλὸς μυωπάζων is dicitur qui ideo cæcus est, quia sponte claudit oculos, ut ne videat, aut qui videre se dissimulat, quod vel invitus cernit.” This was also the opinion of Bochart, Hieroz. i. 4, whose arguments will be found reproduced in Suicer sub voce. On the whole I prefer the interpretation “  short-sighted ,” without endorsing the ingenious explanation of Beza al. above),  having incurred forgetfulness (reff. and Athen. xii. 5, p. 523, λήθην λαβόντες τῆς Κρητῶν περὶ τὸν βίον εὐκοσμίας . See more examples in Kypke, Krebs, and Loesner, h. l. Bengel says, “participio  nactus exprimitur quod homo volens patitur.” But surely this is very doubtful; certainly not upheld by the usage of the phrase)  of the purification of his former sins (i. e. of the fact of his ancient, pre-Christian, sins having been purged away in his baptism. This, and not the purification of the sins of the world, and of his among them, by the cross of Christ, is evidently the sense, by the πάλαι and αὐτοῦ . And thus almost all the Commentators, καὶ γὰρ καὶ οὗτος ἐπιγνοὺς ἑαυτὸν διὰ τὸ καθαρθῆναι τῷ ἁγίῳ βαπτίσματι , ὅτι πλήθους ἁμαρτιῶν ἐξεπλύθη , δέον εἰδέναι ὅτι καθαρεὶς καὶ ἁγιότητα ἔλαβε , νήφειν ἵνα διαπαντὸς τηρῇ τὸν ἁγιασμόν , οὗ χωρὶς οὐδεὶς ὄψεται τὸν κύριον , ὁ δὲ ἐπελάθετο . Œc. and so Thl.).