 17 .]  For (justification of the above assertion that we were admitted witnesses of His majesty)  having received (the construction is an interrupted one, and seems rightly explained by Winer, as in reff.: “the construction is broken off by the parenthetical clause φωνῆς .… εὐδόκησα , and the Apostle continues, 2 Peter 1:18 , καὶ ταύτην τὴν φωνὴν ἡμεῖς ἠκούσαμεν , instead, as he would have said, ἡμᾶς εἶχε ταύτην τὴν φωνὴν ἀκούσαντας (- οντας ?), or the like.” So that the participle does not want supplying by ἦν or ἐτύγχανε , nor is it put for the finite verb)  from God the Father (not τοῦ πατρός , or τοῦ π . αὐτοῦ , because θεὸς πατήρ was a term well known: cf. the same in Galatians 1:3 ; Ephesians 4:23 ; Philippians 2:11 ; 1 Thessalonians 1:1 ; 2 Timothy 1:2 ; Titus 1:4 ; 1 Peter 1:2 ; 2 John 1:3 ; Jud 1:1 )  honour and glory (honour, in the voice which spoke to him: glory, in the light which shone from Him),  when a voice was borne to Him (the occurrence of a similar expression in ref. 1 Pet. is to be noticed. The dative is purely local)  of such a kind (viz. as is stated in what follows: “purporting as follows”)  by (uttered by: the ὑπό of agency after a passive verb. As Winer remarks, § 47, all other renderings are arbitrary)  the sublime glory (the words seem to be a periphrasis of God Himself. In ref. Deut., God is called ὁ μεγαλοπρεπὴς τοῦ στερεώματος . So Gerh., De Wette, Huther. Others understand them of the bright cloud which overshadowed the company: others of the heaven: but ὑπό , in its only admissible meaning (see above), will not suit either interpretation),  This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (the words are as in Matthew 17:5 , where however we have ἐν ᾧ for εἰς ὅν , and αὐτοῦ ἀκούετε is added. In Mark and Luke the words εἰς ὃν κ . τ . λ . are wanting [and in the critical text of St. Luke. it is ὁ υἱός μου ὁ ἐκλελεγμένος ]. It is worth notice, that the words are in an independent form here.  εἰς ὅν is a pregnant construction, “on whom my pleasure has lighted and abides.”  εὐδόκησα , aor., but only to be given in Eng. by the present. If an account is to be given of the aoristic sense, it must be “my pleasure rested from eternity”).