 19 .]  And we have more sure the prophetic word (first, for the construction:  βεβαιότερον is predicative after  ἔχομεν : ‘  we have more sure :’ either in the sense of, a. we  hold faster , making βεβαιότερον quasi-adverbial: or, b. we  possess, more secure .… Of these, the latter (see below) is the only one which suits the interpretation of the comparative which we prefer. And thus a double explanation is possible: 1. that the comparative alludes to what has gone before as its  reason , as if it had been said  διὸ ἔχομεν βεβαιότερον , or  καὶ νῦν ἔχ .… or καὶ  ἐκ τούτου ἔχ .: i. e. ‘on account of this voice from heaven which we heard, we have firmer hold of, or esteem (possess) more sure, the prophetic word, as now having in our own ears begun its fulfilment.’ So Œc., ἐπεὶ δὲ διὰ τῶν πραγμάτων ἔγνωμεν διὰ τὴς πείρας τὰ ὑπὸ τῶν προφητῶν προκατηγγελμένα , βεβαιότεραν κρίνομέν φησι διὰ τούτων τὴν προφητείαν αὐτῶν : the scholia, Grot., Bengel (“firmior fit sermo propheticus ex implemento”), al., and hesitatingly, De Wette. The great objection to such a view is, the omission of any such connecting particles as those above supplied. It is true the Apostle may have omitted them: but even supposing that, it is further against the view, that if such be the force of the comparative, the thought is not at all followed up in the ensuing verses. We come then to the other possible force of the comparative: 2. that it is used as comparing the prophetic word with something which has been mentioned before, as being firmer, more secure than that other. And if so, what is that other? The most obvious answer is, the voice from heaven: and this is at first sight confirmed by the consideration that one  word would thus be compared with another, the φωνή with the λόγος . But then comes in the great difficulty, How could the Apostle designate the written word of God, inspired into and transmitted through men, as something firmer, more secure, than the uttered voice of God Himself? And our reply must be, that only in one sense of βεβαιότερος can this be so, viz. as being of wider and larger reference, embracing not only a single testimony to Christ as that divine voice did, but τὰ εἰς χριστὸν παθήματα , κ . τὰς μετὰ ταῦτα δόξας : as presenting a broader basis for the Christian’s trust, and not only one fact, however important. This is a modification of Huther’s view, which takes the comparison to be, that the testimony of the Transfiguration presented only the glory of Christ in the days of His flesh, whereas the prophetic word substantiates His future glory also. But this is insufficient, or rather is not strictly correct: for the Apostle clearly does regard the voice at the Transfiguration as a pledge of Christ’s future glory. Either of these is better than Calvin’s view: “non difficilis est hujusmodi solutio, quia hic respectum habet gentis suæ Apostolus: … quum apud Judæos indubium esset, a Domino profectum quicquid Prophetæ docuerant, non mirum est si dicat Petrus, firmiorem esse eorum sermonem: jam vetustas quoque ipsa semper aliquid reverentiæ secum trahit.” Bede’ [1] view is worth quoting: “si enim quispiam (inquit) nostro testimonio discredendum putaverit, quod in secreto gloriam Redemptoris nostri conspeximus divinam, quod vocem Patris ad eum factam audierimus, certe sermoni prophetico nemo contradicere, nullus de hoc ambigere audebit, quem divinis Scripturis jam olim insertum omnes verum esse testantur.” And so nearly, Estius. But in this case we should have expected ἔχομεν δὲ καὶ .… A modification of this view is found in Augustine, in Joan. Tract. xxxv. 8, vol. iii. pt. ii., “quia  nos non ibi fuimus, et istam vocem de cœlo tunc non audivimus, ait ad nos ipse Petrus, Et habemus certiorem propheticum sermonem. Non audistis vocem de cœlo delatam, sed certiorem habetis propheticum sermonem” (see the same more fully expanded in his Serm. de Scripturis xliii. (xxvii.) 3, 4 (5), vol. v. p. 256). But then we should have expected ἔχετε . Of course, all attempts to shelve the comparative by making it into a positive (  Wir haben ein festes prophetisches Wort , Luth.), or a superlative (“habemus firmissimum sermonem propheticum,” Beza), are out of the question.  τὸν λόγον προφητικόν cannot be as Sherlock, Griesb., N. T. prophecies, nor as Benson, al., O. and N. T. prophecies combined, on account of the subsequent expression in ch. 2 Peter 2:1 , which confines it to O. T. times),  to which ye do well in paying attention (cf. Joseph. in reff.  προσέχοντες , sc. τὸν νοῦν , gives the idea of adherence, not merely of notice: compare Heb 2:1 ),  as to a candle (the figure is taken from the lighting of a candle at night, and the imagery is as in Romans 13:12 , ἡ νύξ προέκοψεν , ἡ δὲ ἡμέρα ἤγγικεν )  shining in a dark place (  αὐχμηρὸς ( αὔω ), lit.  dry, arid : hence neglected, dirty, dark: “Aristoteles de coloribus opponit τὸ στίλβον κ . λαμπρὸν τῷ αὐχμηρῷ καὶ ἀλαμπεῖ .” Wetst. (which seems to answer Kypke, who questions if the sense “dark” can be proved except from Suidas and the grammarians). Suidas gives αὐχμηρόν , στυγνόν , ἤ σκοτεινόν : and so Hesych., ξηρόν , σκοτῶδες )  until day shall dawn (aor. in the sense of ‘futurus exactus:’ the fact involved in the διαυγάσαι coming in upon and putting an end to the state indicated by the pres. participles above. The ἕως οὗ belongs more naturally to προσέχοντες than to φαίνοντι , because that which follows ἕως οὗ relates to the readers, not to the word of prophecy. For  διαυγάζειν in the sense of dawning, see ref. Polyb. Plut. moral., p. 893 E, uses it of lightning, τῇ πληγῇ καὶ τῷ σχισμῷ διαυγάζει )  and the morning-star shall rise in your hearts (it is said by the Commentators quoting from one another, that  φωσφόρος is taken by Hesych. for the sun. But he merely says, φωσφόρος , φωτοδότης , λαμπρὸς ἀστήρ . And as there is no precedent, so also is there no occasion, for thus understanding it here. The dawn of the day is accompanied by the rising of the morning-star. It is not quite clear,  what time is here pointed out by the ἕως οὗ . Gerhard says, “Petrus h. l. docet, scripta prophetica lucem quandam tenuem tempore V. T. exhibuisse, donec per verbum evangelii et operationem Spiritus sancti uberior, clarior et perfectior lux divinæ notitiæ in N. T. fuerit secuta.” But it is entirely against this view, that the pres. ᾧ καλῶς ποιεῖτε προσέχοντες makes it necessary, as indeed does the whole context, that the time spoken of, which the ἕως οὗ is to put an end to, should be  present . De Wette modifies this last view by saying, that this O. T. darkness of the pre-Christian time still endures for those who have not yet embraced the Christian faith. But this would make the readers, who are said, 2 Peter 1:12 , to be ἐστηριγμένοι ἐν τῇ παρούσῃ ἀληθείᾳ , to be still unconverted to Christianity. Bed [2] , Calvin, al., understand it of the glorious day which is to come when the Lord shall be manifested. So Bed [3] : “ad lucernam noctarnam pertinet quod ‘filii Dei sumus et nondum apparuit quid erimus.’ Et in comparatione quidem impiorum, dies sumus, Paulo dicente, Fuistis aliquando tenebræ, nunc autem lux in Domino. Sed si comparemur illi vitæ in qua futuri sumus, adhuc nox sumus, et lucerna indigemus.” So Calvin, “Ego hanc caliginem ad totum vitæ stadium extendo, ac diem tunc nobis illucere interpreter, quum facie ad faciem videbimus quod nunc cernimus per speculum et ænigmate:” so Dietlein, al. Others, as Grot., al., De Wette, Huther, think that some state  in the readers themselves is pointed at, which is to supervene upon their present less perfect state: Grot. interpreting it of their attainment of the gift of prophecy: De Wette of their arriving at full conviction of the certainty of the coming of Christ: Huther, much the same, adding, “The writer distinguishes between two degrees of the Christian life: in the first, faith rests upon outward evidences, in the second, on inward revelations of the Spirit: in the first, each detail is believed separately as such: in the second, each is recognized as a necessary part of the whole. And hence the being in the former is naturally called a walking ἐν τόπῳ αὐχμηρῷ , in the light of a λύχνος , while the being in the latter is a walking in the light of the morning.” And this latter I believe to be nearly the true account. That which refers the words to the time of the Lord’s coming is objectionable, because thus, 1. the time of the Christian’s walk here, in which he is said to be light in the Lord, would, not comparatively (as Bede's [4] above), but absolutely, be described as a walking in darkness by the slender light of O. T. prophecy: 2. the morning-star arising  in men’s hearts is not a description which can apply to the Lord’s coming. So that, whatever apparent analogy there may be with the comparison used in Romans 13:11 ff., the matters treated of seem to be different. At the same time it may well be, that the Apostle should have mingled both ideas together as he wrote the words; seeing that even in our hearts the fulness of the spiritual day will not have arisen, until that time when we see face to face, and know even as God knew us):
	 [1] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [2] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [3] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [4] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.