 10 .]  Wherefore the rather (“quæ cum ita sint, impensius.” διό referring to the two considerations urged in 2 Peter 1:8-9 , and μᾶλλον making them reasons for increased zeal in complying with the exhortation),  brethren (making the appeal more close and affectionate),  give diligence (so the E. V. admirably. ‘Be earnest’ would express rather σπουδάζετε pres., whereas the aor. includes the whole σπουδάσαι in one lifelong effort)  to make (not ποιεῖν , which lay beyond their power, but  ποιεῖσθαι , on their side, for their part. But the verb must not be explained away into a pure subjectivity, ‘to make sure to yourselves:’ it carries the reflective force, but only in so far as the act is and must be done for and quoad a man’s own self, the absolute and final determination resting with Another. Calvin’s “studete ut re ipsa testatum fiat, vos non frustra vocatos esse” (  βεβαίαν ποιεῖσθαι ?) is a very weak dilution of the sense. We must take the passage as we find it: and as it stands its simple and irrefragable sense is that by σπουδὴν παρεισενέγκαι ἐπιχορηγῆσαι ἐν κ . τ . λ . is the way βεβαίαν ποιεῖσθαι our κλῆσιν and ἐκλογήν . How this is to be reconciled with the fact, that our κλῆσις and ἐκλογή proceed entirely and freely from God, would not be difficult to shew: but it must not be done, as Calvin attempts it, by wresting plain words and context)  your calling and election (as Grot., al., “vocatio quæ vobis contigit per evangelium, et electio eam secuta, qua facti estis Dei populus.” Both these were God’s acts, cf. 2Pe 1:3 and 1Pe 1:1-2 )  secure (‘  ratæ ,’ as Grot.: for both, in as far as we look on them from the lower side, not able to penetrate into the counsels of God, are insecure unless established by holiness of life. In His foreknowledge and purpose, there is no insecurity, no uncertainty: but in our vision and apprehension of them as they exist in and for us, much, until they are made secure in the way here pointed out):  for, doing these things (act.,  ποιοῦντες , now, because these are works done. And the participle is conditional, carrying with it an hypothesis: as E. V. ‘  if ye do these things ’),  ye shall never offend (reff. stumble and fall):