 4 .]  through which (His attributes and energies)  He hath given to us (  δεδώρηται again middle in sense, see above: not as E. V., passive: the subject is ὁ καλέσας )  the [or,  His ]  greatest and precious promises (  ἐπαγγέλματα , as in ch. 2 Peter 3:13 ,  promises : not,  things promised (Est., Beng., al.), still less, as Dietlein, proclamations of Christian doctrine, which the word cannot mean. Benson’s idea, that by ἡμῖν are meant the Apostles, and that the second person γένησθε refers to the Gentile Christians, seems quite beside the purpose),  that by means of these (promises: i. e. their fulfilment: not to be referred, as Calv., Benson, De Wette, to τὰ πρὸς ζωὴν κ . τ . λ . as the antecedent: nor, as Beng., to δόξη καὶ ἀρετή :  τούτων shews pointedly that the last-mentioned noun is the antecedent)  ye may become (aor., but not on that account to be rendered, as Huther,  wurdet ,  that ye might be , adding, that the Writer assumes the participation to have already taken place: for the aor. is continually thus used of future contingencies without any such intent: e. g. πιστεύετε εἰς τὸ φῶς , ἵνα υἱοὶ φωτὸς γένησθε , John 12:36 . The account of this usage of the aor. has not been any where, that I have seen, sufficiently given. It is untranslateable in most cases, but seems to serve in the Greek to express that the aim was not the procedure, but the completion, of that indicated: not the γίνεσθαι , the carrying on of the process, but the γενέσθαι , its accomplishment)  partakers of the divine nature (i. e. of that holiness, and truth, and love, and, in a word, perfection, which dwells in God, and in you, by God dwelling in you: “vocat hic divinam naturam id quod divina præsentia efficit in nobis, i. e. conformitatem nostri cum Deo, seu imaginem Dei quæ in nobis reformatur per divinam præsentiam in nobis.” Hemming in Huther: which is only so far wrong, that it confounds our κοινωνία in the divine nature, of which the above would be a right description, with that nature itself),  having escaped (not a conditional participial clause, but like ὀλίγον παθόντας in 1 Peter 5:10 , merely a note of matter of fact, bringing out in this case the negative side of the Christian life, as the former clause did the positive: ‘when ye have escaped’)  from (the construction, of ἀποφεύγω with a gen. is not very usual. Matthiæ gives a similar instance from Xen. An. i. 3. 2, ἐξέφυγε τοῦ μὴ καταπετρωθῆναι , and another from Soph. Antig. 488, οὐκ ἀλύξετον μόρου κακίστου . In Philoct. 1034 we have δοκοῖμ ʼ ἂν τῆς νόσου πεφευγέναι . These last instances shew that the gen. here is due, not to the preposition ἀπο , but to the idea of separation and distance implied in the sense of the verbs)  the corruption (= destruction, of soul and body)  which is in the world in (consisting in, as its element and ground)  lust (Calvin: “hanc non in elementis quæ nos circumstant, sed in corde nostro esse ostendit, quia illic regnant vitiosi et pravi affectus, quorum fontem vel radicem voce concupiscentiæ notat. Ergo ita locatur in mundo corruptio, ut sciamus in nobis esse mundum”).