 20 .]  Caution as to the interpretation of O. T. prophecy : to be borne in mind, while taking heed to it.  This first knowing (  τοῦτο , viz. what follows, introduced by ὅτι .  πρῶτον , not as Bengel, “prius quam ego dico,” but first and as most important in applying yourselves to prophetic interpretation  γινώσκοντες , as in reff.,  being aware of , and bearing in mind: = εἰδότες , 1Pe 1:18 ),  that no prophecy of Scripture (  γραφή most probably here imports the O. T. only, from the ποτε , and indeed the aorists in the next verse.
	 πᾶσα  …   οὐ , in the Hebr. manner for οὐδεμία : see Romans 3:20 ; 1Co 1:29 al.)  comes of private interpretation (how are these words to be understood? Two references seem to be possible: 1.  to us , who try to understand written prophecies: 2.  to the prophets themselves , as they spoke them. And of these the former, maintained by Bed [5] , Erasm., Aret., Gerhard, Pott, Steiger, al., seems precluded by the context, the next verse assigning as a reason for the position in this, that the prophets spoke not of themselves, but as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And though this might have been alleged as a reason why private interpretation cannot solve those prophecies, yet in that case we should expect not οὐ γάρ , which simply assigns the direct reason, but οὐδὲ γάρ , which assigns an analogical or remote reason. So that we seem driven to the conclusion that the saying regards, not our interpretation of prophecy, but  its resolution , or  interpretation, by the prophets themselves . And so Œc.: τουτέστιν ὅτι λαμβάνουσι μὲν ἀπὸ θεοῦ οἱ προφῆται τὴν προφητείαν , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ ὡς ἐκεῖνοι βούλονται , ἀλλ ʼ ὡς τὸ κινοῦν αὐτοὺς ἐνεργεῖ πνεῦμα . καὶ ᾔδεσαν μὲν καὶ συνίεσαν τὸν καταπεμπόμενον αὐτοῖς προφητικὸν λόγον , οὐ μέντοι καὶ τὴν ἐπίλυσιν αὐτοῦ ἐποιοῦντο : and below, … καίπερ εἰδότες οὐ χρείαν εἶχον ἑρμηνεύειν τὰ ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν , ἀλλ ʼ ἑτέροις διηκόνουν ταῦτα , ἡμῖν γάρ . Similarly Thl.: and De Wette, adding, that this is said to excuse the difficulty of the interpretation of prophecy, and to remove occasion of unbelief and scoffing (ch. 2Pe 3:3 ). But as Huther well remarks, this last purpose is not only not indicated in the context, but is quite out of the question; the Apostle referring to prophecy not as difficult of interpretation, but as a candle shining in a dark place, nay, as being even more firm and secure than external proofs of the same truths. I believe Huther’s view to be the true one: which arises from this consideration, that  ἐπίλυσις is not the subsequent interpretation of a prophecy already given, but the intelligent apprehension of the meaning of the prophecy, out of which (but not ἰδίας on the part of those by whom it is sent) the prophecy itself springs. And this is much confirmed by  γίνεται , which with a gen. as here, is not = ἐστιν , but rather seems to denote  origin . So that the sense will be, that prophecy  springs not out of human interpretation , i. e. is not a prognostication made by a man knowing what he means when he utters it: but &c. Thus, and thus alone, the whole context coheres. And this appears to be Bengel’s view, though he does not express himself very clearly: “ut callide concinnatis fabulis opponitur spectatio apostolica: sic propriæ interpretationi opponitur φορά , vectura prophetica. Itaque ἐπίλυσις dicitur interpretatio qua ipsi prophetæ res antea plane clausas aperuere mortalibus. Prophetia nec primo humana est, nec a se ipsa unquam ita desciscit ut incipiat esse verbum propriæ, i. e. humanæ ἐπιλύσεως , sed plane divinæ patefactionis est, et in rebus exituque talis cognoscitur, imo etiam firmior fit”).
	 [5] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.