 ΠΕΤΡΟΥ Β
	 1, 2 .] ADDRESS AND GREETING.  Symeon (see var. readd. The form, as belonging to our Apostle, is found, besides here, only in Acts 15:14 . Its occurrence is at all events a testimony in favour of the independence of the second Epistle. It was not  adapted to the first: which, considering that it  refers to the first, is a note, however slight, on the side of its genuineness)  Peter, a servant ( Rom 1:1 )  and apostle (an ingenious reason is given by De Wette for the occurrence of both these designations: that the Writer combined 1 Peter 1:1 , with Jud 1:1 )  of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained (  λαγχάνειν (with acc. as reff. Acts, 3 Macc.) shews, as Beng., that “non ipsi sibi pararunt:” as Huss in Huther, “sicut sors non respicit personam, ita nec divina electio acceptatrix est personarum”)  like precious faith (  faith , i. e. substance of truth believed: faith objective, not subjective,  of equal value : not, as De W., which confers equal right to God’s kingdom, equal honour and glory: such a meaning would be unexampled. The E. V. has hit the meaning very happily by  like precious . Cf. 1 Peter 2:7 . Huther quotes from Horneius (similarly Estius); “dicitur fides æque pretiosa, non quod omnium credentium æque magna sit, sed quod per fidem illam eadem mysteria et eadem beneficia divina nobis proponantur”)  with us (apparently, in the first place, the Apostles: but more probably, in a wider sense, the Jewish Christians, with whom the Gentiles had been admitted into the same covenant, and the inheritance of the like precious promises)  in the righteousness of our God and (our)  Saviour Jesus Christ (first, concerning  ἐν δικαιοσύνῃ . Some Commentators, as Beza, Grot., Piscator, al., take δικ . for an attribute of God, and ἐν as instrumental, by the righteousness, goodness, truth, of God: others, as Estius, Horneius, al., understand δικ . as “justitia quam Deus nobis dat et Christus peperit” (Horn.), explaining ἐν as ‘cum’ or ‘per:’ but, as Huther well replies, this is objectionable, seeing that righteousness comes by faith, not faith by righteousness. De Wette would give two different meanings to δικ . as applied to the Father and to the Son, in the former case making it mean  grace , in the latter  love : but this is evidently quite arbitrary. Gerhard would confine it altogether to the “obedientia et satisfactio Christi,” against which is τοῦ θεοῦ ἡμῶν . The best explanation seems to me that of Huther, that δικαιοσύνη here betokens the righteous dealing of God, corresponding to His attribute of righteousness, as opposed to προσωποληψία : and that the words are to be taken in close connexion with the foregoing, τοῖς ἰσότιμον ἡμῖν λαχοῦσιν πίστιν , ἐν being used of the conditional element, in which the λαχεῖν πίστιν ἰσότιμον is grounded: so that the sense is, in His righteousness, which makes no difference between the one party and the other, God has given to you the like precious faith, as to us. De W.’s objection to this, that thus the Epistle must be regarded as written to Gentile Christians, is not valid, or proves too much: for at all events there must be  two parties in view in the words ἰσότιμον ἡμῖν , whatever these parties be.
	Next, as to the words  τοῦ θεοῦ ἡμῶν καὶ σωτῆρος Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . Undoubtedly, as in Titus 2:13 , in strict grammatical propriety, both θεοῦ and σωτῆρος would be predicates of Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . But here, as there, considerations interpose, which seem to remove the strict grammatical rendering out of the range of probable meaning. I have fully discussed the question in the note on that passage, to which I would refer the reader as my justification for interpreting here, as there, τοῦ θεοῦ ἡμῶν of the Father, and σωτῆρος Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ of the Son. Here, there is the additional consideration in favour of this view, that the Two are distinguished most plainly in the next verse):