 5 .]  And on this very account (  αὐτὸ τοῦτο , lit. “  this very thing :” but just as τί , “  what ,” has come to mean “  why? ” “  for what reason? ” so  αὐτό , or  τοῦτο , or the strengthened demonstrative produced by the juxtaposition of both, has come to mean, “  wherefore ,” “  for this reason .” See Winer in reff.: and cf. Xen. Anab. i. 9. 21, αὐτὸ τοῦτο οὗπερ αὐτὸς ἕνεκα φίλων ᾤετο δεῖσθαι , … καὶ αὐτὸς ἐπειρᾶτο συνεργὸς τοῖς φίλοις κράτιστος εἶναι , ‘for the very reason, for which he thought that he himself wanted friends.… he also tried to be’ &c.: and Plato, Protag. p. 310 E, αὐτὰ ταῦτα νῦν ἥκω παρά σε . The reason here being, ὡς .… δεδωρημένης κ . τ . λ ., above: so that this forms a sort of apodosis to that sentence. The E. V. ‘  beside this ’ is entirely at fault. Nor can we, as Dietlein, make αὐτὸ τοῦτο the object after ἐπιχορηγήσατε )  giving on your part (  παρεισενέγκαντες , lit.  introducing by the side of ; i. e. besides those precious promises on God’s part, bringing in on your part)  all diligence (so σπουδὴν εἰσενέγκαι or εἰσενέγκασθαι in Libanius, Josephus, Antt. xx. 9. 2, Diod. Sic. p. 554, in Wetst.),  furnish (from the original meaning of the verb, to  provide expenses for a chorus , it easily gets this of  furnishing forth : see reff. And the construction and meaning of the following clauses is not as Horneius and the E. V., “adjicite fidei virtutem &c.,” but the  ἐν is each time used of that which is assumed to be theirs, and the exhortation is, to take care that, in the exercise of that, the next step is developed: “præsens quisque gradus subsequentem parit et facilem reddit: subsequens priorem temperat ac perficit,” Bengel)  in your faith (Bengel remarks, “fides, Dei donum: ideo non jubemur subministrare fidem, sed in fide fructus illos, qui septem enumerantur: fide chorum ducente, amore concludente”)  virtue (best perhaps understood with Bengel as “strenuus animi tonus ac vigor.” Œc. gives it τὰ ἔργα ; but this seems too general: it is indeed that which  produces τὰ ἔργα , without which faith is dead: and hence the connexion),  and in your virtue, knowledge (probably that practical discriminating knowledge, of which it is said Ephesians 5:17 , μὴ γίνεσθε ἄφρονες , ἀλλὰ συνίετε τί τὸ θέλημα τοῦ κυρίου : “quæ malum a bono secernit, et mali fugam docet,” Beng.: not as Œc., ἡ τῶν τοῦ θεοῦ ἀποκρύφων μυστηρίων εἴδησις ),