Verse 36. Jesus - went into the house: and his disciples came — Circumstances of this kind should not pass unnoticed: they are instructive and important. Those who attend only to the public preaching of the Gospel of God are not likely to understand fully the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. To understand clearly the purport of the Divine message, a man must come to God by frequent, fervent, secret prayer. It is thus that the word of God sinks into the heart, is watered, and brings forth much fruit.Declare (φρασον, explain) unto us the parable of the tares of the field. — To what has already been spoken on this parable, the following general exposition may be deemed a necessary appendage: -I. What is the cause of EVIL in the world?1. We must allow that God, who is infinite in holiness, purity, and goodness, could not have done it. Nothing can produce what is not in itself. This is a maxim which every man subscribes to: God then could not have produced sin, forasmuch as his nature is infinite goodness and holiness. He made man at first in his own image, a transcript of his own purity: and, since sin entered into the world, He has done every thing consistent with his own perfections, and the freedom of the human mind, to drive it out, and to make and keep man holy.2. After a thousand volumes are written on the origin of evil, we shall just know as much of it as Christ has told us here - An enemy hath done it, and this enemy is the devil, Matthew 13:39.1. This enemy is represented as a deceitful enemy: a friend in appearance, soliciting to sin, by pleasure, honour, riches, c.2. A vigilant enemy. While men sleep he watches, Matthew 13:25.3. A hidden or secret enemy. After having sown his seed, he disappears, Matthew 13:25. Did he appear as himself, few would receive solicitations to sin but he is seldom discovered in evil thoughts, unholy desires, flattering discourses, bad books, c.II. Why was evil permitted to enter into the world?1. There are doubtless sufficient reasons in the Divine Mind for its permission which, connected with his infinite essence, and extending to eternity, are not only unfathomable by us, but also, from their nature, incommunicable to men.2. But it may be justly said, that hereby many attributes of the Divine Nature become manifest, which otherwise could not have been known; such as mercy, compassion, long-suffering, c. All of which endear the Deity to men, and perfect the felicity of those who are saved.III. But why does he suffer this mixture of the good and bad seed now?1. Because of the necessary dependence of one part of the creation on the other. Were the wicked all rooted up, society must fail - the earth be nearly desolated - noxious things greatly multiplied - and the small remnant of the godly, not being able to stand against the onsets of wild beasts, c., must soon be extirpated and then adieu to the economy of grace!2. Did not the wicked exist, there would be no room for the exercise of many of the graces of the Spirit, on which our spiritual perfection greatly depends.3. Nor could the grace of God be so manifest in supporting and saving the righteous and consequently could not have that honour which now it justly claims.4. Were not this evil tolerated, how could the wicked be converted? The bastard wheat, by being transplanted to a better soil, may become good wheat; so sinners may be engrafted in Christ, and become sons of God through faith in his name; for the longsuffering of God leads multitudes to repentance.IV. Observe the end of the present state of things:1. The wicked shall be punished, and the righteous rewarded.The wicked are termed bastard - wheat - the children of the wicked one, Matthew 13:38, the very seed of the serpent.Observe the place in which the wicked shall be punished, - a FURNACE. The instrument of this punishment, FIRE. This is an allusion to the punishment inflicted only on those supposed to be the very worst of criminals. See Daniel 3:6. They were cast into a burning fiery furnace. The effect of it, DESPAIR; weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth, Matthew 13:42.2. Observe the character and state of the righteous:1. They are the children of the kingdom, a seed of God's sowing, Matthew 13:38.2. As to their persons, they shall be like the sun.3. The place of their felicity shall be the kingdom of heaven: and,4. The object of it, GOD In the relation of FATHER, Matthew 13:43. This is a reference to Daniel 12:2-3.Some learned men are of opinion that the whole of this parable refers to the Jewish state and people; and that the words συντελεια του αιωνος, which are commonly translated the end of the world, should be rendered the end of the age, viz. the end of the Jewish polity. That the words have this meaning in other places there can be no doubt; and this may be their primary meaning here; but there are other matters in the parable which agree far better with the consummation of all things than with the end of the Jewish dispensation and polity. See on Mark 4:29.