This chapter 2 Corinthians 1:0 consists of the following parts, or subjects:1. The usual salutation and benediction in the introduction of the Epistle, 2 Corinthians 1:1-2. This is found in all the epistles of Paul, and was at once an affectionate salutation and an appropriate expression of his interest in their welfare, and also an appropriate mode of commencing an address to them by one who claimed to be inspired and sent from God.2. He refers to the consolation which he had had in his heavy trials, and praises God for that consolation, and declares that the reason for which he was comforted was, that he might be qualified to administer consolation to others in the same or in similar circumstances, 2 Corinthians 1:3-7.3. He informs them of the heavy trials which he was called to experience when he was in Ephesus, and of his merciful deliverance from those trials, 2 Corinthians 1:8-12. He had been exposed to death, and had despaired of life, 2 Corinthians 1:8-9; yet he had been delivered 2 Corinthians 1:10; he desired them to unite with him in thanksgiving on account of it 2 Corinthians 1:11; and in all this he had endeavored to keep a good conscience, and had that testimony that he had endeavored to maintain such a conscience toward all, and especially toward them, 2 Corinthians 1:12.4. He refers to the design which he had in writing the former letter to them, 2 Corinthians 1:13-14. He had written to them only such things as they admitted to be true and proper; and such as he was persuaded they would always admit. They had always received his instructions favorably and kindly; and he had always sought their welfare.5. In this state of mind, Paul had designed to have paid them a second visit, 2 Corinthians 1:15-16. But he had not done it yet, and it appears that his enemies had taken occasion from this to say that he was inconstant and fickle-minded. He, therefore, takes occasion to vindicate himself, and to convince them that he was not faithless to his word and purposes, and to show them the true reason why he had not visited them, 2 Corinthians 1:17-24. He states, therefore, that his real intentions had been to visit them 2 Corinthians 1:15-16; that his failure to do so had not proceeded from either levity or falsehood 2 Corinthians 1:17; as they might have known from the uniform doctrine which he had taught them, in which he had inculcated the necessity of a strict adherence to promises, from the veracity of Jesus Christ his great example 2 Corinthians 1:18-20; and from the fact that God had given to him the Holy Spirit, and anointed him 2 Corinthians 1:21-22; and he states, therefore, that the true reason why he had not come to them was, that he wished to spare them 2 Corinthians 1:23-24; he was willing to remain away from them until they should have time to correct the evils which existed in their church, and prevent the necessity of severe discipline when he should come.