9. And as Jesus passed forth from
	thence—that is, from the scene of the paralytic's cure in
	Capernaum, towards the shore of the Sea of Galilee, on which that
	town lay. Mark, as usual, pictures the scene more in detail, thus ( :-): "And He went forth again by the seaside; and all the
	multitude resorted unto Him, and He taught them"—or, "kept
	teaching them." "And as He passed by" 
	he saw a man, named
	Matthew—the writer of this precious Gospel, who here, with
	singular modesty and brevity, relates the story of his own calling.
	In Mark and Luke he is called Levi, which seems to have been
	his family name. In their lists of the twelve apostles, however, Mark
	and Luke give him the name of Matthew, which seems to have been the
	name by which he was known as a disciple. While he himself sinks his
	family name, he is careful not to sink his occupation, the obnoxious
	associations with which he would place over against the grace that
	called him from it, and made him an apostle. (See on  :-). Mark alone tells us ( :-) that he was "the son of Alphæus"—the same,
	probably, with the father of James the Less. From this and other
	considerations it is pretty certain that he must at least have heard
	of our Lord before this meeting. Unnecessary doubts, even from an
	early period, have been raised about the identity of Levi and
	Matthew. No capable jury, with the evidence before them which we have
	in the Gospels, would hesitate in giving a unanimous verdict of
	identity. 
	sitting at the receipt of
	custom—as a publican, which Luke ( :-) calls him. It means the place of receipt, the toll house or
	booth in which the collector sat. Being in this case by the seaside,
	it might be the ferry tax for the transit of persons and goods across
	the lake, which he collected. (See on  :-). 
	and he saith unto him, Follow
	me—Witching words these, from the lips of Him who never
	employed them without giving them resistless efficacy in the hearts
	of those they were spoken to. 
	And he—"left all"
	(Luke 5:28), "arose and
	followed him." 
	The Feast (Luke 5:28- :).