This closing chapter 2 Corinthians 13:1-14 of the Epistle relates to the following subjects.I. The assurance of Paul that he was about to come among them 2 Corinthians 13:1-4, and that he would certainly inflict punishment on all who deserved His enemies had reproached him as being timid and pusillanimous; see the notes on 2 Corinthians 10:1-2, 2 Corinthians 10:10-11. They had said that he was powerful to threaten, but afraid to execute. It is probable that they had become more bold in this from the fact that he had twice proposed to go there and had failed. In reply to all this, he now in conclusion solemnly assures them that he was coming, and that in all cases where an offence was proved by two or three witnesses, punishment would be inflicted; He assures them 2 Corinthians 13:2 that he would not spare; and that since they sought a proof that Christ had sent him they should witness that proof in the punishment which he would inflict 2 Corinthians 13:3; for that Christ was now clothed with power and was able to execute punishment, though he had been crucified; 2 Corinthians 13:4.II. Paul calls on them solemnly to examine themselves and to see whether they had any true religion; 2 Corinthians 13:5-6. In the state of things which existed there; in the corruption which had abounded in the church, he solemnly commands them to institute a faithful inquiry, to know whether they had not been deceived; at the same time expressing the hope that it would appear as the result of their examination that they were not reprobates.III. He earnestly prays to God that they might do no evil; that they might be found to be honest and pure, whatever might be thought of Paul himself or whatever might become of him; 2 Corinthians 13:7. Their repentance would save. Paul from exerting his miraculous power in their punishment, and might thus prevent the proof of his apostolic authority which they desired, and the consequence might be that they might esteem him to be a reprobate, for he could not exert his miraculous power except in the cause of truth; 2 Corinthians 13:8. Still he was willing to be esteemed an impostor if they would do no evil.IV. He assures them that he earnestly wished their perfection, and that the design of his writing to them severe as he had appeared, was their edification; 2 Corinthians 13:9-10.V. Then he bids them an affectionate and tender farewell, and closes with the usual salutations and benedictions; 2 Corinthians 13:11-14.