 4 .]  Ye adulteresses (the occurrence of the fem. only is rightly explained by Theile: “A fœm. nec vero a masc. facta denominatio suppeditari poterat ipsa imagine. Ea quum Deum sistat  maritum , homines  fœminam , non minus recte singuli homines  scorta dicentur, quam totum genus atque universa aliqua gens  scortum .” Nor is De Wette’s protest needed that only das Volk im Ganzen, only the entire people, is thus called: nor Huther’s consequent modification of Theile, that St. James is addressing Churches here. For God is the Lord and husband of every soul that is His, as much as of every church; and the indignant μοιχαλίδες of the Apostle is just as applicable to every one who forsakes his or her God, as to an apostate church. This is one of those cases where the testimony of our ancient MSS. is so valuable, in restoring to us the nervous and pregnant rebuke of the original),  know ye not that the friendship of the world (  ὁ κόσμος here, precisely as in ch. James 1:27 , men, and men’s interests and ambitions and employments, in so far as they are without God. So that we must not understand merely  worldly goods , as Schneckenburger, Theile, al., nor merely  worldly desires (Didymus, Laurentius), nor both of these together (De Wette), to neither of which will φιλία properly fit)  is enmity (‘the state of being an enemy:’ not ἐχθρά , “inimica,” as vulg., which destroys the parallelism and force)  of God (the man who is taken out of the world by Christ, cannot again become a friend and companion of worldly men and their schemes for self, without passing into enmity with God, of whose family he was a reconciled member. God and the world stand opposed to one another: so that a man cannot join the one without deserting the other. This is further stated in what follows)?  whoever therefore (particular consequence on the general axiom just stated, carried however further, into all approach to, and not merely the completion of, the outward state)  shall be minded (no  stress on βουληθῇ : it is a mere statement of fact as to the man who becomes a friend of the world, and therefore, in so doing, sets his mind and thought and wish that way. So that we need not say with Laurentius, “Non is tantum est inimicus Dei, qui est ipso opere amicus mundi, sed etiam ille qui cum non possit, vult tamen.” But he is so far right, that the Apostle certainly means to say, He that  would be a friend of the world, must make up his mind to be God’s enemy)  to be a friend of the world, is (thereby, by the proceeding in the direction indicated by that βουλή )  constituted (as above, ref.; not merely “is,” or ‘becomes:’ ‘becomes ipso facto,’ ‘then and there,’ is rather the meaning of  καθίσταται )  an enemy of God .