 13 .]  Go to now (“interjectio ad excitandam attentionem,” Beng. This seems to be the true view of it: ‘come on,’ q. d. let us reason together: cf.  δεῦτε  , διελεγχθῶμεν , Isaiah 1:18 . The  νῦν serves to mark the time, as noted by the point to which the argument of the Epistle has arrived. It is hardly purely temporal, but as so often, slightly ratiocinative, = ‘rebus sic stantibus,’ ‘quæ cum ita sint:’ see on 1Co 13:13 ),  ye that say (no stress on λέγοντες : not as Theile, “qui non solum cogitare soletis, sed etiam dicere audetis.” The fault is even oftener perhaps committed in word than in thought. We speak more presumptuously before men than we think in our own hearts; though there also we are too liable to forget God),  To-day and to-morrow (the ἤ of the rec. would suppose an alternative, “to-day, it may be, or to-morrow:” with  καί , the two days are assigned for the journey, without any alternative. Bengel and Wiesinger take καί , as in δύο μαρτύρων καὶ τριῶν , 2 Corinthians 13:1 , as combining two possible cases: “Nunc dicit  hodie , idem aliusve  cras , ut commodum est,” Beng. This is possible: but I prefer the other)  we will go (the indic, fut. (see var. readd.) gives the fixed certainty of the assumption)  into this (most Commentators render, “  this or that ,” = “such a,” as E. V.: and Winer, Gramm. § 23. 5, refers to Plutarch, Sympos. i. 6. 1, for this usage of ὅδε . But his reference does not quite bear him out. Plutarch is proving the vinosity of Alexander from the βασιλικαὶ ἐφημερίδες , in which is found very often written ὅτι τήνδε τὴν ἡμέραν ἐκ τοῦ πότου ἐκάθευδεν , ἔστι δ ʼ ὅτε καὶ τὴν ἐφεξῆς : where τήνδε τὴν ἡμέραν is clearly a quotation from the diary, not ‘this or that day,’ but “this day:” and then τὴν ἐφεξῆς is an improper elliptical way of recording, that against the next day a similar entry was made. So that I should much doubt this usage of ὅδε , there being no mention of it in the best Lexx., and apparently no other example: and should consider τήνδε τὴν πόλιν as a sort of ‘oratio mixta,’ to express in general terms the city then present to the mind of the speaker)  city, and will spend (reff. for this temporal sense of  ποιέω )  there one year (  ἐνιαυτὸν ἕνα is the accus. not of duration, but of the object, after ποιήσομεν . So that the E. V. “continue there a year,” is not accurate. It should have been ‘spend a year there,’ which savours of presumption much more strongly and vividly.  ἐνιαυτ  .   ἕνα  : “Sic loquuntur, quasi mox etiam de insequentibus annis deliberaturi.” Beng.),  and (Bengel remarks well: “  καί frequens: polysyndeton exprimit libidinem animi securi”)  will traffic (this word brings up the worldly nature of the plan)  and get gain: