2. The sense of the words themselves,  πρὸς φθόνον ἐπιποθεῖ τὸ πνεῦμα ὃ κατῴκισεν ἐν ἡμῖν , is very variously given.  α  .   πρὸς φθόνον is by some referred back to  λέγει , ἡ γρ . λέγει πρὸς φθόνον : “An putatis, quod scriptura in vanum loquatur adversus invidiam? Spiritus  desideria excitat , sed meliora desideriis carnis:” so Du Mont, in Huther. But this “  desideria excitare ” is an unexampled sense of ἐπιποθεῖν . Gebser takes this connexion, and renders, “Think ye, that the Scripture speaks in vain, and enviously?” And nearly so Œcumenius, ἢ δοκεῖτε ὅτι κενῶς ἡ γραφὴ λέγει ,  ἢ πρὸς φθόνον ; οὐδὲν τούτων · ἀλλ ʼ ἐπιποθεῖ κ . τ . λ . But, as Huther remarks, this necessity for  ἤ sufficiently condemns this view: and thus ἐπιποθεῖ would be left here without any qualifying adverb to fill out its sense. β . Taking then  πρὸς φθόνον with  ἐπιποθεῖ , we have the following various views taken:
	 Ι  .   πνεῦμα as the  subject . And herein
	 A.   τὸ πν  . = the human spirit, in its natural condition. So Hottinger, “Animus hominis natura fertur ad invidendum aliis:” so also Beza, Laurentius, Grot., al., and E.V.
	 B.   τὸ πν  . = the Spirit of God, whom God hath caused to take up His dwelling in us: and then
	a.  πρὸς φθ  . = “  ad invidiam :” in which case the clause is interrogative: “Num ad invidiam proclivis est Spiritus, qui nobis inest? minime:” similarly Bed [12] (“Numquid spiritus gratiæ, quo significati estis in die redemptions, hoc concupiscit ut invideatis alterutrum”), Witsius, Calv., Wolf, al.
	 [12] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	b.  πρὸς φθ  . = “  contra invidiam :” so Luther, der Geist.… gelüstet wider den hass, Pareus, Bengel, al.
	c.  πρὸς φθ  . = “  invidiose :” so De Wette, much as the interp. given above, neidisch lieht (uns) der Geist: so Schneckenburger, and in substance many old Commentators (see Pol. Synops. v. p. 1459, Colossians 1:0 ), rendering it “  usque ad invidiam :” e. g. Tirinus, Menochius, Cajetan, al.
	II.  πνεῦμα as the  object , supplying ὁ θεός as the subject, understanding πν . the human spirit, and taking πρὸς φθόν . adverbially. So Wiesinger, “The Love of God jealously desires as an object your love:” so Theile, supplying however ἡ γραφή as the subject, as also does Œcumenius, continuing from the words cited above, οὐδὲν τούτων · ἀλλ ʼ ἐπιποθεῖ ἤτοι ἐπιζητεῖ τὴν διὰ τῆς παρακλήσεως αὐτῆς ἐγκατοικισθεῖσαν ἡμῖν χάριν : and below, πνεῦμα τὴν ἀγαθήν φησι προαίρεσιν .
	In judging of the above interpretations (the classification of which I have mainly taken from Huther), we may notice, that to interpret πρὸς φθόνον ἐπιποθεῖ , as if it were κατὰ φθόνου ἐπιθυμεῖ , see Galatians 5:17 , is to do violence to the construction and meaning of the words: besides which, there is no mention here of envy, as a human passion, the discourse being of the enmity to God incurred by those who would be friends to the world; of God’s enmity to the proud and upholding of the humble. So that God must be the subject of this clause, as expressed by τὸ πνεῦμα ὃ κατῴκισεν ἐν ἡμῖν . This being so, our only rendering of  πρὸς φθόνον will be as above, adverbially, as so very frequently, e. g. πρὸς δίκην , πρὸς ἡδονήν , πρὸς χάριν , πρὸς λύπην , πρὸς ὀργήν , πρὸς βίαν , πρὸς ὕβριν , &c. &c. See Palm and Rost’s Lex. under πρός , vol. ii. p. 1138, Colossians 2:0 , where many examples are given, e. g. πρὸς χάριν ἢ πρὸς ἀπέχθειαν δικάζειν , Lucian: πρὸς ὀργὴν ἀκούειν , &c. With regard to the sense above given, as fitting into the context, Theile well says,  ἐπιποθεῖν with an accusative, “desiderio alicujus teneri,” to love eagerly, as reff. 2 Cor., Phil., introduces us into the same figurative realm of thought in which μοιχαλίδες placed us before. The Apostle is speaking of the eager and jealous love of God towards those whom He has united as it were in the bond of marriage with Himself.