 5 .]  Or (ref. the formula puts a hypothetical alternative, the assumption of which negatives itself)  do ye think that the Scripture saith in vain, The Spirit that He (God)  placed in us (viz. when the Spirit descended on the church. We have κατοικίζω somewhat similarly used Æsch. Prom. 250, τυφλὰς ἐν τοῖς θνητοῖς ἐλπίδας κατῴκισα )  jealously (  πρὸς φθόνον , as πρὸς βίαν and the like: see below)  desireth (us for his own)? These words connect naturally with the foregoing. We are married to one, even God, who has implanted in us His Spirit: and He is a jealous God, who will not suffer us to be friends of His enemy and His friends at the same time. The only difficulty seems to be, to trace this latter saying in any part of Scripture. For that this is the quotation, and no other, must be maintained against very many Commentators (see below) on account of  λέγει , which can hardly be otherwise used than at introducing the thing said. I will state the solution which seems to me the most probable, and then give an account of other methods of solving it. The emphasis of this clause lies on the  πρὸς φθόνον ἐπιποθεῖ  : and, interpreting those words as above, we are naturally led to ask, is there any chapter or passage especially, where such a mind towards His people is ascribed to God? And this directs our thoughts at once to Deuteronomy 32:0 , where the love of Jehovah for Israel, and His jealousy over them is described. In that song of Moses we have this very word used of God, Deuteronomy 32:10 f., ἐκύκλωσεν αὐτὸν καὶ ἐπαίδευσεν αὐτόν , καὶ διεφύλαξεν αὐτὸν ὡς κόρην ὀφθαλμοῦ · ὡς ἀετὸς σκεπάσαι νοσσιὰν αὐτοῦ καὶ ἐπὶ τοῖς νοσσοῖς αὐτοῦ ἐπεπόθησεν : and Deuteronomy 32:19 , καὶ εἶδεν κύριος καὶ ἐζήλωσεν , καὶ παρωξύνθη δι ʼ ὀργὴν υἱῶν αὐτοῦ καὶ θυγατέρων · καὶ εἶπεν , Ἀποστρέψω τὸ πρόσωπόν μου ἀπ ʼ αὐτῶν κ . τ . λ . So that here we have the elements of the sense of that which is cited, viz. the jealous desire of the Lord over His people. And for the rest, τὸ πνεῦμα ὃ κατῴκισεν ἐν ἡμῖν , the only solution seems to be, that the Apostle translates into the language of the Gospel the former declarations of the God of Israel, e. g. such as that Numbers 35:34 , ἐγὼ γάρ εἰμι κύριος κατασκηνῶν ἐν μέσῳ τῶν υἱῶν Ἰσραήλ , combining them with such prophecies as Ezekiel 36:27 , καὶ τὸ πνεῦμά μου δώσω ἐν ὑμῖν . I own that such a solution does not seem to me wholly satisfactory: still there is nothing improbable in the idea that St. James may have combined the general sense of Scripture on the point of God’s jealousy over His people, and instead of the God who dwelt in Israel, may have placed the Holy Spirit who dwelleth in us. At all events it is better to understand it thus, than to make λέγει mean ‘speaks,’ or to force the words of the citation from their simple meaning. I now proceed to state other interpretations. And 1. of those who have recognized the fact that the words πρὸς φθόνον κ . τ . λ .  are a citation . Of these, understanding the words variously (see below), Grotius believes them to refer to Genesis 6:3 ; Genesis 6:5 ; Beza, Erasm. Schmid, to Genesis 8:21 ; Witsius, to Numbers 11:29 ; Schneckenb. to Deuteronomy 5:9 ff.: Le Clerc, to Psalms 119:20 ff.: Michaelis, to Proverbs 21:10 ; Cocceius, to Song of Solomon 8:6 ; Wetstein, to Wis 6:12 . Others have supposed the N. T. to be intended by ἡ γραφή . Thus Benson believes the reference to be to Matthew 6:24 ; Storr, al., to Galatians 5:17 ; Bengel, to 1 Peter 2:1 ff.: and Semler again, to a passage in the apocryphal book called the Testament of the XII Patriarchs. Bewildered by these differences, many Commentators, among whom are Œc., Bede [11] , Calv., Est., Wolf, al., either deny the fact of a citation altogether, or refer the λέγει either on to the citation following in James 4:6 , or back to what went before, or, as I have done above, believe that the general sense of Scripture on the subject, and not any particular text, is adduced. Before passing from this part of my note, I may remark that Huther’s objection, that against the view here given, the formula citandi, ἡ γραφὴ λέγει , is decisive, is not valid: see Wolf’s Curæ, vol. v. p. 66: and cf. John 7:38 ; John 7:42 , where though the formula εἶπεν ἡ γραφή is used, the general sense, and not the exact words, is given.
	 [11] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.