 11 .]  Do not speak against one another (it is evident what sort of  καταλαλεῖν he means, by the junction of  κρίνειν with it below: it is that kind which follows upon unfavourable judgment: depreciation of character and motive),  brethren (  ἀδελφοί prepares the way for the frequent mention of ἀδελφός below):  he that speaketh against a brother (but not necessarily indefinite: the relations of life, πατήρ , μήτηρ , ἀδελφός &c. frequently lose their articles even when put definitely),  and judgeth his brother (the expression of αὐτοῦ in this second case brings out more strongly the community under the νόμος , which such an one violates),  speaketh against the law (of Christian life: the old moral law glorified and amplified by Christ: the νόμος βασιλικός , ch. James 2:8 ; νόμος τῆς ἐλευθερίας , Jam 1:25 ),  and judgeth the law (viz. by setting himself up over that law, as pronouncing upon its observance or non-observance by another. This is far better, than with Grot., al., “Doctrinam evangelicam homo talis spernit et damnat ut imperfectam: Christus enim tales non damnat:” or than Laurentius, cited with approbation by Huther, “Is qui detrahit proximo, detrahit legi, quia lex prohibet omnem detractionem: sed et judicat idem legem, quia hoc ipso quod contra prohibitionem legis detrahit, judicat quasi, legem non recte prohibuisse.” This is condemned by the word  quasi : for such an argument might be used of every transgressor. See below):  but if (as thou dost)  thou judgest the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge (seeing that he who judges, judges not only the man before him, but the law also: for he pronounces not only on the fact, but on that fact being, or not being, a breach of the law. So that thus to bring men’s actions under the cognizance of the law, is the office of a judge. There is no need to supply νόμου after κριτής : indeed it destroys the sense by removing the point of the assertion. That the evil speaker  judges the law , was before asserted;  now , he is stated to be thereby removed from the Christian brotherhood of doers of the law, and become categorically  a judge . And then in the next verse, the inconsistency and absurdity of his placing himself in that category is shewn).