Verse Acts 20:4. And there accompanied him — Rather, says Bishop Pearce, there followed him as far as to Asia; for they were not in his company till he set sail from Philippi, and came to them at Troas, in Asia, whither they had gone before, and where they tarried for him, Acts 20:5.Into Asia — αχρι της ασιας; These words are wanting in two MSS., Erpen, the AEthiopic, Coptic, and Vulgate. Some think that they embarrass this place; for how these could accompany him into Asia, and go before him, and tarry for him at Troas, Acts 20:6, is not so very clear; unless we suppose, what I have glanced at in the table of contents, that they came with him to Asia, but, he tarrying a short time, they proceeded on their journey, and stopped for him at Troas, where he shortly after rejoined them. Mr. Wakefield gets rid of the difficulty by reading the verse thus: Now Sopater of Berea accompanied him; but Aristarchus and Secundus of Thessalonica, Gaius of Derbe, Timothy of Lystra, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia, went before, and tarried for us at Troas.Sopater of Berea — Sopater seems to be the same as Sosipater, whom St. Paul mentions as his kinsman, Romans 16:21. ADE, more than twenty others, with the Coptic, Armenian, later Syriac in the margin, Vulgate, Itala, Theophylact, Origen, and Bede, add πυρρου Sopater the SON OF PYRRHUS. Griesbach has received this into his text.Aristarchus of Thessalonica — This person occurs in Acts 19:29, and is mentioned there as a Macedonian. He attended Paul in his journey to Rome, Acts 27:2, and was his fellow labourer, Philemon 1:24, and his fellow prisoner, Colossians 4:10-11. Secundus is mentioned nowhere but in this place.Gaius of Derbe — This is supposed to be the same who is mentioned Acts 19:26, and who is there called a man of Macedonia, of which some suppose he was a native, but descended from a family that came from Derbe; but as Gaius, or Caius, was a very common name, these might have been two distinct persons. One of this name was baptized by St. Paul at Corinth, 1 Corinthians 1:14, and entertained him as his host while he abode there, Romans 16:23, and was probably the same to whom St. John directs his third epistle.And Timotheus — Of Lystra, is added by the Syriac. This was the same person of whom mention is made, Acts 16:1, and to whom St. Paul wrote the two epistles which are still extant; and who was a native of Lystra, as we learn from the above place. It was on this evidence, probably that the ancient Syriac translator added, of Lystra, to the text. This reading is not supported by any MSS.Tychicus-of Asia — This person was high in the confidence of St. Paul. He styles him a beloved brother, and faithful minister in the Lord, whom he sent to the Ephesians, that he might know their affairs, and comfort their hearts, Ephesians 6:21-22. He sent him for the same purpose, and with the same commendations, to the Colossians, Colossians 4:7-8. Paul seems also to have designed him to superintend the Church at Crete in the absence of Titus; see Titus 3:12. He seems to have been the most intimate and confidential friend that Paul had.Trophimus. — Was an Ephesian; and both he and Tychicus are called εφεσιοι, Ephesians, instead of ασιανοι, Asiatics, in the Codex Bezae, both Greek and Latin, and in the Sahidic. He accompanied Paul from Ephesus into Greece, as we see here; and from thence to Jerusalem, Acts 21:29. He had, no doubt, travelled with him on other journeys, for we find, by 2 Timothy 4:20, that he was obliged to leave him sick at Miletus, being then, as it is likely, on his return to his own kindred at Ephesus.