 17.   κατασείσας ] see reff. His motive was  haste : he tells briefly the particulars of his deliverance, and, while it was yet night, hastily departs.
	 Ἰακώβῳ ] James,  the brother of the Lord , whom we find presiding over the church at Jerusalem, ch. Acts 15:13 ; Acts 21:18 ; Galatians 2:12 . See Galatians 1:19 ; Galatians 2:9 . He appears also to be mentioned in 1 Corinthians 15:7 . I believe him to have been one of those ἀδελφοὶ τοῦ κυρίου mentioned Matthew 13:55 ; John 7:5 ; ch. Acts 1:14 ; 1 Corinthians 9:5 , of whom I have in the note on the first of these passages maintained, that they were His real maternal brethren, sons of Joseph and Mary: to have been an  Apostle , as Paul and Barnabas, but not of the number of the twelve (see note on ch. Act 14:4 ): and to have been therefore of course distinct from James the son of Alphæus, enumerated (Matthew 10:3 [61] )  among the twelve. The reasons for this belief I reserve for the Prolegomena to the Epistle of James.
	 [61] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 εἰς ἕτερον τόπον ] I see in these words a minute mark of truth in our narrative. Under the circumstances, the place of Peter’s retreat would very naturally at the time be kept secret. It probably was unknown to the person from whom the narrative came, or designedly left indefinite. And so it has remained, the narrative not following Peter’s history any longer. We find him again at Jerusalem in ch. 15. Whether he left it or not on this occasion is uncertain. It is not asserted in ἐξελθών , which only implies that be left the  house .