 1.   κατ  ʼ   ἐκ  .   τ  .   καιρ  . ]  Before the arrival of Barnabas and Saul in Jerusalem. The famine in Judæa broke out under Cuspius Fadus, and continued under Tiberius Alexander, procurators of Judæa. Now Cuspius Fadus was sent to Judæa by Claudius  on the death of Agrippa (i.e. after Aug. 6, A.D. 44). The visit of Barnabas and Saul must have taken place about the time of, or shortly after, Agrippa’s death.
	 Ἡρώδης ὁ βασιλεύς ] HEROD AGRIPPA I., grandson of Herod the Great, son of Aristobulus and Berenice (Jos. Antt. xvii. 1.2; B. J. i. 28.1). Having gone to Rome, to accuse Herod the Tetrarch (Antipas), and fallen under the displeasure of Tiberius for paying open court to Caius Cæsar (Caligula), he was imprisoned and cruelly treated; but, on the accession of Caligula, released, and at once presented with the tetrarchy of Philip (Trachonitis), who had lately died, and the title of king. On this, Antipas, by persuasion of his wife Herodias, went to Rome, to try to obtain the royal title also, but was followed by his enemy Agrippa, who managed to get Antipas banished to Spain, and to obtain his tetrarchy (Galilee and Peræa) for himself. (Jos. Antt. xix. 8. 2.) Finally, Claudius, in return for services rendered to him by Agrippa, at the time of Caligula’s death, presented him with Samaria and Judæa (about 41 A.D., Jos. Antt. xix. 5. 1), so that he now ruled (Jos. ibid.) all the kingdom of Herod the Great. His character, as given by Josephus, Antt. xix. 7. 3, is important as illustrating the present chapter: ἐπεφύκει δὲ ὁ βασιλεὺς οὗτος εὐεργετικὸς εἶναι ἐν δωρεαῖς , καὶ μεγαλοφρονῆσαι ἔθνη φιλότιμος , καὶ πολλοῖς ἀθρόως δαπανήμασιν ἀνιστὰς αὑτὸν εἰς ἐπιφάνειαν , ἡδόμενος τῷ χαρίζεσθαι , καὶ τῷ βιοῦν ἐν εὐφημίᾳ χαίρων … (see Act 12:3 ) … πραῢς δὲ ὁ τρόπος Ἀγρίππᾳ , καὶ πρὸς πάντας τὸ εὐεργετικὸν ὅμοιον . ἡδεῖα γοῦν αὐτῷ δίαιτα καὶ συνεχὴς ἐν τοῖς Ἱεροσολύμοις ἦν , καὶ τὰ πάτρια καθαρῶς ἐτήρει . διὰ πάσης γοῦν αὑτὸν ἦγεν ἁγνείας , οὐδὲ ἡμέρα τὶς παρώδευεν αὐτῷ τῆς νομίμης χηρεύουσα θυσίας . This character will abundantly account for his persecuting the Christians, who were so odious to the Jews, and for his vain-glorious acceptance of the impious homage of the people, Acts 12:23 .
	 ἐπέβ  .   τ  .   χεῖρ  . ] A pregnant construction. In full, it would be ἐπέβ . τὰς χ . ἐπί τινας τῶν ἀπὸ τ . ἐκκ ., τοῦ κακῶσαι αὐτούς . Some expositors (Heinr., Kuin.), not seeing this, have endeavoured to give to ἐπέβ . τ . χ . the unexampled meaning, not justified by Deuteronomy 12:7 ; Deuteronomy 15:10 , of ‘  took in hand,’ ‘attempted .’ The E. V. ‘  stretched forth his hands ’ (or, marg. ‘  began ’) is equally inadmissible. It should be,  H. the K. laid his hands on certain of the church, to vex them.
	 τῶν ἀπό ] See reff., and compare ch. Acts 6:9 .