Brethren [αδελφοι] . The correct reading is ajgaphoi beloved. The first occurrence of this title, which is suggested by the previous words concerning the relation of love. No new commandment [ουκ εντολην καινην] . The Rev., properly, places these words first in the sentence as emphatic, the point of the verse lying in the antithesis between the new and the old. On new, see on Matthew 26:29. Old [παλαιαν] . Four words are used in the New Testament for old or elder. Of these gerwn and presbuterov refer merely to the age of men, or, the latter, to official position based primarily upon age. Hence the official term elder. Between the two others, ajrcaiov and palaiov, the distinction is not sharply maintained. Arcaiov emphasizes the reaching back to a beginning [αρχη] . Thus Satan is "that old [αρχαιος] serpent," whose evil work was coeval with the beginning of time (Revelation 7:9; Revelation 20:2). The world before the flood is "the old [αρχαιος] world" (2 Peter 2:5). Mnason was "an old [αρχαιος] disciple;" not aged, but having been a disciple from the beginning (Acts 21:16). Sophocles, in "Trachiniae," 555, gives both words. "I had an old [παλαιον] gift," i e., received long ago, "from the old [αρχαιου] Centaur." The Centaur is conceived as an old - world creature, belonging to a state of things which has passed away. It carries, therefore, the idea of old fashioned : peculiar to an obsolete state of things. Palaiov carries the sense of worn out by time, injury, sorrow, or other causes. Thus the old garment (Matthew 9:16) is palaion. So the old wine - skins (Matthew 9:17). The old men of a living generation compared with the young of the same generation are palaioi. In palaiov the simple conception of time dominates. In ajrcaiov there is often a suggestion of a character answering to the remote age. The commandment is here called old because it belonged to the first stage of the Christian church. Believers had had it from the beginning of their Christian faith. Commandment. The commandment of love. Compare John 13:34. This commandment is fulfilled in walking as Christ walked. Compare Ephesians 5:1, Ephesians 5:2.