New commandment. The commandment of love is both old and new. Old, because John's readers have had it from the beginning of their Christian experience. New, because, in the unfolding of Christian experience, it has developed new power, meaning, and obligation, and closer correspondence "with the facts of Christ 's life, with the crowning mystery of His passion, and with the facts of the Christian life." Which thing is true [ο εστιν αληθες] . The expression which thing, or that which, refers either to the commandment of love, or to the fact stated, viz., that the old commandment is new. The fact that the old commandment is new is true in Him and in us. On the whole I prefer this. In Him and in us. For us, read you. The fact that the old commandment is new, is true in Him (Christ), since He gave it as a new commandment, and illustrated it by His word and example. It is true in you, since you did not receive it until Christ gave it, and since the person and life of Christ are appealing to you in new lights and with fresh power as your Christian life develops. In Him, points back to as He walked. Because. Explaining the apparent paradox. The darkness [η σκοτια] . See on John 1:5. God is light; and whatever is not in fellowship with God is therefore darkness. In all cases where the word is not used of physical darkness, it means moral insensibility to the divine light; moral blindness or obtuseness. Compare John 8:12; John 12:35, John 12:46; l John 2:9, John 2:11. Is past [παραγεται] . Wrong. The passing is not represented as accomplished, but as in progress. Rev., rightly rendering the present tense, is passing away. The true light [το φως το αληθινον] . Lit., the light, the true (light). See on that eternal life (i. 2). True, not as distinguished from false, but as answering to the true ideal. See on John 1:9. The true light is the revelation of God in Christ. See on 1 John 1:5. Shineth [φαινει] . See on John 1:5. Compare Revelation 1:16; Revelation 8:12; Revelation 21:23; 2 Peter 1:19. See also Romans 13:11 sqq.; Titus 2:11; Titus 3:4.