 16. ]  So that (  accordingly , consistently with our judgment expressed 2Co 5:15 )  we (in opposition to our adversaries, the false teachers: not  general , of  all Christians , as De W., but as yet spoken, as the emphatic position of ἡμεῖς shews, of the Apostle himself (and his colleagues?))  from this time (since this great event, the Death of Christ)  know no man according to (as he is in)  the flesh (Meyer well remarks: “Since all are (ethically) dead, and each man is bound to live only to Christ, not to himself, our knowledge of others must be altogether independent of that which they are κατὰ σάρκα , must not be regulated κατὰ σάρκα . And the connexion of 2Co 5:16 with 2Co 5:15 shews that we must not take κατὰ σάρκα as the  subjective rule of οἴδαμεν , so that the explanation would be, ‘according to mere human knowledge,’ ‘apart from the enlightening of the Holy Spirit,’ cf. ch. 2 Corinthians 1:17 ; 1 Corinthians 1:26 , but as the  objective rule, cf. ch. 2 Corinthians 11:18 ; John 8:15 ; Philippians 3:4 , so that εἰδέναι τινὰ κατὰ σάρκα = ‘  to know any one according to his mere human individuality ,’ ‘to know him as men have judged him by what he is in the flesh,’ not by what he is κατὰ πνεῦμα , as a Christian, as καινὴ κτίσις , 2 Corinthians 5:17 . He who knows no man κατὰ σάρκα has, e.g. in the case of the Jew, entirely lost sight of his Jewish origin, in that of the rich man, of his riches, in that of the learned, of his learning, in that of the slave, of his servitude, &c., cf. Gal 3:28 ”):  if even we have ( εἰ καί  concedes what follows; πόλιν μεν , εἰ καὶ μὴ βλέπεις , φρονεῖς δ ʼ ὅμως , οἵᾳ νόσῳ ξύνεστι , Soph. Œd. Tyr. 302, but also, as distinguished from καὶ εἰ ,  introduces no climax , and distributes the force of the over καί the whole concessive clause, whereas in καὶ εἰ it is confined to the conditional particle εἰ , see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 139)  known Christ according to the flesh, now however we know Him (thus) no longer . The fact alluded to in the concessive clause, is, not any personal knowledge of the Lord Jesus while He was on earth, but that view of Him which Paul took  before his conversion , when he knew Him only according to His outward apparent standing in this world,  only as Jesus of Nazareth .  χριστόν is not = τὸν χριστόν , ‘  the Christ,’ but merely as a proper name designating Him whom he now knew as Christ.
	Observe, the stress is  not on χριστόν , q. d. ‘If we have known  even Christ after the flesh,’ &c., as usually understood; the position of χρ . forbids this, which would require εἰ καὶ χριστὸν ἐγν . κ . σάρ ., but on  ἐγνώκαμεν , as belonging to the  past , contrasted with our  present knowledge. Observe likewise, that the position of κατὰ σάρκα , as above also, forbids its being taken as the subjective qualification of ἐγνώκαμεν , as = εἰ καὶ κατὰ σάρκα ἐγν . χρ ., or εἰ κ . ἐγν . χρ . κ . σάρκ ., and fixes it as belonging to χριστόν , ‘  Christ according to the flesh .’ St. Paul now, since his conversion, knew Him no longer as thus shewn, but as ὁρισθέντα υἱὸν θεοῦ ἐν δυνάμει , κατὰ πνεῦμα ἁγιωσύνης . At that time, εὐδόκησεν ὁ ἀφορίσας με …  ἀποκαλύψαι τὸν υἱὸν αὐτοῦ ἐν ἐμοί , Galatians 1:15-16 . See by all means Stanley’s remarks, on the absence of all local and personal recollections of our Lord’s life, in the apostolic ago.