 3. ]  seeing that (  εἴ γε (see var. readd.) is used ‘de re, quæ jure sumta creditur:’  εἴπερ , when ‘in incerto relinquitur, utrum jure an injuria sumatur.’ Herm. ad Viger., p. 834. So Xen. Mem. ii. 17, ἀλλὰ γάρ , ὦ Σ ., οἱ εἰς τὴν βασιλικὴν τέχνην παιδευόμενοι , ἢν δοκεῖς μοι σὺ νομίζειν εὐδαιμονίαν εἶναι , τί διαφέρουσι τῶν ἐξ ἀνάγκης κακοπαθούντων ,  εἴ γε πεινήσουσι κ . διψή  σουσι , κ . τ . λ ., ‘  if they are to hunger and thirst , &c.’ and for  εἴπερ , Æsch. Ag. 29 f. εἴπερ Ἰλίου πόλις ἑάλωκεν , ὡς ὁ φρυκτὸς ἀγγέλλων πρέπει , ‘  if, that is, the city , &c.’)  we shall really ( καί , ‘  in very truth :’ so Soph. Antig. 766, ἄμφω γὰρ αὐτὰ καὶ κατακτεῖναι νοεῖς ; ‘  dost thou intend verily to kill them both ?’ and Æsch. Sept. Theb. 810, ἐκεῖθι κἦλθον ; ‘  have they really come to that ?’ See more examples in Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 132)  be found (shall prove to be)  clothed (‘  having put on clothing,’ viz.  a body ),  not naked (  without a body “ ἐνδυς ., οὐ γυμν ., as γάλα , οὐ βρῶμα , 1Co 3:2 and often, cf. 2 Corinthians 5:7 .” Meyer. See Stanley’s note). The verse  asserts strongly , with a view to substantiate and explain 2 Corinthians 5:2 , the  truth of the resurrection or  glorified body ; and, with Meyer, I see in it a reference to the deniers of the resurrection, whom the Apostle combated in 1 Corinthians 15:0 .: its sense being this: “  For I do assert again, that we shall in that day prove to be clothed with a body, and not disembodied spirits .”
	Several other renderings have been given: (1) ‘  Si nos iste dies deprehendet cum corpore, non exutos a corpore , si erimus inter mutandos, non inter mortuos,’ Grot.: Estius, Bengel, Conyb., al. To this there are  three objections, that εἴ  γε should be εἴ  περ (the force of this objection is however much weakened by the amount of authority which can be adduced for εἴπερ ), that καί is  not rendered at all , and that ἐνδυσάμενοι , the  aor. mid ., should be ἐνδεδυμένοι , the  perf. pass . (2) The same objections apply to Billroth’s rendering, ‘  If we, having been once clothed (with the earthly body),  shall not be found naked ’ (without the body). (3) De Wette renders: ‘  seeing that when we are also (really)  clothed, we shall not be found naked :’ i.e. ‘setting down for certain as we do, that that heavenly dwelling  will also be a body .’ To this Meyer rightly objects, that it is open to the difficulty of making ἔνδυσις and γυμνότης , and that in the  very sense in which they are  opposites , to  co-exist; no clothing but that of a body is thought of here, or else οὐ  σώματος γυμνοί must have been expressed. (4) This latter objection applies to the rendering of Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Œcum., al., who take ἐνδυσάμενοι = σῶμα ἄφθαρτον λαβόντες , and γυμνοί to mean γυμνοὶ δόξης . Similarly Anselm explains γυμνοί , ‘nudi  Christo ;’ Pelagius, Hunnius, and Baldwin, ‘vacui  fide :’ Erasm. Paraphr. ‘si tamen hoc exuti corpore non omnino nudi reperiamur, sed ex bonæ vitæ fiducia spe immortalitatis amicti:’ in part too Calvin, restricting it however to the faithful only, ‘if at least we, having put on Christ in this life, shall not be found naked then.’ Olshausen too takes οὐ γυμνοί as an expansion of ἐνδυσάμενοι , ‘provided that we shall be found clothed with the robe of righteousness, not denuded of it.’ Of all these we may say, that if the Apostle had meant by γυμνοί to hint at  any other kind of γυμνότης than that which the similitude obviously implies, he would have certainly indicated it. (5) The rendering of εἰ ‘  utinam ,’ ‘utinam etiam induti, non nudi reperiamur!’ as Knatchbull and Homberg, need hardly be refuted. (6) Another class of renderings arise from the reading  ἐκ δυσάμενοι in a few cursives, which in connexion with εἴπερ was evidently adopted in consequence of the views of expositors. It stood as a  conditional sentence, ‘  provided, that is, that ’ … and in the idea that it referred to the  time after putting off the mortal body,  ἐν was altered to  ἐκ .
	For much of the reference to opinions in this note I am indebted to Meyer and De Wette.