 21. ]  States the great fact on which the exhortation to be reconciled is grounded : viz. the  unspeakable gift of God, to bring about the reconciliation. It is introduced without a γάρ (which has been supplied), as still forming part of the λόγος τῆς καταλλαγῆς .  Him who knew not sin ( τὸν οὐ γνόντα would merely assert  the fact , that up to the time of ἐποίησεν , He was ignorant of sin. But μή with a participle, as has been observed since the doctrine of the particles has been more accurately studied, always denies  subjectively , i.e. in reference to the view of some person who is the subject, or to the hypothesis of some person who is the direct or indirect utterer of the assertion. Cf. note on ch. 2 Corinthians 4:18 .
	With what reference then is the particle here used? Fritz. (in Meyer) thinks, to  the Christian’s necessary idea of Christ, “quem talem virum mente concipimus, qui sceleris notitiam non habuerit:” Meyer, and Winer, edn. 6, § 55. 5. β , to  God’s judgment of Him. I much prefir to either regarding it as subjective with reference to  Christ  Himself , Who said, John 8:46 , τίς ἐξ ὑμῶν ἐλέγχει με περὶ ἁμαρτίας ; He was thus ὁ μὴ γνοὺς ἁμαρτίαν (see Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 131, who gives among other examples, one very similar, from Thucyd. i. 118, ἡσύχαζόν τε τὸ πλέον τοῦ χρόνου ,  ὄντες καὶ πρὸ τοῦ  μὴ ταχεῖς ἰέναι ἐς τοὺς πολέμους ), ‘  knew not ,’ i.e. by contact, by personal experience, ‘  sin .’ See, for the  sense , 1 Peter 2:22 ; Heb 7:26 ),  on our behalf (or,  instead of us : I prefer here the former, because the purpose of the verse is to set forth how great things God has done  for us : the other, though true, does not seem so applicable.
	The words ὑπὲρ ἡμ . are emphatic)  He made (  to be )  sin (not, ‘  a sin-offering ,’ as Augustine, Ambros., Œcum., Erasm., Hammond, Wolf, al., for the word seems  never to have the meaning , even in the LXX (see however the remarkable reading of the Codex A at Lev 6:25 ); and if it had, the former sense of the same word in this same sentence would preclude it here: nor = ἁμαρτωλός , as Meyer, al.: but, as De Wette, al., SIN, abstract, as opposed to RIGHTEOUSNESS which follows; compare κατάρα , Galatians 3:13 . He, on the Cross, was  the Representative of Sin , of the sin of the world),  that we might become (the present, γινώμ . as in rec., would signify, as Stallbaum, Crito, p. 43 (Meyer) ‘id quod propositum fuerit, nondum perfectum et transactum esse, sed adhuc durare.’ The aor., which is supported by all the MSS., also yields the best sense, as joining the whole justification of all God’s people, as one act accomplished, with the Sacrifice of Christ)  the righteousness of God (see above: representatives of the Righteousness of God, endued with it and viewed as  in it , and  examples of it )  in Him (in union with Him, and by virtue of our standing in Him).