 11. ]  Being then conscious of (‘  no strangers to :’ so Homer freq., e.g. ἀθεμίστια εἰδώς )  the fear of the Lord (not, as Chrys. and most of the ancient Commentators = τὸ φοβερὸν τ . κυρ ., so also Beza and Estius, ‘  terrorem Domini,’ and E. V., ‘the terror of the Lord;’ but as Vulg., ‘  timorem Domini,’ this wholesome fear of Christ as our Judge: see reff. The expression is particularly appropriate for one who had been suspected of double dealing and insincerity: he was inwardly conscious of the principle of the fear of God guiding and leading him),  we persuade men (the stress on ἀνθρώπους , ‘  it is MEN  that we attempt to persuade.’
	Of what? Beza, Grot., al.,  of the truth of Christ’s religion; win them to Christ , which however suits the rendering ‘  terrorem Domini,’ better than the right one: Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., ‘  of our own integrity ,’ and so in the main, Estius, Bengel, Olsh., De Wette, and Meyer, though he seems to object to it, for he connects the words with the φιλοτιμία of 2 Corinthians 5:9 : Erasm., Luther, Wolf, Hammond, al., understand πείθομεν of the  endeavour to make ourselves acceptable to men ; Cornel.-a-Lapide, Le Clerc, al., ‘  eundem hunc timorem hominibus suademus.’ But from the context, it must have reference to  ourselves ; and I therefore agree with Chrys., al., as above [I may remind the English reader that there are few texts so much perverted as this one, owing to the rendering of the E. V. It is frequently understood and preached upon, as if it meant, “  Knowing how terrible God is, we persuade others to fear Him :” a meaning as far as possible from the Apostle’s mind]),  but to God we are already manifested (we have no need to persuade HIM of our integrity, for He knows all things);  and I hope (am confident)  that we have been manifested (Meyer remarks, that ἐλπίζω in the N. T. elsewhere has only the inf. aor.; here however the inf. perfect is logically necessary. He hopes, that the manifestation  is complete . Cf. Acts 27:13 , δόξαντες τῆς προθέσεως κεκρατηκέναι , and Hom. Il. ο . 110, ἤδη γὰρ νῦν ἔλπομ ʼ Ἄρηΐ γε πῆμα τετύχθαι )  in your consciences also.