 1. ]  For (gives the reason of ch. 2 Corinthians 4:17 , principally of the emphatic words of that verse καθ ʼ ὑπερβολὴν εἰς ὑπερβ ., shewing how it is that so wonderful a process takes place)  we know (as in ch. 2 Corinthians 4:14 , are convinced, as a sure matter of hope)  that if (‘  supposing ;’ not = κἄν , ‘etiamsi,’ but indefinite and doubtful: if this delivering to death continually should end in veritable death. The case is hypothetical, because many will be glorified without the κατάλυσις taking place: see 1 Corinthians 15:51 ; 1Co 15:53 )  our earthly tabernacle-dwelling ( τοῦ σκήνους is gen. of apposition. The similitude is not derived from the wandering of the Israelites in the wilderness, nor from the tabernacle, but is a common one with Greek writers, see examples in Wetstein. “The whole passage is expressed through the double figure of a house or tent, and a garment. The explanation of this abrupt transition from one to the other may be found in the image which, both from his occupation and his birthplace, would naturally occur to the Apostle, the tent of Cilician hair-cloth, which might almost equally suggest the idea of a habitation and of a vesture.” Stanley. Chrys. observes: εἰπὼν οἰκίαν σκήνους , καὶ τὸ εὐδιάλυτον καὶ πρόσκαιρον δείξας ἐντεῦθεν , ἀντέθηκε τὴν αἰωνίαν · τὸ γὰρ τῆς σκηνῆς ὄνομα τὸ πρόσκαιρον πολλάκις δείκνυσι . Hom. x. p. 506)  were dissolved (‘mite verbum,’ Bengel: i.e. ‘  taken down ,’ ‘done away with:’ but ‘  dissolved ,’ as well as the vulg. ‘dissolvatur,’ is right),  we have in the heavens (as Meyer rightly remarks, the  present is used of the time at which the dissolution shall have taken place. But even then the dead have it not in  actual possession , but only prepared by God for them against the appearing of the Lord: and therefore they are said to have it  in the heavens . Chrys., &c., Beza, Grot., al., join ἐν τοῖς οὐρ . with οἰκίαν , which can hardly be: it would be either ἐπουράνιον or ἐξ οὐρανοῦ . The E. V. according to the present punctuation, yields no sense: ‘  not made with hands, eternal in the heavens ’)  a building (no longer a σκῆνος )  from God (‘in an especial manner prepared by God,’ ‘  pure from God’s hands :’ not as  contrasted with our earthly body, which, see 1 Corinthians 12:18 ; 1 Corinthians 12:24 , is also  from God),  a dwelling not made with hands (here again, not as contrasted with  the fleshly body , for  that too is ἀχειροποίητος , but with other οἰκίαι , which are χειροποίητοι . Remember again the Apostle’s occupation of a tent-maker),  eternal . A difficulty has been raised by some Commentators respecting the  intermediate disembodied state , how the Apostle here regards it, or whether he regards it at all. But none need be raised. The οἰκία which in this verse is said,  at the time of dissolution , to be  ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς , is,  when we put it on , in the next verse, our οἰκητήριον τὸ  ἐξ οὐρανοῦ . Thus the intermediate state, though lightly passed over, as not belonging to the subject, is evidently in the mind of St. Paul. Some Commentators, Photius, Anselm, Thomas Aq. (in Estius), Wolf, Rosenm., al., understand  these words themselves ( οἰκ . ἀχειρ . αἰών . ἐν τ . οὐρ .) of the  intermediate state of absence from the body ; Usteri and Flatt, of an  immediate glorified body in heaven , to be united with the body of the resurrection. Calvin hesitates: “Incertum est, an significet statum beatæ immortalitatis, qui post mortem fideles manet, an vero corpus incorruptibile et gloriosum, quale post resurrectionem erit. In utrovis sensu nihil est incommodi: quanquam malo ita accipere, ut initium hujus ædificii sit beatus animæ status post mortem: consummatio autem sit gloria ultimæ resurrectionis.” But if this be so, (1) the parallel will not hold, between the οἰκία in one case, and the οἰκία in the other, and (2) the language of 2Co 5:2 is against it, see below.