 15. ] [  having judged this (i.e.]  because we formed this judgment , viz. at our conversion: learned to regard this as a settled truth)  that One died on behalf of all (not only, for the  benefit of all, as Meyer, but  instead of all, suffered death in the root and essence of our humanity, as the second Adam. This death on behalf of  all men is the absolute objective fact: that  all enter not into the benefit of that Death, is owing to the non-fulfilment of the subjective condition which follows),  therefore all died (i.e. therefore, in the death of Christ,  all, the all for whom He died, οἱ πάντες ,  died too : i.e. see below, became planted in the likeness of His death, died to sin and to self, that they might live to Him. This was true,  objectively , but  not subjectively till such death to sin and self is realized in each: see Romans 6:8 ff.). The other renderings, ‘  ought to die ,’ as Thomas Aq., Grot., Estius, al., ‘  were under sentence of death ,’ as Chrys., Theodoret, Beza, al.; ‘  as good as died , Flatt; are shewn to be erroneous by carefully noticing the construction, with or without εἰ . The  verb is common to both members of the sentence; the correspondent emphatic words in the two members being (1)  εἷς ὑπὲρ πάντων , (2)  πάντες : ‘(  One on behalf of all ) died, therefore (  all ) died: if  One died the death of (belonging to, due from) all, then all died (in and with Him).’
	Meyer’s rendering of ὅτι  because , can hardly be right as it would leave κρίναντας τοῦτο standing awkwardly alone.  And He died for all, in order that they who live (in  this life , see ἡμεῖς οἱ ζῶντες , ch. 2 Corinthians 4:11 ; = in sense, ‘  as long as they are in this state ,’ as De W.: not, ‘those who live  spiritually ,’ as Beza, Flatt, which would altogether strike out the sense, for it is,  that they may live spiritually, &c.: nor, ‘  superstites ,’ they whom He left behind at His death, ζῶντες in contrast with Him who ἀπέθανεν , as Meyer; for, not to insist on the more general reference to  all time , many to whom the Apostle was now writing were  not born at the time of His Death )  should no longer (now that His Death has taken place: or, as they did before they apprehended that Death as theirs, but I prefer the former, see ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν below)  live to themselves (with  self as their great source and end of action, to please and to obey)  but to Him that died and rose again for them (  ὑπέρ , not merely even as connected with ἐγερθέντι ‘  for the benefit of ,’ as Meyer again; but strictly ‘  in the place of :’ as the Death of Christ is  our death , so His Resurrection is  our resurrection ).