 6 8. ]  He returns to the confidence expressed in 2 Corinthians 5:1 ; that  however this may be , whether this wish is to be fulfilled or not,  he is prepared to accept the alternative of being denuded of the body, seeing that it will bring with it a translation to the presence of the Lord .
	 Being confident then (because it is God’s express purpose to bring us to glory, as in last verse)  always (either  under all trials : or,  always, whether this hope of ἐπενδύσασθαι or  the fear of the other alternative, be before us , which latter I prefer),  and knowing (not as the  ground of our confidence , as Calv., al., nor as  an exception to it, ‘  though we know ,’ as Est., Olsh., al., but  correlative with it , and the  ground of the  εὐδοκοῦμεν below)  that while in our home in the body, we are absent from [our home in] the Lord (the similitude of the body as our οἰκία being still kept up: see similar sentiments, respecting our being wanderers and strangers from our heavenly home while dwelling in the body, Philippians 3:20 ; Hebrews 11:13 ; Heb 13:14 ),  for (proof of our ἐκδημία ἀπὸ τ . κυρ .)  we walk (the usual figurative sense, ‘go on our Christian course,’ not literal, as of pilgrims)  by means of (not ‘  in a state of ,’ nor ‘  through ,’ as the element through which our life moves, Meyer; who is thereby necessitated to interpret the two prepositions differently, see below)  faith, not by means of appearance ( εἶδος  cannot possibly be subjective , as rendered in E. V. and by many Commentators; see reff. i.e. ‘faith, not the actual appearance of heavenly things themselves, is the means whereby we hold on our way,’ a sure sign that we are  absent from those heavenly things),  notwithstanding (I say) (he resumes the θαῤῥοῦντες , which was apparently at first intended to belong to εὐδοκοῦμεν , by the  indicative , inserting the δέ because the last clause seemed something like a  dash to that confidence)  we are confident, and are well pleased rather to go from (out of) four home in] the body and come to our home with the Lord : i.e. ‘if (as in 2Co 5:1 ) a dissolution of the body be imminent, even that, though not according to our wish, does not destroy our confidence: for so sensible are we that dwelling in the body is a state of banishment from the Lord, that we prefer to it even the alternative of dissolution, bringing us, as it will, into His presence.’
	Meyer regards ἐκδημ . and ἐνδημ . as equivalent to the  putting off of the mortal (but how?) and  putting on the immortal body at the coming of the Lord: but surely by this the whole sense is destroyed. The Apostle, it seems to me, carefully chooses the words, new to the context, ἐκδημεῖν and ἐνδημεῖν , to  avoid such an inference, and to express, as he does in Philippians 1:23 , then in the actual prospect of death, that τὸ ἀναλῦσαι is equivalent to σὺν χριστῷ εἶναι : for  here is no hint of the new house from heaven, only of a certain indefinite ἐνδημία πρὸς τὸν κύριον , which is all that is revealed to us, and it would seem was all that was revealed to  him , of the  disembodied state of the blessed. I may remark that Meyer, whose commentary on this Epistle is most able and thorough, has been misled in this passage by an endeavour to range the whole of it under the specific wish of 2 Corinthians 5:2-4 .