4. more excellent sacrifice—because
	offered in faith. Now faith must have some revelation
	of God on which it fastens. The revelation in this case was
	doubtless God's command to sacrifice animals ("the
	firstlings of the flock") in token of the forfeiture of men's
	life by sin, and as a type of the promised bruiser of the serpent's
	head (Genesis 3:15), the one coming
	sacrifice: this command is implied in God's having made coats of skin
	for Adam and Eve (Genesis 3:21): for
	these skins must have been taken from animals slain in sacrifice:
	inasmuch as it was not for food they were slain, animal food
	not being permitted till after the flood; nor for mere clothing,
	as, were it so, clothes might have been made of the fleeces without
	the needless cruelty of killing the animal; but a coat of skin put on
	Adam from a sacrificed animal typified the covering or atonement (the
	Hebrew for atone means to cover) resulting from
	Christ's sacrifice. The Greek is more literally rendered
	[KENNICOTT] by WYCLIFFE,
	"a much more sacrifice"; and by Queen Elizabeth's
	version "a greater sacrifice." A fuller, more ample
	sacrifice, that which partook more largely and essentially of the
	true nature and virtue of sacrifice [ARCHBISHOP
	MAGEE]. It was not any
	intrinsic merit in "the firstling of the flock" above "the
	fruit of the ground." It was God's appointment that gave it all
	its excellency as a sacrifice; if it had not been so, it would have
	been a presumptuous act of will-worship (Genesis 3:21- :), and taking of a life which man had no right over before
	the flood (Genesis 9:1-6). The
	sacrifice seems to have been a holocaust, and the sign of the divine
	acceptance of it was probably the consumption of it by fire from
	heaven (Genesis 15:17). Hence, "to
	accept" a burnt sacrifice is in Hebrew "to turn it
	to ashes" (Psalms 20:3,
	Margin). A flame seems to have issued from the Shekinah, or
	flaming cherubim, east of Eden ("the presence of the Lord,"
	Genesis 4:16), where the first
	sacrifices were offered. Cain, in unbelieving self-righteousness,
	presented merely a thank offering, not like Abel feeling his
	need of the propitiatory sacrifice appointed on account of sin. God
	"had respect (first) unto Abel, and (then) to his offering"
	(Genesis 4:4). Faith causes the
	believer's person to be accepted, and then his offering. Even an
	animal sacrifice, though of God's appointment, would not have been
	accepted, had it not been offered in faith. 
	he obtained witness—God
	by fire attesting His acceptance of him as "righteous by faith."
	his gifts—the common
	term for sacrifices, implying that they must be freely given.
by it—by faith
	exhibited in his animal sacrifice. 
	dead, yet speaketh—His
	blood crying front the ground to God, shows how precious,
	because of his "faith," he was still in God's sight, even
	when dead. So he becomes a witness to us of the blessed effects of
	faith.