1. Description of the
	great things which faith (in its widest sense: not here
	restricted to faith in the Gospel sense) does for us. Not a
	full definition of faith in its whole nature, but a
	description of its great characteristics in relation to the subject
	of Paul's exhortation here, namely, to perseverance. 
	substance, c.—It
	substantiates promises of God which we hope for, as future in
	fulfilment, making them present realities to us. However, the Greek
	is translated in Hebrews 3:14,
	"confidence" and it also here may mean "sure
	confidence." So ALFORD
	translates. THOMAS
	MAGISTER supports English
	Version, "The whole thing that follows is virtually
	contained in the first principle; now the first commencement
	of the things hoped for is in us through the assent of faith, which
	virtually contains all the things hoped for." Compare Note,
	see on Hebrews 6:5, "tasted . .
	. powers of the world to come." Through faith, the future object
	of Christian hope, in its beginning, is already present. True
	faith infers the reality of the objects believed in and honed for
	(Hebrews 11:6). HUGO
	DE ST. VICTOR
	distinguished faith from hope. By faith alone we
	are sure of eternal things that they ARE:
	but by hope we are confident that WE
	SHALL HAVE them. All hope presupposes faith (Hebrews 11:6- :). 
	evidence—"demonstration":
	convincing proof to the believer: the soul thereby seeing what the
	eye cannot see. 
	things not seen—the
	whole invisible and spiritual world: not things future and things
	pleasant, as the "things hoped for," but also the past and
	present, and those the reverse of pleasant. "Eternal life is
	promised to us, but it is when we are dead: we are told of a blessed
	resurrection, but meanwhile we moulder in the dust; we are declared
	to be justified, and sin dwells in us; we hear that we are blessed,
	meantime we are overwhelmed in endless miseries: we are promised
	abundance of all goods, but we still endure hunger and thirst; God
	declares He will immediately come to our help, but He seems deaf to
	our cries. What should we do if we had not faith and hope to lean on,
	and if our mind did not emerge amidst the darkness above the world by
	the shining of the Word and Spirit of God?" [CALVIN].
	Faith is an assent unto truths credible upon the testimony of God
	(not on the reasonableness of the thing revealed, though by
	this we may judge as to whether it be what it professes, a genuine
	revelation), delivered unto us in the writings of the apostles and
	prophets. Thus Christ's ascension is the cause, and His absence the
	crown, of our faith: because He ascended, we the more believe, and
	because we believe in Him who hath ascended, our faith is the more
	accepted [BISHOP PEARSON].
	Faith believes what it sees not; for if thou seest there is no faith;
	the Lord has gone away so as not to be seen: He is hidden that He may
	be believed; the yearning desire by faith after Him who is unseen is
	the preparation of a heavenly mansion for us; when He shall be seen
	it shall be given to us as the reward of faith [AUGUSTINE].
	As Revelation deals with spiritual and invisible things exclusively,
	faith is the faculty needed by us, since it is the evidence of things
	not seen. By faith we venture our eternal interests on the bare word
	of God, and this is altogether reasonable.