In the previous chapter 2 Corinthians 7:0 the apostle had expressed his entire confidence in the ready obedience of the Corinthians in all things. To this confidence he had been led by the promptitude with which they had complied with his commands in regard to the case of discipline there, and by the respect which they had shown to Titus, whom he had sent to them. All that he had ever said in their favor had been realized; all that had ever been asked of them had been accomplished The object of his statement in the close of 2 Corinthians 7:0 seems to have been to excite them to diligence in completing the collection which they had begun for the poor and afflicted saints of Judea. On the consideration of that subject, which lay so near his heart, he now enters; and this chapter and the following are occupied with suggesting arguments, and giving directions for a liberal contribution.Paul had given directions for taking up this collection in the first Epistle; see 1 Corinthians 16:1 ff; compare Romans 15:26. This collection he had given Titus direction to take up when he went to Corinth; see 2Co 7:6-17 of this chapter. But from some cause it had not been completed, 2 Corinthians 7:10-11. What that cause was, is not stated, but it may have been possibly the disturbances which had existed there, or the opposition of the enemies of Paul, or the attention which was necessarily bestowed in regulating the affairs of the church. But in order that the contribution might be made, and might be a liberal one, Paul presses on their attention several considerations designed to excite them to give freely. The chapter is, therefore, of importance to us, as it is a statement of the duty of giving liberally to the cause of benevolence, and of the motives by which it should be done. In the presentation of this subject, Paul urges upon them the following considerations.He appeals to the very liberal example of the churches of Macedonia, where, though they were exceedingly poor, they had contributed with great cheerfulness and liberality to the object, 2 Corinthians 8:1-5.From their example he had been induced to desire Titus to lay the subject before the church at Corinth, and to finish the collection which he had begun, 2 Corinthians 8:6.He directs them to abound in this, not as a matter of commandment, but excited by the example of others, 2 Corinthians 8:7-8.He appeals to them by the love of the Saviour; reminds them that though he was rich yet he became poor, and that they were bound to imitate his example, 2 Corinthians 8:9.He reminds them of their intention to make such a contribution, and of the effort which they had made a year before; and though they had been embarrassed in it, and might find it difficult still to give as much as they had intended, or as much as they would wish, still it would be acceptable to God. For if there was a willing mind, God accepted the offering, 2 Corinthians 8:10-12.He assures them that it was not his wish to burden or oppress them. All that he desired was that there should be an equality in all the churches, 2 Corinthians 8:13-15.To show them how much he was interested in this, he thanks God that he had put it into the heart of Titus to engage in it. And in order more effectually to secure it, he says that he had sent with Titus a brother who was well known, and whose praise was in all the churches. He had done this in order that the churches might have entire confidence that the contribution would be properly distributed. Paul did not wish it to be entrusted to himself. He would leave no room for suspicion in regard to his own character; he would furnish the utmost security to the churches that their wishes were complied with. He desired to act honestly not only in the sight of the Lord, but to furnish evidence of his entire honesty to people, 2 Corinthians 8:16-21.To secure the same object he had also sent another brother, and these three brethren he felt willing to recommend as faithful and tried; as people in whom the church at Corinth might repose the utmost confidence, 2 Corinthians 8:22-24.