27. not fearing the wrath of the
	king—But in Exodus 2:14 it is
	said, "Moses feared, and fled from the face of Pharaoh." He
	was afraid, and fled from the danger where no duty called him
	to stay (to have stayed without call of duty would have been to tempt
	Providence, and to sacrifice his hope of being Israel's future
	deliverer according to the divine intimations; his great aim, see
	on Hebrews 11:1). He did not
	fear the king so as to neglect his duty and not return when God
	called him. It was in spite of the king's prohibition he left
	Egypt, not fearing the consequences which were likely to overtake
	him if he should be caught, after having, in defiance of the king,
	left Egypt. If he had stayed and resumed his position as adopted son
	of Pharaoh's daughter, his slaughter of the Egyptian would doubtless
	have been connived at; but his resolution to take his portion with
	oppressed Israel, which he could not have done had he stayed, was the
	motive of his flight, and constituted the "faith" of this
	act, according to the express statement here. The exodus of Moses
	with Israel cannot be meant here, for it was made, not in defiance,
	but by the desire, of the king. Besides, the chronological order
	would be broken thus, the next particular specified here, namely, the
	institution of the Passover, having taken place before the
	exodus. Besides, it is Moses' personal history and faith
	which are here described. The faith of the people ("THEY
	passed") is not introduced till Hebrews 11:1- :. 
	endured—steadfast in
	faith amidst trials. He had fled, not so much from fear of
	Pharaoh, as from a revulsion of feeling in finding God's people
	insensible to their high destiny, and from disappointment at not
	having been able to inspire them with those hopes for which he had
	sacrificed all his earthly prospects. This accounts for his strange
	reluctance and despondency when commissioned by God to go and arouse
	the people (Exodus 3:15; Exodus 4:1;
	Exodus 4:10-12). 
	seeing him . . . invisible—as
	though he had not to do with men, but only with God, ever before his
	eyes by faith, though invisible to the bodily eye (Romans 1:20;
	1 Timothy 1:17; 1 Timothy 6:16).
	Hence he feared not the wrath of visible man; the
	characteristic of faith (Hebrews 11:1;
	Luke 12:4; Luke 12:5).