40. provided—with divine
	forethought from eternity (compare Genesis 22:8;
	Genesis 22:14). 
	some better thing for us—
	(Hebrews 7:19); than they had here.
	They had not in this world, "apart from us" (so the Greek
	is for "without us," that is, they had to wait for us for),
	the clear revelation of the promised salvation actually accomplished,
	as we now have it in Christ; in their state, beyond the grave their
	souls also seem to have attained an increase of heavenly
	bliss on the death and ascension of Christ; and they shall not attain
	the full and final glory in body and soul (the regeneration of
	the creature), until the full number of the elect (including us with
	them) is completed. The Fathers, CHRYSOSTOM,
	c., restricted the meaning of Hebrews 11:39
Hebrews 11:40 to this last truth, and
	I incline to this view. "The connection is, You, Hebrews, may
	far more easily exercise patience than Old Testament believers; for
	they had much longer to wait, and are still waiting until the elect
	are all gathered in; you, on the contrary, have not to wait for them"
	[ESTIUS]. I think his
	object in these verses (Hebrews 11:39;
	Hebrews 11:40) is to warn Hebrew
	Christians against their tendency to relapse into Judaism.
	"Though the Old Testament worthies attained such eminence by
	faith, they are not above us in privileges, but the reverse." It
	is not we who are perfected with them, but rather they
	with us. They waited for His coming; we enjoy Him as
	having come (Hebrews 1:1; Hebrews 2:3).
	Christ's death, the means of perfecting what the Jewish law
	could not perfect, was reserved for our time. Compare Hebrews 2:3- :, "perfecter (Greek) of our faith."
	Now that Christ is come, they in soul share our blessedness, being
	"the spirits of the just made perfect" (Hebrews 2:3- :); so ALFORD;
	however, see on Hebrews 11:1. Hebrews 11:1- : shows that the blood of Christ, brought into the heavenly
	holy place by Him, first opened an entrance into heaven (compare Hebrews 11:1- :). Still, the fathers were in blessedness by faith in the
	Saviour to come, at death (Hebrews 6:15;
	Luke 16:22).