35. Women received their dead
	raised—as the widow of Zarephath ( :-). The Shunammite ( :-). The two oldest manuscripts read. "They received
	women of aliens by raising their dead."  :- shows that the raising of the widow's son by Elijah led her
	to the faith, so that he thus took her into fellowship, an
	alien though she was. Christ, in  :-, makes especial mention of the fact that Elijah was sent to
	an alien from Israel, a woman of Sarepta. Thus Paul may quote this as
	an instance of Elijah's faith, that at God's command he went to a
	Gentile city of Sidonia (contrary to Jewish prejudices), and there,
	as the fruit of faith, not only raised her dead son, but received
	her as a convert into the family of God, as Vulgate reads.
	Still, English Version may be the right reading. 
	and—Greek,
	"but"; in contrast to those raised again to life. 
	tortured—"broken
	on the wheel." Eleazar (2 Maccabees 6:18, end; 2
	Maccabees 19:20,30). The sufferer was stretched on an instrument
	like a drumhead and scourged to death. 
	not accepting
	deliverance—when offered to them. So the seven brothers, 2
	Maccabees 7:9, 11, 14, 29, 36; and Eleazar, 2 Maccabees 6:21,
	28, 30, "Though I might have been delivered from death, I
	endure these severe pains, being beaten." 
	a better resurrection—than
	that of the women's children "raised to life again"; or,
	than the resurrection which their foes could give them by delivering
	them from death (Daniel 12:2;
	Luke 20:35; Philippians 3:11).
	The fourth of the brethren (referring to Philippians 3:11- :) said to King Antiochus, "To be put to death by men, is
	to be chosen to look onward for the hopes which are of God, to be
	raised up again by Him; but for thee there is no resurrection to
	life." The writer of Second Maccabees expressly disclaims
	inspiration, which prevents our mistaking Paul's allusion here to
	it as if it sanctioned the Apocrypha as inspired. In quoting Daniel,
	he quotes a book claiming inspiration, and so tacitly
	sanctions that claim.