21. both the sons—Greek,
	"each of the sons" (Genesis 47:29;
	Genesis 48:8-20). He knew not
	Joseph's sons, and could not distinguish them by sight, yet he did
	distinguish them by faith, transposing his hands intentionally,
	so as to lay his right hand on the younger, Ephraim, whose posterity
	was to be greater than that of Manasseh: he also adopted these
	grandchildren as his own sons, after having transferred the right of
	primogeniture to Joseph (Genesis 48:22).
	and worshipped—This did
	not take place in immediate connection with the foregoing, but before
	it, when Jacob made Joseph swear that he would bury him with his
	fathers in Canaan, not in Egypt. The assurance that Joseph would do
	so filled him with pious gratitude to God, which he expressed by
	raising himself on his bed to an attitude of worship. His
	faith, as Joseph's (Hebrews 11:22),
	consisted in his so confidentially anticipating the fulfilment of
	God's promise of Canaan to his descendants, as to desire to be buried
	there as his proper possession. 
	leaning upon
	the top of his staff— Hebrews 11:22- :, Hebrew and English Version, "upon the
	bed's head." The Septuagint translates as Paul here.
	JEROME justly reprobates
	the notion of modern Rome, that Jacob worshipped the top of
	Joseph's staff, having on it an image of Joseph's power, to which
	Jacob bowed in recognition of the future sovereignty of his son's
	tribe, the father bowing to the son! The Hebrew, as translated
	in English Version, sets it aside: the bed is alluded
	to afterwards (Genesis 48:2; Genesis 49:33),
	and it is likely that Jacob turned himself in his bed so as to
	have his face toward the pillow, Genesis 49:33- : (there were no bedsteads in the East). Paul by
	adopting the Septuagint version, brings out, under the Spirit,
	an additional fact, namely, that the aged patriarch used his
	own (not Joseph's) staff to lean on in worshipping on his
	bed. The staff, too, was the emblem of his pilgrim state
	here on his way to his heavenly city (Hebrews 11:13;
	Hebrews 11:14), wherein God had so
	wonderfully supported him. Hebrews 11:14- :, "With my staff I passed over Jordan, and now I
	am become," c. (compare Exodus 12:11
Mark 6:8). In Mark 6:8- :, the same thing is said of David's "bowing on his bed,"
	an act of adoring thanksgiving to God for God's favor to his son
	before death. He omits the more leading blessing of the twelve sons
	of Jacob; because "he plucks only the flowers which stand by his
	way, and leaves the whole meadow full to his readers" [DELITZSCH
	in ALFORD].