13-16. Summary of the
	characteristic excellencies of the patriarchs' faith 
	died in faith—died as
	believers, waiting for, not actually seeing as yet
	their good things promised to them. They were true to this principle
	of faith even unto, and especially in, their dying hour
	(compare Hebrews 11:20). 
	These all—beginning
	with "Abraham" (Hebrews 11:20- :), to whom the promises were made (Hebrews 11:20- :), and who is alluded to in the end of Hebrews 11:20- : and in Hebrews 11:15
	[BENGEL and ALFORD].
	But the "ALL"
	can hardly but include Abel, Enoch, and Noah. Now as these did not
	receive the promise of entering literal Canaan, some other promise
	made in the first ages, and often repeated, must be that meant,
	namely, the promise of a coming Redeemer made to Adam, namely, "the
	seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's head." Thus the
	promises cannot have been merely temporal, for Abel and Enoch
	mentioned here received no temporal promise [ARCHBISHOP
	MAGEE]. This promise of
	eternal redemption is the inner essence of the promises made to
	Abraham (Galatians 3:16). 
	not having received—It
	was this that constituted their "faith." If they had
	"received" THE THING
	PROMISED (so "the promises" here mean: the plural is
	used because of the frequent renewal of the promise to the
	patriarchs: Hebrews 11:17 says he
	did receive the promises, but not the thing
	promised), it would have been sight, not faith.
seen them afar off—
	(John 8:56). Christ, as the
	Word, was preached to the Old Testament believers, and so became the
	seed of life to their souls, as He is to ours. 
	and were persuaded of
	them—The oldest manuscripts omit this clause. 
	embraced them—as though
	they were not "afar off," but within reach, so as to draw
	them to themselves and clasp them in their embrace. TRENCH
	denies that the Old Testament believers embraced them, for
	they only saw them afar off: he translates, "saluted
	them," as the homeward-bound mariner, recognizing from afar the
	well-known promontories of his native land. ALFORD
	translates, "greeted them." Jacob's exclamation, "I
	have waited for Thy salvation, O Lord" (John 8:56- :) is such a greeting of salvation from afar
	[DELITZSCH]. 
	confessed . . . were
	strangers—so Abraham to the children of Heth (John 8:56- :); and Jacob to Pharaoh (Genesis 47:9;
	Psalms 119:19). Worldly men hold
	fast the world; believers sit loose to it. Citizens of the world
	do not confess themselves "strangers on the earth." 
	pilgrims—Greek,
	"temporary (literally, 'by the way') sojourners." 
	on the earth—contrasted
	with "an heavenly" (Psalms 119:19- :): "our citizenship is in heaven" (Greek:
Hebrews 10:34; Psalms 119:54;
	Philippians 3:20). "Whosoever
	professes that he has a Father in heaven, confesses himself a
	stranger on earth; hence there is in the heart an ardent longing,
	like that of a child living among strangers, in want and grief, far
	from his fatherland" [LUTHER].
	"Like ships in seas while in, above the world."