3. we understand—We perceive
	with our spiritual intelligence the fact of the world's creation by
	God, though we see neither Him nor the act of creation as described
	in Genesis 1:1-31. The natural
	world could not, without revelation, teach us this truth, though it
	confirms the truth when apprehended by faith (Genesis 1:1-1.1.31- :). Adam is passed over in silence here as to his faith,
	perhaps as being the first who fell and brought sin on us all; though
	it does not follow that he did not repent and believe the promise. 
	worlds—literally,
	"ages"; all that exists in time and space, visible and
	invisible, present and eternal. 
	framed—"fitly
	formed and consolidated"; including the creation of the single
	parts and the harmonious organization of the whole, and the continual
	providence which maintains the whole throughout all ages. As creation
	is the foundation and a specimen of the whole divine economy, so
	faith in creation is the foundation and a specimen of all faith
	[BENGEL]. 
	by the word of God—not
	here, the personal word (Greek, "logos,"
	John 1:1) but the spoken word
	(Greek, "rhema"); though by the
	instrumentality of the personal word (John 1:1- :). 
	not made, c.—Translate
	as Greek, "so that not out of things which appear hath
	that which is seen been made" not as in the case of all things
	which we see reproduced from previously existing and visible
	materials, as, for instance, the plant from the seed, the animal from
	the parent, c., has the visible world sprung into being from apparent
	materials. So also it is implied in the first clause of the verse
	that the invisible spiritual worlds were framed not from previously
	existing materials. BENGEL
	explains it by distinguishing "appear," that is, begin
	to be seen (namely, at creation), from that which is seen
	as already in existence, not merely beginning to be seen so
	that the things seen were not made of the things which appear,"
	that is, which begin to be seen by us in the act of creation.
	We were not spectators of creation; it is by faith we perceive it.