5. woman . . . prayeth . . .
	prophesieth—This instance of women speaking in public worship
	is an extraordinary case, and justified only by the miraculous gifts
	which such women possessed as their credentials; for instance, Anna
	the prophetess and Priscilla (so  :-). The ordinary rule to them is: silence in public (1 Corinthians 14:34;
	1 Corinthians 14:35; 1 Timothy 2:11;
	1 Timothy 2:12). Mental receptivity and
	activity in family life are recognized in Christianity, as most
	accordant with the destiny of woman. This passage does not
	necessarily sanction women speaking in public, even though possessing
	miraculous gifts; but simply records what took place at Corinth,
	without expressing an opinion on it, reserving the censure of it till
	1 Corinthians 14:34; 1 Corinthians 14:35.
	Even those women endowed with prophecy were designed to exercise
	their gift, rather in other times and places, than the public
	congregation. 
	dishonoureth . . . head—in
	that she acts against the divine ordinance and the modest propriety
	that becomes her: in putting away the veil, she puts away the badge
	of her subjection to man, which is her true "honor"; for
	through him it connects her with Christ, the head of the man.
	Moreover, as the head-covering was the emblem of maiden
	modesty before man (Genesis 24:65),
	and conjugal chastity (Genesis 20:16);
	so, to uncover the head indicated withdrawal from the power
	of the husband, whence a suspected wife had her head uncovered
	by the priest (Numbers 5:18). ALFORD
	takes "her head" to be man, her symbolical, not her literal
	head; but as it is literal in the former clause, it must be so in the
	latter one. 
	all one as if . . . shaven—As
	woman's hair is given her by nature, as her covering (Numbers 5:18- :), to cut it off like a man, all admit, would be indecorous:
	therefore, to put away the head-covering, too, like a man, would be
	similarly indecorous. It is natural to her to have long hair
	for her covering: she ought, therefore, to add the other (the wearing
	of a head-covering) to show that she does of her own will that
	which nature itself teaches she ought to do, in token of her
	subjection to man.