39. And the contention was so sharp
	between them—such was the "irritation," or
	"exacerbation." 
	that they departed asunder
	one from the other—Said they not truly to the Lystrians that
	they were "men of like passions with them"; ( :-). But who was to blame? (1) That John Mark had
	either tired of the work or shrunk from the dangers and fatigues that
	yet lay before them, was undeniable; and Paul concluded that what he
	had done he might, and probably would, do again. Was he wrong in
	this? (See Proverbs 25:19). But (2)
	To this Barnabas might reply that no rule was without exception; that
	one failure, in a young Christian, was not enough to condemn him for
	life; that if near relationship might be thought to warp his
	judgment, it also gave him opportunities of knowing the man better
	than others; and that as he was himself anxious to be allowed another
	trial (and the result makes this next to certain), in order that he
	might wipe out the effect of his former failure and show what
	"hardness he could now endure as a good soldier of Jesus
	Christ," his petition ought not to be rejected. Now, since John
	Mark did retrieve his character in these respects, and a
	reconciliation took place between Paul and him, so cordial that the
	apostle expresses more than once the confidence he had in him and the
	value he set upon his services (Colossians 4:10;
	Colossians 4:11; 2 Timothy 4:11),
	it may seem that events showed Barnabas to be in the right, and Paul
	too harsh and hasty in his judgment. But, in behalf of Paul, it may
	well be answered, that not being able to see into the future he had
	only the unfavorable past to judge by; that the gentleness of
	Barnabas (Acts 4:36; Acts 11:24)
	had already laid him open to imposition (see on Acts 11:24- :), to which near relationship would in this case make him
	more liable; and that in refusing to take John Mark on this
	missionary journey he was not judging his Christian character nor
	pronouncing on his fitness for future service, but merely providing
	in the meantime against being again put to serious inconvenience and
	having their hands weakened by a possible second desertion. On the
	whole, then, it seems clear that each of these great servants
	of—Christ had something to say for himself, in defense of the
	position which they respectively took up; that while Barnabas was
	quite able to appreciate the grounds on which Paul proceeded, Paul
	was not so competent to judge of the considerations which Barnabas
	probably urged; that while Paul had but one object in view, to see
	that the companion of their arduous work was one of thoroughly
	congenial spirit and sufficient nerve, Barnabas, over and above the
	same desire, might not unreasonably be afraid for the soul of his
	nephew, lest the refusal to allow him to accompany them on their
	journey might injure his Christian character and deprive the Church
	of a true servant of Jesus Christ; and that while both sought only
	the glory of their common Master, each looked at the question at
	issue, to some extent, through the medium of his own temperament,
	which grace sanctifies and refines, but does not destroy—Paul,
	through the medium of absolute devotion to the cause and kingdom of
	Christ, which, warm and womanly as his affections were, gave a tinge
	of lofty sternness to his resolves where that seemed to be affected;
	Barnabas, through the medium of the same singleness of heart
	in Christ's service, though probably not in equal strength (Acts 11:24- :), but also of a certain natural gentleness which, where a
	Christian relative was concerned, led him to attach more weight to
	what seemed for his spiritual good than Paul could be supposed to do.
	In these circumstances, it seems quite possible that they might have
	amicably "agreed to differ," each taking his own companion,
	as they actually did. But the "paroxysm" (as the word is),
	the "exacerbation" which is expressly given as the cause of
	their parting, shows but too plainly, that human infirmity amidst the
	great labors of the Church at Antioch at length sundered those who
	had sweetly and lovingly borne together the heat and burden of the
	day during a protracted tour in the service of Christ. "Therefore
	let no man glory in men" (Acts 11:24- :). As for John Mark, although through his uncle's warm
	advocacy of his cause he was put in a condition to dissipate the
	cloud that hung over him, how bitter to him must have ever afterwards
	been the reflection that it was his culpable conduct which gave
	occasion to whatever was sinful in the strife between Paul and
	Barnabas, and to a separation in action, though no doubt with a
	mutual Christian regard, between those who had till then wrought
	nobly together! How watchful does all this teach Christians, and
	especially Christian ministers and missionaries, to be against giving
	way to rash judgment and hot temper towards each other, especially
	where on both sides the glory of Christ is the ground of difference!
	How possible is it that in such cases both parties may, on the
	question at issue, be more or less in the right! How difficult is it
	even for the most faithful and devoted servants of Christ, differing
	as they do in their natural temperament even under the commanding
	influence of grace, to see even important questions precisely in the
	same light! And if, with every disposition to yield what is
	unimportant, they still feel it a duty each to stand to his own
	point, how careful should they be to do it lovingly, each pursuing
	his own course without disparagement of his Christian brother! And
	how affectingly does the Lord overrule such difference of judgment
	and such manifestations of human infirmity, by making them "turn
	out rather unto the furtherance of the Gospel"; as in this case
	is eminently seen in the two missionary parties instead of one, not
	travelling over the same ground and carrying their dispute over all
	the regions of their former loving labors, but dividing the field
	between them! 
	and so Barnabas took Mark,
	and sailed unto Cyprus; and Paul chose Silas—(See on Acts 11:24- :) —going two and two, as the Twelve and the Seventy
	(Mark 6:7; Luke 10:1).