 14.   παρασκευὴ τοῦ π  . ] The signification, ‘Friday in the Passover week’ (using παρασκευή for ‘day before the sabbath,’ as reff. Matt., Luke, and τοῦ π . as in σάββατον τοῦ π . Ps.-Ign. ad Philip. c. 13, p. 937, ed. Migne), has found many and some recent defenders: see especially Wieseler, Chron. Synops. i. 335 ff. But this is not its natural meaning, nor would it ever have been thought of in this place, but for the difficulty arising from the whole Passover question, which I have discussed on Matthew 26:17-19 , and on ch. John 18:28 .
	 παρ  .   τοῦ π  . answers to עֶרֶב הפֶּסַח , and is ‘  the vigil of the Passover ,’ i.e. the day preceding the evening when the passover was killed. And so it must be understood here, especially when connected with ch. John 18:28 . See on the whole matter the notes above referred to.
	 ὥρα ὡς ἕκτη ] There is an insuperable difficulty as the text now stands. For Mark relates, ch. John 15:25 , that the  crucifixion took place at the  third hour: and that it certainly was so, the whole arrangement of the day testifies. For on the one hand, the judgement could hardly have taken the whole day till noon: and on the other, there will not thus be time left for the rest of the events of the day, before the sabbath began. We must certainly suppose, as did Eusebius, Theophylact, and Severus (in the Catena, Lücke, ii. 756), that there has been some very early erratum in our copies; whether the interchange of Γ ʹ (3) and ϛ ʹ (6), or some other, cannot now be determined. Lücke and Friedlieb defend the  sixth hour: but the above difficulties seem to me decisive against it.
	We certainly may approximate the two accounts by recollecting that as the crucifixion itself certainly did not (as in Mark) take place  exactly at the third hour, and as here it is ὥρα  ὡς ἕκτη , some intermediate time may be described by both Evangelists. But this is not satisfactory: see note on Mark 15:25 . The solution given by Bp. Wordsworth after Townson and others, that St. John’s reckoning of the hours is different, and like our own, so that the sixth hour = 6 A.M., besides being unsupported by any authority (see ch. John 1:39 ; John 4:6 ; John 4:52 ; John 11:9 , and notes), would leave here the difficulty that there must thus elapse three hours between the hearing before Pilate and the Crucifixion. Besides which, we may ask, is it possible to imagine St. John, with the other Gospels before him as these expositors believe him to have had, adopting without notice an independent reckoning of his own which would introduce utter confusion into that history which (again on their hypothesis) he wrote his Gospel to complete and clear up?
	The words  ἴδε ὁ βασ  .   ὑμ  . seem to have been spoken in irony to the Jews in the same spirit in which afterwards the title was written over the cross: partly perhaps also, as in that case, in consequence of the saying in John 19:12 , to sever himself altogether from the suspicion there cast on him.