 11. ] This last testimony of our Lord before Pilate is a  witness to the truth: opening in a wonderful manner the secret of Pilate’s vaunted power, of His own humble submission, and the sinfulness of His enemies. This saying, observes Meyer, breathes truth and grace. The great stress is on the word  ἄνωθεν  , on which Grotius strikingly says (  ungewohnlich treffend , Stier), “inde scilicet, unde ortus sum!” so that it answers remarkably to the πόθεν above. We must not dream of any allusion to  Rome , or the  Sanhedrim , in this ἄνωθεν , as the sources of Pilate’s power: the word was not so meant, nor so understood: see John 19:12 .
	δεδομέν  ον , not δεδομέν  η : the neuter is more general, requiring the supply, as Meyer, of τὸ ἐξουσιάζειν κατ ʼ ἐμοῦ , and embraces in itself the whole delegation from above, power included q. d.  except by appointment from above . Lampe (in loc.) remarks: “Concedit Pilato (1)  potestatem . Agnoscebat fori humani authoritatem, quia regnum ejus non erat terrenum, humanos magistratus destruens. Neque Pilato et Romanis jus in Judæos disputabat.… (2) Exaggerat illam potestatem,  ut superne datam . Hæc est doctrina Christiana, omnem potestatem esse a Deo ( Rom 13:1-2 ).… (3) Agnoscit potestatem illam se  in Seipsum extendere, cum omnia secum ex decreto divino agerentur ( Act 4:28 ).”
	 διὰ τοῦτο ]  on this account, viz. because of what has just been asserted,  οὐκ εἶχες κ . τ . λ .
	The connexion is somewhat difficult. I take it to be this: ‘God has given to thee  power over me; not insight into the character which I claim, that of being the son of God but simply  power: that insight belonged to others, viz. the Sanhedrim, and their president, whose office it was to judge that claim;  they have judged against the clearest evidence and rejected me, the Son of God; thy sin, that of blindly exercising thy  power , sin though it be, is therefore  less than theirs , who being God’s own people, and with God’s word of prophecy before them (and the High Priest, with his own prophetic word before him, see ch. Joh 18:14 ), deliberately gave me over into thy hand.’ It is important to this, which I believe to be the only right understanding of the words, to remember that Pilate, from John 19:6 , was making himself simply their tool; He was the sinful, but at the same time the blind instrument of their deliberate malice. Nearly so Lücke and De Wette. Bengel and Stier understand “quia Me non nosti” as the subject of διὰ τοῦτο , but Lücke rightly says that δεδομ . ἄνωθεν , and nothing else must be that subject. So Meyer also.
	 ὁ παραδιδ  ., beyond question,  Caiaphas , to whom the initiative on the Jewish side belonged; “cujus authoritate omnia agebantur,” Lampe. At the same time the whole Sanhedrim are probably included under the guilt of their chief.
	In this ἁμαρτίαν is an implied reference to a higher Judge nay, that Judge Himself speaks.