Verse Mark 16:2. Very early in the morning, — This was the time they left their own houses, and by the rising of the sun they got to the tomb. As the preceding day was the Sabbath, they could not, consistently with the observances of that day, approach the tomb. See the concluding notes at the end of John. "John 21:25"The following observations from Lightfoot will serve to illustrate this subject."The distinction of the twilight among the rabbins was this: -"I. איילחא השחרא The hinde of the morning - the first appearance. R. Chaiia Rab, and R. Simeon ben Chalaphta, travelling together on a certain morning in the valley of Arbel, saw the hinde of the morning, that its light spread the sky. R. Chaiia said, Such shall be the redemption of Israel. First, it goes forward by degrees, and by little and little; but by how much the more it shall go forward, by so much the more it shall increase. It was at that time that Christ arose, namely, in the first morning, as may be gathered from the words of St. Matthew. And to this the title of the 22d Psalm seems to have respect - על איילת השחר. See also Revelation 22:16, I am the bright and morning star. And now you may imagine the women went out of their houses towards the sepulchre."II. משיכיר בי הכלת ללב When one may distinguish between purple colour and white. From what time do they recite their phylacterical prayers in the morning? From that time that one may distinguish between purple colour and white. R. Eliezer saith, Between purple colour and green. Before this time was obscurum adhue caeptae lucis, the obscurity of the begun light, as Tacitus's expression is."III. משיארו המזרח When the east begins to lighten."IV. בנץ החמה Sunrise; from the hinde of the morning going forth, until the east begins to lighten; and from the time the east begins to lighten, until sunrise, c."According to these four parts of time, one might not improperly suit the four phrases of the evangelists. According to the first, Matthew's, Τῃ επιφωσκουσῃ, As it began to dawn. According to the second, John's, Πρωΐ σκοτιας ετι ουσης, Early in the morning when it was yet dark. To the third, Luke's, Ορθρου βαθεως, Very early in the morning. To the fourth, Mark's, Λιαν πρωΐ, Very early in the morning. And yet, Ανατειλαντος του ἡλιου At the rising of the sun. For the women came twice to the sepulchre, as St. John teaches, by whom the other evangelists are to be explained which being well considered, the reconciling them together is very easy."