Romans 4:17.  As it is written. Genesis 17:5 is here quoted, from the LXX. In view of the connection the parenthesis is to be retained.
	 A  father of many nations.  Comp. the significant change of name (Abraham = father of a multitude) for which this phrase gives a reason.
	 Have I set thee.  ‘  Appointed  or  constituted.  The word denotes that the paternity spoken of was the result of a special arrangement or economy. It would not be used to denote the merely physical connection between father and son’ (Shedd). Hence the promise was of a spiritual seed from many nations. The pertinence of the quotation thus becomes obvious.
	 Before him  whom he believed.  This is to be joined with Romans 4:16: who is the father of us all, not physically, but spiritually,  in the sight and estimation of God,  in whose sight Abraham believed. Others prefer to explain: in the sight of God, whom Abraham believed; but this is not so   grammatical.
	 Who quickeneth the dead,  etc. Paul thus describes God, because of the peculiar circumstances of Abraham. His omnipotence is set forth in the first phrase, which is suggested by the condition of Abraham and Sarah, mentioned in Romans 4:19.
	 Calleth those things that are not as though they were. ‘ Things which be not,’ relatively non-existent, as the original suggests, non-existent until God calls them into being. These things God treats as existent. The main question is, whether this means that God creates such things, or that in His decrees of Providence He disposes respecting them, just as He does respecting things already in existence. The word ‘call’ is most frequently used in the former sense, but the tense here used points to continuous action, which accords better with the latter view. The phrase thus suggests the numerous seed of Abraham, in regard to which God had decreed and spoken (Genesis 15:5) while they were nonexistent, except in His purpose. Some find here an undercurrent of reference to the calling of the Gentiles, or to the imputing of righteousness without righteousness; but this is far-fetched
	