Romans 4:13.  For not through the law.  This order is required by the emphasis indicated in the original. ‘Through law’   is the literal rendering, but this verse (comp. Romans 4:15) overthrows the view that ‘law’ without the article does not mean specifically  the  Mosaic law. The argument is: The Mosaic law was in no sense the ground or cause of the promise, for the law was not then in existence; and this fact is the ground of the position of Abraham as father of all believers, whether Gentiles or Jews (Romans 4:11-12). The phrase ‘through the law’ must not be narrowed to ‘through the works of the law;’ the agency of the Mosaic law is absolutely denied.
	 Is the promise.  The purport of the promise is afterwards given. The verb is wanting in the Greek, but we supply ‘is,’ because the reference is to a Cruse still valid (‘or to his seed’).
	 To Abraham or to his seed. ‘ Or’ after a negative  binds  two words closely. The promise is to both, as one. Here ‘his seed’ is not directly referred to Christ, as in Galatians 3:16, but to all believers, as the spiritual descendants of Abraham. In Galatians, the emphasis rests upon the fact that believers form a collective unity in Christ.
	 That he should be heir of the world.  This is Paul’s summing up of various promises made to Abraham for himself and his seed (Genesis 12:7; Genesis 13:14-15; Genesis 15:18; Genesis 17:8; Genesis 22:17). The Rabbins understood these as meaning the ultimate, universal sovereignty of the Messiah. As to the main point Paul accepts this view, though the religious significance to him was different from the Jewish conception. The same idea underlies the gospel phrase ‘kingdom of heaven, kingdom of God.’ The promise will be literally fulfilled when the kingdoms of the world are given to the people of the Most High, and Christ returns to rule. Daniel 7:27; Matthew 5:5; Revelation 11:15, etc.
	 Through the righteousness of faith. Genesis 15:6, quoted in Romans 4:3, follows the first promise; but this need not occasion difficulty, for the promises covered a long period, and Abraham’s faith began at the first promise. Comp. Genesis 12:1-3 with Hebrews 11:8.
	