26. And then shall they see the Son
	of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory—In  :-, this is given most fully: "And then shall appear the
	sign of the Son of man in heaven; and then shall all the tribes of
	the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man," c. That
	this language finds its highest interpretation in the Second Personal
	Coming of Christ, is most certain. But the question is, whether that
	be the primary sense of it as it stands here? Now if the reader will
	turn to Daniel 7:13 Daniel 7:14,
	and connect with it the Daniel 7:14- :, he will find, we think, the true key to our Lord's
	meaning here. There the powers that oppressed the Church—symbolized
	by rapacious wild beasts—are summoned to the bar of the Great God,
	who as the Ancient of days seats Himself, with His assessors, on a
	burning Throne: thousand thousands ministering to Him, and ten
	thousand times ten thousand standing before Him. "The judgment
	is set, and the books are opened." Who that is guided by the
	mere words would doubt that this is a description of the Final
	Judgment? And yet nothing is clearer than that it is not, but
	a description of a vast temporal judgment, upon organized
	bodies of men, for their incurable hostility to the kingdom of God
	upon earth. Well, after the doom of these has been pronounced and
	executed, and room thus prepared for the unobstructed development of
	the kingdom of God over the earth, what follows? "I saw in the
	night visions, and behold, one like THE
	SON OF MAN
	came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and
	they [the angelic attendants] brought Him near before Him." For
	what purpose? To receive investiture in the kingdom, which, as
	Messiah, of right belonged to Him. Accordingly, it is added, "And
	there was given Him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all
	peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him: His dominion is an
	everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and His kingdom that
	which shall not be destroyed." Comparing this with our Lord's
	words, He seems to us, by "the Son of man [on which phrase, see
	on Daniel 7:14- :] coming in the clouds
	with great power and glory," to mean, that when judicial
	vengeance shall once have been executed upon Jerusalem, and the
	ground thus cleared for the unobstructed establishment of His own
	kingdom, His true regal claims and rights would be visibly and
	gloriously asserted and manifested. See on Daniel 7:14- : (with its parallels in Matthew 17:1;
	Mark 9:2), in which nearly the
	same language is employed, and where it can hardly be understood of
	anything else than the full and free establishment of the kingdom
	of Christ on the destruction of Jerusalem. But what is that "sign
	of the Son of man in heaven?" Interpreters are not agreed. But
	as before Christ came to destroy Jerusalem some appalling portents
	were seen in the air, so before His Personal appearing it is likely
	that something analogous will be witnessed, though of what
	nature it would be vain to conjecture.