20. And except that the Lord had
	shortened those days, no flesh—that is, no human life. 
	should be saved: but for the
	elect's sake, whom he hath chosen, he hath shortened the days—But
	for this merciful "shortening," brought about by a
	remarkable concurrence of causes, the whole nation would have
	perished, in which there yet remained a remnant to be afterwards
	gathered out. This portion of the prophecy closes, in Luke, with the
	following vivid and important glance at the subsequent fortunes of
	the chosen people: "And they shall fall by the sword, and shall
	be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden
	down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled"
	(Luke 21:24). The language as
	well as the idea of this remarkable statement is taken from Daniel 8:10;
	Daniel 8:13. What, then, is its
	import here? It implies, first, that a time is coming when Jerusalem
	shall cease to be "trodden down of the Gentiles"; which it
	was then by pagan, and since and till now is by Mohammedan
	unbelievers: and next, it implies that the period when this treading
	down of Jerusalem by the Gentiles is to cease will be when "the
	times of the Gentiles are fulfilled" or "completed."
	But what does this mean? We may gather the meaning of it from Daniel 8:13- : in which the divine purposes and procedure towards the
	chosen people from first to last are treated in detail. In Daniel 8:13- : these words of our Lord are thus reproduced: "For I
	would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest
	ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is
	happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in."
	See the Daniel 8:13- :,
	from which it will appear that "till the fulness of the Gentiles
	be come in"—or, in our Lord's phraseology, "till the
	times of the Gentiles be fulfilled"—does not mean "till
	the general conversion of the world to Christ," but "till
	the Gentiles have had their full time of that place in the
	Church which the Jews had before them." After that period of
	Gentilism, as before of Judaism, "Jerusalem"
	and Israel, no longer "trodden down by the Gentiles," but
	"grafted into their own olive tree," shall constitute, with
	the believing Gentiles, one Church of God, and fill the whole earth.
	What a bright vista does this open up!