Let us walk - To “walk” is an expression denoting “to live;” let us “live,” or “conduct,” etc.Honestly - The word used here means rather in a “decent’ or “becoming” manner; in a manner “appropriate” to those who are the children of light.As in the day - As if all our actions were seen and known. People by day, or in open light, live decently; their foul and wicked deeds are done in the night. The apostle exhorts Christians to live as if all their conduct were seen, and they had nothing which they wished to conceal.In rioting - Revelling; denoting the licentious conduct, the noisy and obstreperous mirth, the scenes of disorder and sensuality, which attend luxurious living.Drunkenness - Rioting and drunkenness constitute the “first” class of sins from which he would keep them. It is scarcely necessary to add that these were common crimes among the pagan.In chambering - “Lewd, immodest behavior.” (Webster.) The Greek word includes illicit indulgences of all kinds, adultery, etc. The words chambering and wantonness constitute the “second” class of crimes from which the apostle exhorts Christians to abstain. That these were common crimes among the pagan, it is not necessary to say; see the Romans 1:0 notes; also Ephesians 5:12 note. It is not possible, nor would it be proper, to describe the scenes of licentious indulgence of which all pagans are guilty. Since Christians were to be a special people, therefore the apostle enjoins on them purity and holiness of life.Not in strife - Strife and envying are the “third” class of sins from which the apostle exhorts them. The word “strife” means “contention, disputes, litigations.” The exhortation is that they should live in peace.Envying - Greek, Zeal. It denotes any intense, vehement, “fervid” passion. It is not improperly rendered here by envying. These vices are properly introduced in connection with the others. They usually accompany each other. Quarrels and contentions come out of scenes of drunkenness and debauchery. But for such scenes, there would be little contention, and the world would be comparatively at peace.