Owe no man anything - Be not “in debt” to anyone. In the previous verse the apostle had been discoursing of the duty which we owe to magistrates. He had particularly enjoined on Christians to pay to “them” their just dues. From this command to discharge fully this obligation, the transition was natural to the subject of debts “in general,” and to an injunction not to be indebted to “any one.” This law is enjoined in this place:The interpretation of this command is to be taken with this limitation, that we are not to be indebted to him so as to “injure” him, or to work “ill” to him.This rule, together with the other rules of Christianity, would propose a remedy for all the evils of bad debts in the following manner.(1) It would teach people to be “industrious,” and this would commonly prevent the “necessity” of contracting debts.(2) It would make them “frugal, economical,” and “humble” in their views and manner of life.(3) It would teach them to bring up their families in habits of industry. The Bible often enjoins that; see the note at Romans 12:11; compare Philippians 4:8; Proverbs 24:30-34; 1 Thessalonians 4:11; 2 Thessalonians 3:10; Ephesians 4:25.(4) Religion would produce sober, chastened views of the end of life, of the great design of living; and would take off the affections from the splendor, gaiety, and extravagances which lead often to the contraction of debts; 1Th 5:6, 1 Thessalonians 5:8; 1Pe 1:13; 1 Peter 4:7; Tit 2:12; 1 Peter 3:3, 1Pe 3:5; 1 Timothy 2:9.(5) Religion would put a period to the “vices” and unlawful desires which now prompt people to contract debts.(6) It would make them “honest” in paying them. It would make them conscientious, prompt, friends of truth, and disposed to keep their promises.But to love one another - Love is a debt which “can” never be discharged. We should feel that we “owe” this to all people, and though by acts of kindness we may be constantly discharging it, yet we should feel that it can “never” be fully met while there is opportunity to do good.For he that loveth ... - In what way this is done is stated in Romans 13:10. The law in relation to our neighbor is there said to be simply that we do no “ill” to him. Love to him would prompt to no injury. It would seek to do him good, and would thus fulfil all the purposes of justice and truth which we owe to him. In order to illustrate this, the apostle, in the next verse, runs over the laws of the Ten Commandments in relation to our neighbor, and shows that all those laws proceed on the principle that we are to “love” him, and that love would prompt to them all.