For if our heart condemn us, God is greater, etc. A very difficult passage. See critical note as above. Render, as Rev., shall assure our heart before Him whereinsoever our heart condemn us, because God is greater than our heart. For [οτι] . To be rendered not as a conjunction (for, because) but as a relative, in whatsoever or whereinsoever. Condemn [καταγινωσκη] . The word occurs only three times in the New Testament; here, ver. 21, and Galatians 2:11. It signifies (1.) To note accurately, usually in a bad sense. Hence to detect (Proverbs 28:11); compare Aristophanes : "Having observed [καταγνους] the foibles of the old man" (" Knights, "46). To form an unfavorable prejudice against. So Herodotus. Datis says to the Delians," Why are ye fled, O holy men, having judged me [καταγνοντες κατ εμευ] in so unfriendly a way? "(vi. 97). (2.) To note judicially : to accuse : to accuse one's self. So Thucydides :" No one, when venturing on a perilous enterprise, ever yet passed a sentence of failure on himself "(katagnouv eJautou mh periesesqai; 1 John 3:45). To give sentence, or condemn. To condemn to death." Those who had fled they condemned to death "(qanaton katagnontev; Thucydides, 6, 60). To decide a suit against one. So Aristophanes :" You judges have no maintenance if you will not decide against [καταγνωσεσθε] this suit "(" Knights," 1360). In Galatians 2:11, it is said of Peter that, because of his concessions to the Jewish ritualists, kategnwsmenov hn he stood condemned or self - condemned (not as A. V., he was to be blamed). His conduct was its own condemnation. This is the sense in this passage, the internal judgment of conscience. Because [οτι] . This second oti does not appear in the A. V. It is a conjunction. Greater [μειζων] . Is this superior greatness to be regarded as related to God 's judgment, or to His compassion ? If to His judgment, the sense is : God who is greater than our heart and knows all things, must not only endorse but emphasize our self - accusation. If our heart condemn, how much more God, who is greater than our heart. If to His compassion, the sense is : when our heart condemns us we shall quiet it with the assurance that we are in the hands of a God who is greater than our heart - who surpasses man in love and compassion no less than in knowledge. This latter sense better suits the whole drift of the discussion. See critical note. There is a play of the words ginwskei knoweth, and kataginwskh condemneth, which is untranslatable.