 13 .] Transition to the antithetical parallel which he is about to draw between the former, earthly and ceremonial, and the latter, heavenly and actual tabernacle: see summary at ch. Hebrews 9:1 .  In saying (cf. reff. Here, as in each of those, the subject is God, belonging here to the following verb πεπαλαίωκεν : ‘  when God saith ’), “  a new (covenant),” He hath made old (  παλαιόω , a word peculiar to biblical usage, and in the N. T. to Heb. and St. Luke. The LXX have it a few times, in this same meaning: e. g. Lamentations 3:4 , ἐπαλαίωσεν σάρκα μου καὶ δέρμα μου : Job 9:5 , ὁ παλαιῶν ὅρη . Cf. also Job 32:15 ; Isaiah 65:22 ; Dan 7:25 Theod.  Made old , viz. by speaking of, and where God is the speaker, actually in decree establishing, seeing that all God’s sayings are realities, a new one. Some have taken the word as signifying “  hath set aside, abrogated ,” “  antiquavit ,” as Erasmus. But this, besides being unexampled, and not answering to the technical meaning of ‘antiquare,’ does not tally with the present participle of the same verb below, which cannot be rendered ‘is being abrogated:’ see below. Far better is the rendering, of somewhat questionable Latinity, but very expressive, “veteravit,” of the ital. and vulg.: see again below)  the first (covenant). Now (transition, by  δέ , from a particular assertion, to an axiomatic general truth: as in Rom 14:23 )  that which is being made old (the saying of God πεπαλαίωκεν that first covenant: the state of παλαίωσις thereby induced, continues, as the perfect (not aor., ἐπαλαίωσε , because the act was not a passing one, contemporaneous with the saying) shews, and hence the covenant παλαιοῦται continually. The vulg., which had “veteravit” before, here adopts “  antiquatur ” for the old ital. “veteratur,” which, as above shewn, was far better)  and getting into old age (see reff.: and cf. Xen. Vectig. i. 4, of fruits of the earth, τοῖς ἐπ ʼ ἐνιαυτὸν θάλλουσί τε καὶ γηράσκουσι : id. Ages. ii. 14, ἡ μὲν τοῦ σώματος ἰσχὺς γηράσκει , ἡ δὲ τῆς ψυχῆς ῥώμη … ἀγήρατός ἐστιν : Herodian iii. 2. 15, τὰ ἐκείνων γηράσαντα καὶ παρ ʼ ἀλλήλοις συντριβέντα Μακεδόσιν εὐάλωτα καὶ Ῥωμαίοις δοῦλα γεγένηται ),  is nigh unto (see ref. and note)  vanishing away ( εἰς ἀφανισμὸν εἶναι or γενέσθαι is a common phrase with the LXX. See reff., and 3 Kings 9:7; 4 Kings 22:19 &c., in Trommius. The Writer uses the expression of the whole time subsequent to the utterance of the prophecy. At that time the παλαίωσις began, by the mention of a new covenant: and from that time the first covenant might be regarded as ever dwindling away, so to speak, and near its end, which God might bring on at any time. It is far better to regard the  ἐγγὺς ἀφανισμοῦ thus, than, with some, to place it at the time of the Writer, when in fact it had already taken place).