 1 .]  Now the principal matter (  κεφάλαιον most usually has this meaning. So Thuc. iv. 50, ἐν αἷς ( ἐπιστολαῖς ) πολλῶν ἄλλων γεγραμμένων , κεφάλαιον ἦν κ . τ . λ .: Plato, Gorg. p. 453 A, ἡ πραγματεία αὐτῆς ( τῆς ῥητορικῆς ) ἅπασα κ . τὸ κεφάλαιον εἰς τοῦτο τελευτᾷ : Demosth. p. 815. 6, καὶ τὸ μὲν κεφάλαιον ἀδικημάτων , ὡς ἂν συντομώτατ ʼ εἴποι τις , τοῦτ ʼ ἐστίν : and see many more examples in Bl. and Wetst., as in Thl., τὸ μέγιστον καὶ συνεκτικώτερον . The other meaning,  sum total , would be apposite enough here, were the sense of κεφ . confined to Hebrews 8:1 , which has been treated of before: but Heb 8:2 contains new particulars, which cannot be said to be the  sum of any things hitherto said. Besides, even were that condition fulfilled, this sense would require not the present participle  λεγομένοις , but the past, λεχθεῖσιν , or εἰρημένοις , and the participle itself would more probably be in the genitive, as in Isocr. Nicocl. p. 90, κεφάλαιον τῶν εἰρημένων : Themist. de Pace, p. 230, κεφάλαιον τοῦ παρόντος λόγου .
	κεφάλαιον is not, “  a principal matter,” as Lünem.: words thus thrown forward do not require the article to make them definite: cf. the examples given above)  in the things which we are saying (  ἐπί , ‘  upon :’ lying as it were, by, and among. This seems best; we might render it, as in Luke 16:26 , ‘  besides ,’ but the present part. seems to forbid rendering “the things already said,” as most Commentators and E. V. Hofmann, Schriftb. ii. 1, p. 287 f., adopts a curious arrangement: taking κεφάλαιον δέ by itself, he understands ἀρχιερεῦσιν after λεγομένοις , and renders, “besides these, who are called high priests, we have,” &c. This is far-fetched and unnatural: for had λεγομένοις borne any such meaning, we should certainly have had the predicate, which would thus be emphasized, expressed, and not understood: as in 1 Corinthians 8:5-6 , εἴπερ εἰσὶν λεγόμενοι θεοὶ κ . τ . λ ., ἀλλ ʼ ἡμῖν εἷς θεὸς κ . τ . λ .):  we have such an High Priest (emphasis on  τοιοῦτον , which refers, not to what preceded, but to what is to follow, viz. ὃς ἐκάθισεν κ . τ . λ .)  who sat down (“In ch. Hebrews 1:3 , the sitting at the right hand of God was mentioned as a pre-eminence of the Son above the angels, who stand as ministering spirits before the presence of God: here, where the same is said of Christ as High Priest, Schlichting, Limborch, Klee, al. rightly remark that there is again a pre-eminence in καθίσαι over the Jewish high priests: for these, even when they entered the holiest place, did not sit down by the throne of God, but only stood before it for a moment: cf. ch. Hebrews 10:11-12 , καὶ πᾶς μὲν ἀρχιερεὺς ἕστηκεν καθ ʼ ἡμέραν λειτουργῶν .… οὗτος δὲ .… εἰς τὸ διηνεκὲς ἐκάθισεν ἐν δεξιᾷ τοῦ θεοῦ .” Bleek. Lünem. calls this fanciful: but such distinctions are not surely to be overlooked altogether)  on the right hand of the throne of majesty in the heavens (better thus, than “of  the majesty in the heavens,” τῆς μεγ  τῆς ἐν τοῖς οὐρ . The last words,  ἐν τοῖς οὐρ  . , may belong not merely to τῆς μεγαλως ., but to the whole preceding, ἐκάθ . ἐν δεξ . τοῦ θρ . τῆς μεγ . But see on ch. Hebrews 1:3 , where we have the very similar expression, ἐκάθισεν ἐν δεξιᾷ τῆς μεγαλωσύνης ἐν ὑψηλοῖς : and where it seems simpler to join ἐν ὑψ . with τῆς μεγαλωσύνης . If taken as above, it will be best for this reason also to drop the English definite art. before ‘  majesty ,’ and regard  τῆς μεγ  . as abstract. Hofmann (Schriftb. ii. 1. 289, and Weissagung u. Erfüllung, ii. 190) strangely joins ἐν τοῖς οὐρ . with what follows, an order which hardly could be imagined in this Epistle, and wholly unnecessary for the sense, in which, Christ having been once asserted to have sat down in the heavens, it necessarily follows that the ἅγια afterwards spoken of are ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς . On the expression  ὁ θρόν  .   τῆς μεγ  . Thl. remarks, τὸν πατρικόν φησι , ἢ ὅτι καὶ ὁ πατὴρ λεχθείη ἂν αὐτῷ μεγαλωσύνη , ἢ ὅτι ἁπλῶς οὕτω θρόνος μεγαλωσύνης ὁ μέγιστος θρόνος . The former and not the latter is evidently the sense here. All such mere periphrases of the adjectival predicate would be unworthy of the solemnity and dignity of the subject and style),