 6 .]  But now (the logical, not the temporal νυνί , as in ch. Hebrews 9:26 ; Hebrews 11:16 ( νῦν ), and frequently in St. Paul: ‘ut res se habet:’ νυνὶ δέ φησιν , ἐπειδὴ μὴ ἔστιν ἐν τῇ γῇ , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν τῷ οὐρανᾷ , βελτίονος ἐπέτυχε λειτουργίας , τουτέστιν ἐπὶ βελτίονα λειτουργίαν ἐστὶν ἀρχιερεύς Œc.)  He hath obtained (  τέτευχα (rec.) is properly the Ionic form of the perfect, but occurs in Aristotle and later writers: but  τέτυχα is also found in later writers, as Plutarch and Diod. Sic. The other reading here, τετύχηκεν , is the true Attic form)  a more excellent ministry (than that of any earthly priests),  in proportion as (there is an ellipsis in the earlier clause of τοσούτῳ , which now lurks under the comparative: so in ch. Heb 3:3 )  He is also ( καί , introducing a special reference to an already acknowledged fact, as in ch. Hebrews 6:7 , where see note)  mediator (see reff. The meaning of  μεσίτης , a later Greek word, is not far from that of ἔγγυος , one who becomes a goer between two persons, assuring to each the consent of the other to some point agreed on in common. The Atticists give us the Attic Greek for it, μεσέγγυος . Philo uses the title of Moses, οἷα μεσίτης κ . διαλλακτὴς … τὰς ὑπὲρ τοῦ ἔθνους ἐποιεῖτο . And so St. Paul, in ref. Gal. The genitive after μεσίτης may either be of the  persons between whom , as in ref. 1 Tim., εἷς καὶ μεσίτης θεοῦ κ . ἀνθρώπων : or of  one of the parties concerned , as in Jos. Antt. xvi. 2. 2, τῶν παρ ʼ Ἀγρίππα τινῶν ἐπιζητουμένων μεσίτης ἦν : or of the  object of the mediation , the agreement or covenant, as Diod. Sic. iv. 54, μεσίτην γεγονότα τῶν ὁμολογιῶν ἐν Κόλχοις : Jos. Antt. iv. 6. 7, ταῦτα ὀμνύοντες ἔλεγον καὶ θεὸν μεσίτην ὧν ὑπισχνοῦντο ποιούμενοι . And in this last sense is the gen. here. Jesus is the mediator, between God and us)  of a better covenant, of one which (  ἥτις , ‘  quippe quæ ,’ as always. This specific relative brings the thing referred to into its category, not only identifying it as ἡ would do, but classing it, and educing its property as belonging to the matter in hand: and thus having a ratiocinative force)  has been laid down (see on ref. The word  νόμος is also used of the new covenant by St. James, James 1:25 ; James 2:12 ; see also James 4:12 , and St. Paul, Romans 3:27 ; Romans 8:2 ; Rom 9:31 )  upon (on the condition of …: so Xen. Hell. ii. 2. 20, ἐποιοῦντο εἰρήνην , ἐφ ʼ ᾧ τά τε μακρὰ τείχη … καθελόντας κ . τ . λ .)  better promises (viz. those which are about to be particularized in the following citation. Theodoret says, ἡ μὲν γὰρ παλαιὰ διαθήκη σωματικὰς ἐπαγγελίας εἶχε συνεζευγμένας , γῆν ῥέουσαν γάλα κ . μέλι … καὶ παίδων πλῆθος , κ . τὰ τούτοις προσόμοια · ἡ δὲ καινὴ ζωὴν αἰώνιον κ . οὐρανῶν βασιλείαν . And so Œc., Thl., Primas., Bengel, al. But as Bleek objects, it would be very improbable that the Writer should intend to refer the promises, on which the old covenant was based, to mere earthly blessings, in the face of such a designation of the hope of Abraham and the patriarchs as we find in ch. Heb 11:10-19 ).