 8 .]  For (there is an ellipsis of ζητεῖται δέ , and the  γάρ introduces the substantiation of the assertion)  blaming them (so ref. 2 Macc., μεμψάμενος αὐτοῖς  εἶπεν . The dative after μέμφομαι is common in Greek: see Herod. iii. 4; iv. 180: Xen. Cyr. i. 4. 6, and many other examples in Bleek. But seeing that it appears difficult, after the word ἄμεμπτος has been used of the  covenant , to apply the blame in μεμφόμενος to any object but the covenant, many Commentators have taken the participle absolutely, and joined αὐτοῖς with λέγει . So Faber Stapulensis, Piscator, Schlichting, Grot., Limborch, Peirce, Michaelis, Storr, Kuinoel, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., al. But I cannot believe that the objective pronoun would be so loosely and ambiguously put, were it meant to be joined to λέγει . It surely must have been λέγει αὐτοῖς . And there is a propriety, which the ancients have not failed to observe, in αὐτοῖς , instead of αὐτῇ or αὐτήν . So Chrys., having explained εἰ .… ἦν ἄμεμπτος , by εἰ ἀμέμπτους ἐποίει , proceeds, ὅτι γὰρ περὶ τούταυ φησίν , ἄκουε τὰ ἑξῆς · … οὐκ εἶπε μεμφόμενος δὲ αὐτῇ , ἀλλά , μ . δὲ αὐτοῖς . And so Syr., vulg., Œc., Thl., Luther, Calv., Beza, Bengel, Wolf, al.)  He saith (the following citation is the great prophetic passage Jeremiah 31:31-34 , see also Ezekiel 36:25-27 . “After the sack of Jerusalem, Jeremiah with the other captives was brought in chains to Rama, where Nebuzaradan had his head quarters. There took place, at God’s special command, his prophecies of the future entire restoration of Israel, of another David, of Rachel’s wailing over her children at Rama, and their future return, of the new covenant resting on absolute and veritable forgiveness of sins which Jehovah would make with his people, these prophecies forming the third part of the third trilogy of the three great trilogies into which the prophecies of Jeremiah may be divided: ch. 21 25, the book against the shepherds of the people; ch. 26 29, the book of Jeremiah’s conflict against the false prophets; ch. Jer 30:31, the book of restoration.” Delitzsch. “The question which has before now been abundantly handled, whether the saying refers to the return of the exiles, or to the covenant of which Christ is the mediator, or to the future general conversion of the Jews, or whether some things in it to one of these, some to another, or whether the whole in its lower literal sense to the return of the exiles and in its higher spiritual sense to Christ and His kingdom, must be answered by the considerations before adduced on ch. Hebrews 1:5 . It belongs throughout to the cycle of Messianic prophecies, and is one of the most beautiful and sublime of them; and its true fulfilment can only be sought in the covenant brought in by the Saviour, and in the salvation through Him imparted to mankind, and ever more and more unfolded and completed. This is the case, however this salvation, in the perception and declaration of the Prophet, is bound up with the restoration of the ancient covenant people and their reunion in the land of their home.” Bleek),  Behold, the days come, saith the Lord ( φησι κύριος LXX-B, but λέγει [39] [40] . “The prophecy, taken from this rich cycle of eschatologic prophecies, whose clear Messianic sense allows of no evasion, begins with Jeremiah’s constant formula, ἰδοὺ ἡμέραι ἔρχονται .” Delitzsch),  and (  καί explicative, answering to the Heb. ו־ in an apodosis),  I will accomplish upon (LXX, διαθήσομαι τῷ οἴκῳ κ . τ . λ . The difference is beyond doubt intentional, to set forth the completeness of the new covenant. Twice in this same book (reff.), the LXX have rendered this same Heb. expression, כָּרַת בְּרִית by συντελεῖν διαθήκην . Augustine urges the word “consummabo,” De Spir. et Lit. c. 19 (34), vol. x. pt. i, “Quid est consummabo, nisi implebo?”  ἐπί , with the accusative of motion, the covenant being brought upon them)  the house of Israel and upon the house of Judah (both these, Israel first and Judah afterwards, were sent into captivity for their sins: and both are specified severally in God’s promise of grace and restoration)  a new covenant (on  διαθήκη see on ch. Heb 7:22 ),
	 [39] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [40] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .