 5 .]  men who ( ἱερεῖς τῶν Ἰουδαίων φησί , Œc. By  οἵτινες is pointed out the class, or official description: mean those who’)  serve (  λατρεύειν occurs eight times in St. Luke, four times in St. Paul, and six times in this Epistle, It has more the general sense of ‘serving,’ either God, as almost always, or some especial portion of divine service or sacred things, as here and ch. Hebrews 13:10 . λειτουργεῖν is the more proper word for priestly ministration. On the construction, see below)  the delineation ( ὑπόδειγμα cannot as in ch. Heb 4:11 mean, a pattern, or example: but must be taken, less usually but more strictly as answering to ὑποδεικνύναι , ‘oculis subjicere,’ here and in ch. Hebrews 9:23 , as meaning a suggestive representation, or sketch. So Thl., ὑποδείγματα , τουτέστιν ἀμυδρὰ δείγματα καὶ οἷον σκιαγραφήματα τὰ ἐν τῇ παλαιᾷ ὑποδειχθέντα τῷ Μωυσεῖ . It corresponds to δειχθέντα σοι in the following citation)  and shadow (‘adumbration,’ σκιαγράφημα . See on ch. Hebrews 10:1 , where σκιά and εἰκών are contrasted. As regards the construction: Calvin, Bengel, al. take λατρεύουσιν absolutely, and ὑποδείγματι κ . τ . λ . ablatively: “who serve (God) in a delineation and shadow” &c. But this is far-fetched, and unnecessary, especially in the presence of ch. Hebrews 13:10 , where it is hardly possible to regard τῇ σκηνῇ otherwise than as the objective dative to λατρεύοντες )  of the heavenly things (i. e. the things in heaven, in the heavenly sanctuary: correspondent to τὸν τύπον τὸν δειχθέντα σοι ἐν τῷ ὄρει : see also ch. Hebrews 9:23-24 . Chrys. understands it of  spiritual things: τίνα λέγει ἐνταῦθα τὰ ἐπουράνια ; τὰ πνευματικά · εἰ γὰρ καὶ ἐπὶ γῆς τελεῖται , ἀλλ ʼ ὅμως τῶν οὐρανῶν εἰσιν ἄξια , and then goes on to instance the work of the Spirit in baptism, the power of the keys, the utterance of Christian praise, &c. And Luther renders,  der himmlischen Guter . But the context clearly requires the other view):  even as Moses was commanded (“  admonished of God ,” E. V., an excellent rendering.  χρηματίζω is used in the later classics, but as early as Demosthenes, for to give a decisive answer, “responsum ex deliberatione reddere,” as Reiske. Hence it came afterwards to be appropriated mainly to responses, warnings, commands, given from the Deity: so Diod. Sic. iii. 6, τοὺς γὰρ θεοὺς αὐτοῖς ταῦτα κεχρηματικέναι ; xv. 10, περὶ δὲ τῶν χρησμῶν ἔφησε , μὴ χρηματίζειν τὸν θεὸν καθόλου περὶ θανάτου . And so constantly in the Scriptures both LXX and N. T. reff. and Jeremiah 32:30 (25:30); Jeremiah 37:2 (30:2); Luke 2:26 . The earlier classical verb is χράω of the deity giving the oracle, χράομαι of the person consulting it. Observe the perfect, not the aor., giving a fine distinction not reproducible in English: viz. that these figures of the heavenly things were still subsisting as ordained to Moses, when the Epistle was written)  when about to complete (not in distinction from  beginning , as if he were about to put the finishing stroke to the work already nearly ended: but involving the whole work: ‘to take in hand and carry on to completion’)  the tabernacle: for (  γάρ justifies the assertion by the following citation)  Take heed, He says (supply ὁ θεός ; there can be no doubt of this here, where the words following are God’s own),  that thou makest ( ποιήσῃς and ποιήσεις give a like sense, and in English must be expressed by the same. The former is better Greek; the latter according to the LXX: manuscript authority must prevail)  all things ( πάντα is not in the LXX, nor in the Heb., but is supplied also by Philo, Legg. Allegor. iii. 33, vol. i. p. 108, κατὰ τὸ παράδειγμα τὸ δεδειγμένον σοι ἐν τῷ ὄρει πάντα ποιήσεις )  according to the pattern which was shewn (LXX, δεδειγμένον )  thee in the mount . If now we ask what this  τύπος was, we are met with various replies. Faber Stapulensis says, “Arbitror id insinuare, non nudam veritatem in monte Mosi fuisse ostentatam, sed veritatis adumbrationem et remotam quandam ideam. Et quomodo etiam vidisset veritatem, nisi per speciem nude et revelate divina conspexisset, quod viatorum et adhuc in vita mortali peregrinantium non est. Typus igitur erat quod videbat, nondum ipsa veritas et archetypus.” And so Schlichting, concluding, “adeo ut tabernaculum antiquum exemplar tantum fuerit exemplaris, et umbra umbræ.” This view, which is that also of Bleek and Storr, is strongly controverted by Delitzsch, who takes the  τύπος to be the veritable heavenly things themselves, not seen however by Moses directly and naturally, which would be impossible, but made visible to him in a vision. I do not see that there is much to choose between the two views. If the latter be taken, then surely the vision thus vouchsafed to Moses was itself only an intermediate representation, and so this view comes much to the same as the other.