 2 .]  minister ( λεῖτον ἐκάλουν οἱ παλαιοὶ τὸ δημόσιον , ὅθεν λειτουργεῖν τὸ εἰς τὸ δημόσιον ἐργάζεσθαι ἔλεγον . Schol. in Demosth. Lept. The LXX use the verb and subst. to express the Heb. שֵׁרֵת and מְשָׁרֵת , in reference to the sacerdotal service in the sanctuary: see, for the verb, Exodus 28:31 ; Exodus 28:39 ( Exo 28:35; Exo 28:43 ); Exodus 29:30 ; Exodus 35:18 ; Deuteronomy 3:0; Deuteronomy 3:0 Kings 8:11; 1 Chronicles 6:32 ; 2 Chronicles 13:10 ; Ezekiel 44:27 , where we have λειτουργεῖν ἐν τῷ ἁγίῳ : Eze 45:4 al.: and for the subst., Nehemiah 10:39 ; Isaiah 61:6 ; Sir 7:30 )  of the holy places (  τῶν ἁγίων is taken as  mase by τινες in Thl., and by Œc., τῶν ἡγιασμένων παρ ʼ αὐτοῦ ἀνθρώπων · ἡμῶν γάρ ἐστιν ἀρχιερεύς . But ἡμῶν  ἀρχιερεύς and ἡμῶν  λειτουργός are very different things. The λειτουργός is  subordinate to those whose minister he is, as in Jos 1:1 Λ , τῷ Ἰησοῦ … τῷ λειτουργῷ Μωυσῆ : see also 2Ki 13:18; 2 Kings 3 Kings 10:5; 4 Kings 4:43; Hebrews 6:15 ; 2 Chronicles 9:4 . See also Numbers 3:6 ; Numbers 18:2 . It is taken by Luther (  und ist ein pfleger der heiligen Guter ) as importing  holy things , as it seems to be in Philo, Leg. Alleg. iii. 46, vol. i. p. 114, τοιοῦτος δὲ ὁ θεραπευτὴς κ . λειτουργὸς τῶν ἁγίων , and De Profug. 17, p. 560, ἡ Λευϊτικὴ φυλὴ νεωκόρων κ . ἱερέων ἐστίν , οἷς ἡ τῶν ἁγίων ἀνάκειται λειτουργία . But this does not seem to answer to the usage of  τὰ ἅγια in our Epistle. Cf. reff., in which  τὰ ἅγια imports the holy place, i. e. the holy of holies. It does not seem necessary to supply any thing after  τῶν ἁγίων , as τῶν ἁληθινῶν , or τῶν ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς : this distinction is brought out by what follows. As yet Christ is spoken of as being in common with the Levitical priests τῶν ἁγίων λειτουργός . See below),  and of the true (archetypal,  only true , as so often in St. John, and in one passage of St. Luke, Luke 16:11 ; see reff. The difference between  ἀληθινός and ἀληθής is well sketched by Kahnis, Abendmahl, p. 119, cited in Delitzsch: “  ἀληθής excludes the untrue and unreal,  ἀληθινός that which does not fulfil its idea. The measure of  ἀληθής is reality, that of  ἀληθινός ideality. In  ἀληθής , the idea corresponds to the thing, in  ἀληθινός , the thing to the idea”)  tabernacle, which the Lord (here evidently the Father: see note on ch. Heb 12:14 )  pitched (the usual LXX word of fixing the tabernacle, or a tent: see reff. And so m the classics: e. g. Herod. vi. 12, and many examples in Bleek and Wetst. It is used similarly of the heaven in Isaiah 42:5 , ὁ ποιήσας τὸν οὐρανὸν καὶ πήξας αὐτόν ),  not (any)  man (not οὐχ ὁ ἄνθρωπος , which would be the literal way of expressing ‘not man,’ generically: because by the indefinite ἄνθρωπος , anarthrons, every individual man is excluded. It is an important question, symbolically considered, whether any and what distinction is intended by the Writer, between  τῶν ἁγίων and  τῆς σκηνῆς . Delitzsch, in loc., has gone into it at length, and Hofmann has treated of it in two places especially, Weiss. u. Erf. ii. 188 ff. and Schriftb. ii. 1. 405 f. Both are agreed that  τὰ ἅγια betokens the immediate, immaterial presence of God, the veritable Holy of Holies, beyond, and approached through, the heavens, ch. Hebrews 4:14 . But as regards  σκηνή , they differ. Hofmann maintains it to be the glorified body of Christ, and argues that it alone will satisfy such expressions as that in ch. Hebrews 9:11 , οὐ ταύτης τῆς κτίσεως : in order to satisfying which, this σκηνή must belong to the new creation, the παλιγγενεσία , which commences with the glorification of Christ. This glorified body of His is the new and abiding temple of God, in which He dwells and meets with us who are united to and have put on that glorified body, our house, eternal in the heavens: for so Hofmann interprets 2 Corinthians 5:1 ff. On the other hand, Delitzsch controverts this view as inconsistent with the symbolism in ch. Hebrews 9:11-12 , where Christ διὰ τῆς μείζονος κ . τελειοτέρας σκηνῆς … εἰσῆλθεν … εἰς τὰ ἅγια , taking this connexion of the words: and also with our Hebrews 8:5 , where the Mosaic tabernacle is set forth as the representation and shadow of the heavenly. Accordingly, he believes the σκηνή , here to be the heavenly Jerusalem, the worship-place (  Anbetungsstätte ) of blessed spirits ( Psa 29:9 ) and of those men who have been rapt in vision thither (Isaiah 6:0 ), the ναὸς τῆς σκηνῆς τοῦ μαρτυρίου of Revelation 15:5 , the place where God’s  visible presence (in contradistinction to His personal and invisible presence in the ἅγια ) is manifested to His creatures angelic and human. See much more, well worth studying, in his note here.
	In weighing these two opinions, I own they seem to me to run into one, and of that one by far the larger component is on Hofmann’s side. For what is the heavenly Jerusalem? What, but the aggregate, in their persons and their glorious abiding-place, of the triumphant saints and servants of God? And what is this aggregate, but the mystical body, of which Christ is the Head and they are the members, in its fulfilment and perfection? That glorified body of His, in which they are accepted before God, and in which as a heavenly temple, they serve God, and God dwells, He has passed through, not by passing out of it, but by finally establishing it as an accomplished thing in God’s sight, and in and as proceeding forth from it carrying on his intercession and λειτουργία τῆς σκηνῆς τῆς ἀληθινῆς in the ἅγια itself. See more on this subject, ch. Hebrews 9:11 ; and the views of Bleek, Tholuck, al.: also a sermon of Schleiermacher’s on the text, vol. ii. of his Predigten, p. 504. The idea of the σκηνή being the body of Christ is found in Joh. Philoponus (Cent. vii.) on Genesis 1:0 (in Bleek): τὸ δὲ τοῦ ἀποστόλου , “ καὶ τῆς σκηνῆς .… ἄνθρωπος ,” οὐχ οὕτω περὶ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ λελέχθαι μοι δοκεῖ , καθά τινες ἔφρασαν , ὡς περὶ τοῦ κυριακοῦ σώματος , εἰ ἐπιστήσει τις ἀκριβῶν τῷ τόπῳ , κατὰ τὸ εἰρημένον , καὶ ὁ λόγος σὰρξ ἐγένετο , καὶ ἐσκήνωσεν ἐν ἡμῖν . It is also the view of Beza, Gerhard, Owen, Bengel, al.).