 9 .] (this covenant is first specified negatively: it is  not to be like that first one)  not according to the covenant ( לֹא כַבְּרִית , different in quality from, not after the measure of)  which I made (LXX again, διεθέμην : see reff.)  to (not “  with :” it is a pure dative, and betokens mere agency on the part of the subject, God: the people of Israel, the objects, being only recipients, not co-agents)  their fathers, in the day of my taking hold of their hand (the idiom is Hebraistic: בְּיוֹם הֶחֱזִיקִי בְיָדָם . Justin M. Dial. c. Tryph. c. 11, p. 112, cites it ἐν ἡμέρᾳ ᾗ ἐπελαβόμην . This expression would shew beyond a doubt, being one which the Writer of our Epistle would never have adopted in a translation of his own, that he is quoting the LXX)  to bring them out of the land of Egypt: because they abode not in my covenant, and I disregarded them (thus, making  ὅτι render a reason for the foregoing, and attaching it to the whole following sentence, most of the moderns: and this is apparently most agreeable to the Heb., אֲשֶׁר־הֵמָּה הֵפֵרוּ אֶת־בְּרִיתִי , where, says Bleek, the אֲשֶׁר is only a particle of relation or connexion with the preceding, either for the subject, “quippe illi,” or for the object, “quod fœdus meum:” and either way it = “  for (or  because )  they broke my covenant .” But many take the sentence beginning with ὅτι as an independent one “because they abode not in my covenant, I also disregarded them.” So Chrys. ( αὐτὴν τὴν αἰτίαν δεικνύς , δι ʼ ἣν καταλιμπάνει αὐτούς ), Thl., Böhme, Kuinoel, Klee, al.),  saith ( φησί , LXX)  the Lord .
	On the fact,  οὐκ ἐνέμειναν , Delitzsch gives a striking quotation from Schelling, Offenbarungsphilosophie, “The Law appears to be the mere ideal of a religious constitution, as it has never existed in fact: in practice, the Jews were almost throughout polytheists. The substance of their national feeling was formed by heathendom: the accidents only, by revelation. From the queen of heaven down to the abominations of the Phœnicians, and even to Cybele, the Jews passed through every grade of paganism.” “In fact,” adds Delitzsch, “there is no period of the history of Israel before the captivity, in which more or less idolatry was not united with the worship of Jehovah, except the time of David and the first years of Solomon, during which the influence of Samuel still continued to be felt. And when by the captivity Idol-worship was completely eradicated from the people, as far at least as regards that part of it which returned, it is well known that a hypocritical letter-worship got the mastery over them, which was morally very little better.” See note on Matthew 12:43 .