 4 .]  Yea, if (or as rec., “  For if …,” which follows more smoothly and naturally on the position of Hebrews 8:2 , and on that very account is probably a correction. Hofmann, as above, laying all the stress on the aor. προσενέγκῃ , takes the  γάρ as justifying that aorist:  Er muss ein nicht erst darzubringendes, sondern, dargebrachtes Opfer haben: denn wäre er auf Erden … But see on this above. The connexion is obvious: ‘our High Priest must have somewhat to offer. But  on earth this could not be:  for ’ &c.)  he were (not, “  had been ,” though grammatically it might be so: the pres. part. ὄντων , which follows, and λατρεύουσι , continuing it, shew that this ἧν is spoken of a continuing, not of a past hypothesis)  on earth (some, as Grot., Wolf, al., supply μόνον after γῆς and something in the same view Œc., τοῦτο δὲ ἦν εἰ μὴ ἐτεθνήκει , μηδὲ ἐγερθεὶς ἀνελήφη : and Thdrt., περιττὸν ἦν αὐτὸν ἐν τῇ γῇ διαιτώμενον ἱερέα καλεῖν : others, as Gerhard, Heinrichs, al., supply ἀρχιερεύς or ἱερεύς : but this it seems to me would stultify the argument. There is no need of any thing supplied)  He would not even  be  a priest (observe the emphasis: which is not, as Bleek, He would not even be a  priest, much less a High Priest ( οὐδ ʼ ἱερεὺς ἂν ἦν ), but the stress is on the verb  ἦν , and it is taken ex concesso that the ἀρχιερεύς belonged to the genus ἱερεύς : ‘He would not even belong to the category of priests.’ In the background lies, ‘and if not so, certainly could not be a High Priest:’ but it is not brought forward, nor does it belong to the argument, which continues ὄντ  ων  , not ὄντος ),  since there are (  ὄντων , emphatic: ‘there are already:’ not, “  were ” (as Grot.: “  erant , nempe quum Psalmus iste scriberetur”), as is shewn by λατρεύουσιν below. The time indicated is that of writing the Epistle)  those who offer the gifts according to (  the )  law (  the law, equally, with or without the article; not only because but one law can be meant, but because the art. is so constantly omitted after a preposition even when required in translation),