We give thanks [ευχαριστουμεν] . According to Paul 's habit, a thanksgiving follows the salutation, commonly with the verb ejucaristein as here; but in 2nd Corinthians and Ephesians, eujloghtov oJ qeov blessed be God. The thanksgiving is omitted only in Galatians. The verb eujcaristein occurs only in later Greek, and there but rarely. In LXX only in Apocr. See Judith 8 25; 2 Macc. 1 11; 10 7; 3 Macc. 7 1 Thessalonians 1:16In the N. T. Epistles, P o. Originally to do a good turn; hence, to return a favor. The meaning to give thanks is late. The kindred noun eujcaristia giving of thanks, is found often in Paul. As a designation of the Lord 's Supper (Eucharist) it is not found in the N. T. Perhaps the earliest instance of its use in that sense is in Ignatius. See Philad. 4; Smyrn. 4, 8; Ephesians 8, Comp. Just. Mart. Revelation 1:64, Revelation 1:65. In we give thanks, it is not easy to decide whether Paul uses we as plural, or in the sense of i. Rom 3:9 seems to be a clear case of the latter usage. In 1 Thessalonians 3:1, 1 Thessalonians 3:2, hujdokhsamen we thought it good, and ejpemyamen we sent, can, apparently, refer only to Paul; and similarly, in 1 Thessalonians 3:6, prov hJmav unto us, can hardly include Silvanus who came with Timothy (comp. iii. 5). But it is significant that, in the Epistles which are written in Paul 's name alone (Romans, Galatians, Ephesians), only I is used, unless we except Galatians 1:8, which is doubtful. Paul and Timothy appear jointly as correspondents in Philippians, but the first person predominates throughout the letter. The same is true of 1st Corinthians, where Paul and Sosthenes are associated in the address, but the singular pronoun is used almost throughout. (See 1 Thessalonians 4:10-13; 1Th 9:4, 5, 25, 26). In Colossians Paul and Timothy appear in the address. The plural prevails to 1 Thessalonians 1:23, and alternates with the singular throughout the remainder. The alternations in 2nd Corinthians are very bewildering. On the whole, I think that occasional instances of the epistolary plural must be granted. It is not, however, Paul 's habitual usage. We is often employed as in ordinary correspondence or argument, where the writer or speaker associates himself with his readers or hearers. Abundant illustrations of this may be seen in Romans 6:0 and 8; but in other cases, when Paul speaks in the plural, he usually associates his fellow - ministers, mentally, with himself. 8 Making mention [μνειαν ποιουμενοι] . For the phrase see Romans 1:9; Ephesians 1:16; Philippians 1:4. Always in connection with prayer. In the sense of remember it appears in LXX, Job 14:13. In Psalms 111:4, to make a memorial. See further, on without ceasing, ver. 3. In my prayers [επι] . When engaged in offering my prayers. Epi here blends the local with the temporal sense. Prayers [προσευχων] . The more general term, and limited to prayer to God; while dehsiv petitionary prayer, supplication, may be addressed to man. Paul alone associates the two words. See Philippians 4:6; Ephesians 6:18. In classical Greek the word does not occur in the sense of prayer. It is found in later Greek, meaning a place for prayer, in which sense it appears in Acts 16:13, Acts 16:16. It signified either a synagogue, or an open praying - place outside of a city. 9