7, 8. What . . . then? Is the law
	sin? God forbid!—"I have said that when we were in the
	flesh the law stirred our inward corruption, and was thus the
	occasion of deadly fruit: Is then the law to blame for this?
	Far from us be such a thought." 
	Nay—"On the
	contrary" (as in Romans 8:37;
	1 Corinthians 12:22; Greek). 
	I had not known sin but by
	the law—It is important to fix what is meant by "sin"
	here. It certainly is not "the general nature of sin"
	[ALFORD, c.], though it be
	true that this is learned from the law for such a sense will not suit
	what is said of it in the following verses, where the meaning is the
	same as here. The only meaning which suits all that is said of it in
	this place is "the principle of sin in the heart of
	fallen man." The sense, then, is this: "It was by means of
	the law that I came to know what a virulence and strength of sinful
	propensity I had within me." The existence of this it did
	not need the law to reveal to him; for even the heathens recognized
	and wrote of it. But the dreadful nature and desperate power of it
	the law alone discovered—in the way now to be described. 
	for I had not known lust,
	except, c.—Here the same Greek word is unfortunately
	rendered by three different English ones—"lust" "covet";
	"concupiscence" (Romans 7:8)
	—which obscures the meaning. By using the word "lust"
	only, in the wide sense of all "irregular desire," or every
	outgoing of the heart towards anything forbidden, the sense will best
	be brought out; thus, "For I had not known lust, except the law
	had said, Thou shalt not lust; But sin, taking ('having taken')
	occasion by the commandment (that one which forbids it), wrought in
	me all manner of lusting." This gives a deeper view of the tenth
	commandment than the mere words suggest. The apostle saw in it the
	prohibition not only of desire after certain things there
	specified,  but of "desire after everything divinely
	forbidden"; in other words, all "lusting" or
	"irregular desire." It was this which "he had not
	known but by the law." The law forbidding all such desire so
	stirred his corruption that it wrought in him "all manner of
	lusting"—desire of every sort after what was forbidden.