Titus 1:6.  Blameless,  unaccused, as 1 Timothy 3:10; possibly with allusion to a summons to the people to lay objections against   the candidate. In view of the prevailing Cretan immorality, unblemished reputation was wisely made the first qualification.
	 One wife.  Is this against polygamy, or against second marriages, as most early fathers suppose, and   as the ancient Church sanctioned by canon law? For the latter view, it is urged (  a) polygamy could hardly be forbidden here, since it was then illegal; (  b)   the expression should in that case be negative (‘husband of no more than one’); (  c)  1 Timothy 5:9, which is a parallel expression, can only refer to a second marriage; (  d)   the feeling of antiquity was unfavourable to re-marriage. On the other hand, it is answered (  a)   such a sense is but obscurely expressed by these words, for they have no necessary reference to any past condition of the candidate for eldership; (  b)  1 Timothy 5:9 is not parallel, since it expressly speaks of widows, but this not of widowers; and (  c)   elsewhere Paul never forbids, but in certain cases (1 Timothy 5:14) counsels re-marriage. Others conjecture a reference to re-marriage after divorce, or to conjugal infidelity; but these appear far-fetched. It is difficult to decide. Perhaps the safest course  is  to understand the injunction as simply requiring men to be chosen whose marriage relations had been at every point normal or unexceptionable, a condition not so easily realized in that age.
	 Faithful  (  i.e.  believing) children shews Christianity had for some time been professed in Crete. The succeeding words,  not accused of  dissolute-ness, or  unruly  against parental authority (comp-1 Timothy 3:4-5), describe the elder’s children.
	Titus 1:7 breaks into details the general word ‘blameless’ of Titus 1:6: first giving as a reason for this qualification the nature of the office itself. Therefore he substitutes for the title elder or presbyter the more descriptive synonym  bishop,  or overseer. The elder’s function is to superintend the congregation, and be a  steward  or head servant over the house of God. Therefore he ought to be (1) not stubborn or unconciliatory; (2) not a hot-tempered man; or (3) loud over his cups; and (4) too ready with his fist. The three latter requirements describe one character, and give a low idea of the Cretan Christians. Also (5) not abusing his office for gain (cf. 1 Timothy 3:8; 1 Peter 5:2), as Paul accuses the heretics of doing, see below, Titus 1:11.
	