 17.   καθὼς γέγρ .] The words (ref.) are spoken of the numerous progeny of Abraham according to the flesh: but not without a reference to that covenant, according to the terms of which all nations were to be blessed in him. The Apostle  may here cite it as comparing his natural paternity of many nations with his spiritual one of all believers: but it seems more probable that he regards the prophecy as  directly announcing a paternity far more extensive than mere physical fact substantiated.
	These words are parenthetical, being merely a confirmation by Scripture testimony of ὅς ἐστιν πατ . πάντ . ἡμ ., with which (see below) the following words are immediately connected.
	 κατέναντι οὖ ἐπίστευσεν θεοῦ ] The meaning appears to be, ‘Abraham was the father of us all, though not physically, nor in actuality, seeing that we were not as yet, yet  in the sight and estimation of God , in his relation with God, with whom no obstacles of nature or time have force.’
	The resolution of the attraction must be κατέναντι θεοῦ , κατέναντι οὗ ἐπίστευσεν , as in ref. Luke,  before God, in whose sight he believed . (Chrysostom’s interpretation (and similarly Theodoret, al.), ὥσπερ ὁ θεὸς οὐκ ἔστι μερικὸς θεός , ἀλλὰ πάντων πατήρ , οὕτω καὶ αὐτὸς .… τὸ γὰρ ‘ κατέναντι ’  ὁμοίως ἐστί , does not fall in with the context, and is certainly a mistake.)
	 τοῦ ζωοπ  .   τ  .   νεκρ ]  Who quickens the dead , a general description of God’s almighty creative power (see 1Ti 6:13 ), applied particularly to the matter in hand the deadness of generative physical power in Abraham himself, which was quickened by God (but νεκρούς is a wider term than νενεκρωμένον , the  genus , of which that is a  species ). The peculiar excellence of Abraham’s faith, that it overleaped the obstacles of physical incapacity, and nonentity, and believed implicitly God’s promise. Compare 2 Corinthians 1:9 .
	 καὶ καλ  .   τὰ μὴ ὄντα ὡς ὄντα ] Much difficulty has been found here: and principally owing to an idea that this clause must minutely correspond with the former, and furnish another instance of God’s creative Almightiness. Hence Commentators have given to καλεῖν the sense which it has in reff., ‘  to summon into being ,’ and have understood ὡς ὄντα as if it were εἰς τὸ εἶναι . Thus, more or less, and with various attempts to escape from the violence done to the construction, Chrys., Grot., Elsn., Wolf, Fritzsche, Tholuck, Stuart, De Wette, al. I see however in this latter clause not a repetition or expansion of the former, but a new attribute of God’s omnipotence and eternity, on which Abraham’s faith was fixed,  Who calleth (nameth, speaketh of)  the things that are not, as being (as if they  were ). This He  did in the present case with regard to the seed of Abraham , which  did not as yet exist : the two key-texts to this word and clause being, ἐν Ἰσαὰκ  κληθήσεταί σοι σπέρμα ch. Romans 9:7 (see note there), and Acts 7:5 , ἐπηγγείλατο δοῦναι αὐτῷ εἰς κατάσχεσιν αὐτὴν καὶ τῷ σπέρματι αὐτοῦ μετ ʼ αὐτόν ,  οὐκ ὄντος αὐτῷ τέκνου . These τέκνα , which were at present in the category of τὰ μὴ ὄντα , and the nations which should spring, physically or spiritually, from him, God ἐκάλει ὡς ὄντα ,  spoke of as having an existence , which word Abraham believed. And here, as in the other clause, the καλεῖν τὰ μὴ ὄντα ὡς ὄντα is not confined to the case in point, but is a general attribute of all God’s words concerning things of time, past, present, and future, being to His Omnipotence and Omniscience,  all one . His purposes,  when formed , are  accomplished , save in so far as that evolution of secondary causes and effects intervenes, which is also His purpose. This also Abraham apprehended by his faith, which rested on God’s absolute power to do what He had promised (see below).