 2. ]  For if Abraham was [not ‘  were ’ as E. V.]  justified (assuming, as a fact known to all, that he  was justified by some means)  by works, he hath matter of boasting (not expressed here whether  in the sight of men , or  of God , but taken generally: the proposition being assumed, ‘He that has earned justification by works, has whereof to  boast ’). Then, in disproof of this, that Abraham has matter of boasting, whatever  men might think of him, or attribute to him (e.g. the perfect keeping of the law, as the Jews did), one thing at least is clear, that  he has none before God . (  πρός , probably as in the second ref.,  with , in the sense of  chez : apud Deum.) This we can prove, ( Rom 4:3 )  for what saith the Scripture? Abraham believed God (God’s promise)  and it ( τὸ πιστεῦσαι )  was reckoned (so LXX. Heb., ‘He reckoned it’)  to him as (ch. Rom 2:26 )  righteousness .
	The whole question so much mooted between Protestants on the one hand, and Romanists, Arminians, and Socinians on the other, as to whether this righteousness was reckoned (1) ‘  per fidem ,’ being  God’s righteousness imputed to the sinner; or (2) ‘  propter fidem ,’ so that God made Abraham righteous  on account of the merit of his faith , lies in fact in a small compass, if what has gone before be properly taken into account. The Apostle has proved Jews and Gentiles to be  all under sin : utterly unable by works of their own to attain to righteousness. Now  faith , in the second sense mentioned above, is strictly and entirely  a work , and as such would be the  efficient cause of man’s justification, which, by what has preceded,  it cannot be . It will therefore follow, that it was not the  act of believing which was reckoned to him as a righteous act, or on account of which perfect righteousness was laid to his charge, but that the  fact of his trusting God to perform His promise introduced him into the blessing promised . God declared his purpose ( Gen 12:3 ) of blessing all the families of the earth in Abraham, and again ( Gen 15:5 ) that his seed should be as the stars of heaven, when as yet he had no son. Abraham  believed this promise, and became partaker of this blessing . But this blessing was,  justification by faith in Christ . Now Abraham could not, in the strict sense of the words, be justified by faith  in Christ , nor is it necessary to suppose that he directed his faith forward to the promised Redeemer in Person; but in so far as God’s gracious purpose was revealed to him, he grasped it by faith, and that righteousness which was implied, so far, in it, was imputed to him. Some have said (Tholuck, e.g.) that the parallel is incomplete Abraham’s  faith having been reckoned to him for righteousness, whereas, in our case,  the righteousness of Christ is reckoned to us as our righteousness,  by faith. But the incompleteness lies in the nature of the respective cases. In his case,  the righteousness itself was not yet manifested. He believed  implicitly , taking the  promise, with all it involved and implied, as true . This then was his way of entering into the promise, and by means of his faith was bestowed upon him that full justification which that faith never apprehended. Thus  his faith itself , the mere fact of implicit trust in God, was counted to  him for righteousness. But though  the same righteousness is imputed to us who believe, and by means of faith also, it is no longer the mere fact of believing implicitly in God’s truth, but the reception of  Christ Jesus the Lord by faith, which justifies us (see Rom 4:23-25 and note). As it was then the realization of God’s words by faith, so now: but  we have  the Person of the Lord Jesus for the object of faith , explicitly revealed:  he had not . In both cases justification is  gratuitous , and is  by faith ; and so far, which is as far as the argument here requires, the parallel is strict and complete.