 11. ]  And he received (from God)  the sign (token, or symbol)  of circumcision (gen. of apposition, see reff. The reading περιτομήν appears to have been an alteration on account of σφραγῖδα following),  a seal (the Targum on Song of Solomon 3:8 , cited by Tholuck, has the expression, ‘the seal of circumcision,’ and in Sohar, Leviticus 6:21 , it is called ‘a holy sign.’ So also Baptism is called in the Acta Thomæ, § 26, ἡ σφραγὶς τοῦ λουτροῦ , and elsewhere in the Fathers simply ἡ σφραγίς . Grabe, Spicil. Patr. i. 333)  of the righteousness (to stamp, and certify the righteousness)  of the faith (gen. of apposition (but not  in appos. with δικ . by  construction ), ‘of the righteousness which consisted in his faith,’ not, ‘of his justification by faith:’ the present argument treats of faith  accounted as righteousness)  which was (or, ‘  which he had :’ τῆς may refer either to δικ . or to πίστ ., but better to the former, because the object is to shew that the righteousness was imputed in uncircumcision)  during his uncircumcision . In literal historical matter of fact, Abraham received circumcision as a seal of  the covenant between God and him ( Gen 17:1-14 ). But this covenant was only a  renewal of that very one, on the promise of which Abraham’s faith was exercised , Genesis 15:5-6 , and each successive renewal of which was a fresh approval of that faith. The Apostle’s point is, that the righteousness was reckoned, and the promise made, to Abraham,  not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision .
	 εἰς τὸ εἶναι  .… ]  In order that he might be (not ‘so that he is;’ see Gal 3:7 )  the father of all in uncircumcision ( διὰ , see reff., ‘conditionis’)  that believe .
	Abraham is  the father of the faithful . But the triumph and recognition of that faith whereby he was constituted so, was not during his circumcision, but during his uncircumcision: therefore  the faithful, his descendants, must not be confined to the circumcised, but must take in the uncircumcised also .
	On πατέρα in this sense, Tholuck compares the expression Genesis 4:20 ; 1Ma 2:54 ( Φινεὲς ὁ πατὴρ ἡμῶν ἐν τῷ ζηλῶσαι ζῆλον ), and Maimonides, ‘Moses is the father of all the prophets who succeeded him.’ See also our Lord’s saying, John 8:37 ; John 8:39 . The Rabbinical book Michlal Jophi on Malachi 2:0 . (Thol.) has a sentiment remarkably coincident with that in our text: “Abraham is the father of all those who follow his faith.”
	 εἰς τὸ λογ . κ . τ . λ .] (is in  fact parenthetical, whether brackets are used or not; for otherwise the construction from the former to the latter πατέρα would not proceed)  in order that the righteousness (which Abraham’s faith was  reckoned as being , the righteousness of God, then hidden though imputed, but now revealed in Jesus Christ)  might be imputed to them also .