 25 .] Here we have another example of the alliterative use of the same preposition where the meanings are clearly different (see above, Rom 4:23-24 ). Our Lord was delivered up (to death) for or on account of our sins (i.e.  because we had sinned ): He was also raised up (from the dead) for or on account of our justification (i.e. not  because we had been , but  that we might be justified ). This separate statement of the great object of the death and resurrection of Christ must be rightly understood, and each member of it not unduly pressed to the exclusion of the other. The great complex event by which our justification (death unto sin and new birth unto righteousness) has been made possible, may be stated in one word as the GLORIFICATION of Christ. But this glorification consisted of two main parts, His Death, and His Resurrection. In the former of these, He was made a sacrifice for sin; in the latter, He elevated our humanity into the participation of that Resurrection-life, which is also, by union with Him, the life of every justified believer. So that, when taking the two  apart , the  Death of Christ is more properly placed in close reference to  forgiveness of sins , His Resurrection, to  justification unto life everlasting. And thus the Apostle treats these two great events, here and in the succeeding chapters. But he does not view them respectively as the causes,  exclusively of one another , of forgiveness and justification: e.g. (1) ch. Romans 5:9 , we are said to be justified  by His blood , and 2Co 5:21 God made Him sin for us,  that we might become the righteousness of God in Him: and (2) 1 Corinthians 15:17 , if Christ is not raised,  we are yet in our sins . So that, though these great events have their separate propriety of reference to the negative and positive sides of our justification, the one of them cannot be treated separately and exclusively of the other, any more than can the negative side of our justification, the non-imputation of our sin, without the positive, the imputation of God’s righteousness.
	It will be seen from what I have said above that I cannot agree with Bp. Horsley’s view, that as our transgressions were the  cause of Jesus being delivered up, so our justification must be the  cause of His being raised again. Such a pressing of the same sense on διὰ is not necessary, when Paul’s manifold usages of the same preposition are considered: and the regarding our justification (in the sense here) as a fact past, is inconsistent with the very next words, δικαιωθέντες ἐκ πίστεως , which shew that  not the objective fact , but its  subjective realization , is here meant. In these words (of Rom 4:25 ) the Apostle  introduces the great subject of chaps. 5 8, DEATH,  as connected with SIN,  and LIFE,  as connected with RIGHTEOUSNESS. The various ramifications of this subject see in the headings below.