 13. ]  γάρ , strictly  for . The argumentation is an expansion of πατέρα πάντ . τῶν πιστευόντων above. If these believers are Abraham’s  seed , then his promised inheritance is  theirs .
	 διὰ νόμου ] not, ‘  under the law ,’ nor, ‘  by works of the law .’ nor, ‘  by the righteousness of the law :’ but,  through the law , so that the law should be the  ground , or  efficient cause , or medium, of the promise. None of these it was, as matter of historical fact.
	 For not through the law was the promise (made)  to Abraham, or ( ἤ in negative sentences answers to καί in affirm., see Mat 5:17 )  to his seed, viz. that he should be heir of the world, but by the righteousness of faith . This specification of the promise has perplexed most of the Commentators. The actual promise, Gen. ( Gen 12:2-3 ) Genesis 13:14 ; Genesis 15:18 ; Genesis 17:8 , was the possession of the  land of Canaan . But the Rabbis already had seen, and Paul, who had been brought up in their learning, held fast the truth, that much more was intended in the words which accompany this promise, ‘In thee (or in thy seed) shall all families of the earth be blessed,’ than the mere possession of Canaan. They distinctly trace the gift of the world to Abraham to  this promise , not to the foregoing. So Bemidbar Rabb. xiv. 202. 3 (Wetst.), ‘Hortus est mundus, quem Deus tradidit Abrahamo, cui dictum est, “et eris benedictio” ’ (see other citations in Wetst.). The  inheritance of the world then is not the possession of Canaan merely (so that κόσμου should = γῆς ) either  literally , or as a  type of a better possession, but that  ultimate lordship over the whole world which Abraham, as the father of the faithful in all peoples, and Christ, as the Seed of Promise, shall possess: the  former figuratively indeed and only implicitly, the  latter personally and actually. See ch. Romans 8:17 ; Matthew 5:5 ; 2Ti 2:12 ; 1 Corinthians 15:24 .
	Another difficulty, that this promise was  made chronologically  before the reckoning of his faith for righteousness, is easily removed by remembering that the (indefinite) making of the promise is here treated of as the  whole process of its assertion , during which Abraham’s faith was shewn, and the promise continually confirmed.  αὐτόν  includes his seed.