 7 .] The Apostle now returns to the description of the locusts themselves.  And the shapes (so E. V., rightly: not, the  likenesses . ὁμοίωμα is the product of ὁμοιόω : the finished form of any thing which is made like ( ὅμοιον ) to any pattern. See Winer, edn. 6, § 16. A. 2, α )  of the locusts (  were )  like horses made ready for war (this resemblance, cf. ref. Joel, ἡ ὅρασις αὐτ  ῶν ὡς ὅρασις ἵππων , has been noticed by travellers. Winer, Realw. art.  Heuschrecken , refers to Niebuhr, Beschreibung, 173. Ewald gives other references, and says, “refert omnino animal equini corporis quædam similia, unde nostris etiam  Heupferd dici notum est.” And especially does it hold good when the horse is equipped for war; the plates of the horse’s armour being represented by the hard laminæ of the outer shell of the locust: see below, Rev 9:9 ),  and on their heads as it were crowns like unto gold (it is not easy to say what this part of the description imports. Elliott tries to apply it to the turban: but granting some latitude to στέφανοι , the ὅμοιοι χρυσῷ will hardly bear this. The appearance of a turban, even when ornamented with gold, is hardly  golden . I should understand the words, of the head actually ending in a crown-shaped fillet which resembled gold in its material, just as the wings of some of the beetle tribe might be said to blaze with gold and gems. So we have below εἶχον θώρακας ὡς θ . σιδηροῦς : the material not being metallic, but only quasi-metallic. Eichhorn and Heinr. understand these crowns of soldiers’ helmets: but this is quite arbitrary and gratuitous):  and their faces (  were )  as the faces of men (Düsterdieck well observes, that we must not suppose them actually to have had human faces, but that the face of the locust, which under ordinary circumstances has a distant resemblance to the human countenance, bore this resemblance even more notably in the case of these supernatural locusts. It is not τὰ πρ . αὐτῶν πρόσωπα ἀνθρ . but  ὡς πρόσωπα ἀνθρ . Nor again can we agree with Mr. Elliott’s idea that ἀνθρώπων is here used to designate the male sex: an interpretation recommended to him by his wish to introduce the moustache of the Arabs. Wherever the general term ἄνθρωπος is used for the particular sex, it must, as in the case of our “  man ,” be necessarily so interpreted by the context, as is the case in every one of the passages cited by Mr. E. in support of his view, viz. Matthew 19:3 ; Matthew 19:5 ; Matthew 19:10 ; 1 Corinthians 7:1 ; Genesis 2:18 ; Exodus 13:2 ; Leviticus 20:10 ; Esther 4:10 ( ἄνθρωπος ἢ γυνή ); Ecclesiastes 7:28 ; Isaiah 4:1 . But here there is no such necessity in the context: nay, it is much more natural to take ἀνθρώπων as the general term, their faces were like human faces, and then comes the limitation, not in the face, but in another particular),  and they had hair as the hair of women (i. e. long and flowing, 1 Corinthians 11:14 f. De Wette quotes from Niebuhr an Arabic proverb in which the antlers of locusts are compared to the hair of girls. But perhaps we must regard the comparison as rather belonging to the supernatural portion of our description. Ewald would understand the hair on the legs, or on the bodies, of the locusts, to be meant, referring to יֶלֶק סָמָר , rough locusts, Jeremiah 51:27 , where the LXX have merely ἀκρίδων , and the E. V. “rough caterpillars.”
	To infer, from this feature, licentiousness as a characteristic in the interpretation, is entirely beside the purpose):  and their teeth were as the teeth of lions (so also of the locust in Joel 1:6 , οἱ ὀδόντες αὐτοῦ ὀδόντες λέοντος . Ewald rightly designates as very doubtful a fancied resemblance to a lion in the under jaw. We may observe that this, as some other features in the description, is purely graphic, and does not in any way apply to the plague to be inflicted by these mystic locusts),  and they had breastplates as iron breastplates (the plate which forms the thorax of the natural locust, was in their case as if of iron),  and the sound of their wings (  was )  as a sound of chariots of many horses (by the two genitives the sound of both, the chariots and the horses, is included. The chariots are regarded as an appendage to the horses)  as they run to war. And they have tails like to scorpions (i. e. to the tails of scorpions: the construction called the comparatio compendiaria: see reff.),  and stings (viz. in their tails: this is the particular especially in which the comparison finds its aptitude):  and in their tails is their power to hurt men five months (see above on Rev 9:5 ).  They have as king over them (or, “they have a king over them, viz.”.… the two accusatives being in apposition. It favours this last alternative, that in this particular, of having a king, they are distinguished from natural locusts: for Proverbs 30:27 , ἀβασίλευτόν ἐστιν ἡ ἀκρίς )  the angel of the abyss (we can hardly with Luther, render “an angel from the abyss:” ἄγγελος , though anarthrous, is necessarily defined by the genitive τῆς ἀβύσσου );  his name is in Hebrew Abaddon ( אֲבַדּוֹן ,  perdition , from אָבַד ,  periit , is used in the O. T. for the place of perdition, Orcus, in Job 26:6 ; Proverbs 27:20 (Keri: Chetib has אֲבֵדָה ), in both of which places it is joined with שְׁאֹל , Psalms 88:12 ; Job 28:22 . In all these places the LXX express it by ἀπώλεια . So that this is the local name personified: or rather perhaps that abstract name personified, from which the local import itself is derived),  and in the Greek (scil. γλώσσῃ )  he has for his name Apollyon (the name ἀπολλύων seems chosen from the LXX ἀπώλεια , see above.
	It is a question, who this angel of the abyss is. Perhaps, for accurate distinction’s sake, we must not identify him with Satan himself, cf. ch. Revelation 12:3 ; Revelation 12:9 , but must regard him as one of the principal of the bad angels).  The one (first)  woe hath passed: behold, there cometh (singular, the verb applying simply to that which is future, without reference as yet to its plurality)  two woes after these things .
	There is an endless Babel of allegorical and historical interpretation of these  locusts from the pit . The most that we can say of their import is, that they belong to a series of judgments on the ungodly which will immediately precede the second advent of our Lord: that the various and mysterious particulars of the vision will no doubt clear themselves up to the church of God, when the time of its fulfilment arrives: but that no such clearing up has yet taken place, a very few hours of research among histories of apocalyptic interpretation will serve to convince any reader who is not himself the servant of a preconceived system.