 1 12 .]  The fifth, or first Woe trumpet .  And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen (not, as E. V.  fall , which gives an entirely wrong view of the transactions of the vision. The star had fallen before, and is first seen as thus fallen)  out of heaven to the earth (the reader will at once think on Isaiah 14:12 , “How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!” And on Luke 10:18 , “I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.” And, doubtless, as the personal import of this star is made clear in the following words, such is the reference here. We may also notice that this expression forms a connecting link to another place, ch. Revelation 12:9 , in this book, where Satan is represented as cast out of heaven to the earth: see notes there. It is hardly possible with Andr [104] , Ribera, Bengel, and De W., to understand a  good angel by this fallen star. His description, as well as his work, corresponds only to an agent of evil. Andreas is obliged to distort words to bring in this view: ἐπὶ γῆν δὲ καταβάντα , τοῦτο γὰρ τὸ πεπτωκέναι σημαίνει , is enough to condemn any interpretation),  and there was given to him (  ἐδόθη , as usual, for the purpose of the part which he is to bear in the vision)  the key of the pit of the abyss (viz. of hell, which in the vision is a vast profundity opening by a pit or shaft upon the surface of the earth, imagined as shut down by a cover, and locked. This abyss is in the Apocalypse the habitation of the devil and his angels: cf. Revelation 9:11 , ch. Revelation 20:1 ; Revelation 20:3 ; see also ch. Revelation 11:7 , Rev 17:8 ),  and he opened the pit of the abyss, and there went up smoke from the pit as smoke of a great furnace (see ref. Gen.),  and the sun was darkened and the air (not, as Bengel, a hendiadys, “aer, quatenus per solem illuminatur:” for the sun may be obscured, as by a cloud, without the air being  darkened )  by reason of the smoke of the pit. And out of the smoke (which therefore was their vehicle or envelope)  came forth locusts into (towards, over, so as to spread over: εἰς gives more the sense of distribution than ἐπί would)  the earth, and there was given to them power as the scorpions of the earth ( τῆς γῆς , not as noting any distinction between land-scorpions and water-scorpions, as Ewald, but because the scorpions are natural and of the earth, whereas these locusts are infernal and not of nature)  have power (viz. to sting, as below explained):  and it was commanded them that they shall not hurt (for construction, see reff.)  the grass of the earth, nor yet every (i. e. any)  green thing, nor yet every (any)  tree (the usual objects on which locusts prey: cf. Exodus 10:13 ; Exo 10:15 ),  but only (lit.  except : the former sentence being regarded as if it had run, “that they should hurt nothing,” and then “  except ” follows naturally)  the men, the which ( οἵτινες designates the class or kind: see reff.)  have not the seal of God upon their foreheads (this, as before noticed, fixes this fifth trumpet to the time following the sealing in ch. 7. It denotes a plague which falls on the unbelieving inhabitants of the earth after the servants of God have been marked out among them, and of which the saints are not partakers. Either then it denotes something purely spiritual, some misery from which those are exempt who have peace with God, which can hardly be, consistently with Revelation 9:5-6 , or it takes place in a state totally different from this present one, in which the wheat and tares are mingled together. One or other of these considerations will at once dismiss by far the greater number of interpretations.
	 [104] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	That of Elliott, the fact of Mahomet’s mission being avowedly against corrupt Christianity as idolatry, does not in the remotest degree answer the conditions. In the very midst of this corrupt Christianity were at that time God’s elect scattered up and down: and it is surely too much to say that every such person escaped scathless from the Turkish sword).  And it was given to them (allotted to them by God as the limit of their appointed work and office: here the ἐδόθη expresses rather the limitation than the extension of the grant)  that they should not kill them (the unsealed),  but that they (the unsealed: the subject is changed)  shall be (fut. aft. ἵνα , see above, Rev 9:4 )  tormented five months (the reason seems to be correct, which several Commentators have given for this number being chosen: viz., that five months is the ordinary time in the year during which locusts commit their ravages: so Calov., Vitr., Eich., Ewald, De W., Düsterd., al. At all events we are thus in some measure delivered from the endless perplexities of capricious fancy in which the historical interpreters involve us):  and their torment (i. e. that of the sufferers: against Düsterd.)  is as the torment of (arising from: notice the same construction in two senses)  a scorpion, when it has smitten (  παίσῃ , the regular futurus exactus: “whenever it shall have …” παίω and πατάσσω (Jonah 4:7 . Achill. Tat. ii. 7, ἡ μέλιττα ἐπάταξε τὴν χεῖρα ), as in the Latin  ictus (Pliny, H. N. vi. 28), are used of the bite or sting of an animal)  a man. And in those days men shall seek death (observe the transition of the style from the descriptive to the prophetic. For the first time the Apostle ceases to be the exponent of what he saw, and becomes the direct organ of the Spirit),  and shall not (the οὐ μή , with a subjunctive (its ordinary construction), is a more certain and definite negation than even the future itself. The latter expresses fact; whereas the former states that the fact cannot be otherwise: οὐ μή with the future, as in text, seems to be a later and lax way of expressing the same)  find it: and they shall vehemently desire (  desire alone is not strong enough: ἐπιθυμέω , - ία , express the direction of the θῦμος (itself from θύω , ferveo ἀπὸ τῆς θύσεως καὶ ζέσεως τῆς ψυχῆς , Plato, Cratyl. 419 E) upon an object. As  desire is too strong for θέλω , so is it too weak for ἐπιθυμέω )  to die (notice what Düsterd. well calls “  ein schreckliches Gegenstuck ,” to the Apostle’s saying in Philippians 1:23 , ἐπιθυμίαν ἔχων εἰς τὸ ἀναλῦσαι καὶ σὺν χριστῷ εἶναι ),  and death fleeth (the pres., of the  habitual avoidance in those days)  from them (the longing to die arises from the excruciating pain of the sting. Cf. Jeremiah 8:3 .
	I cannot forbear noticing as we pass, the caprice of historical interpreters. On the command  not to kill the men, &c., in Revelation 9:5 , Elliott says, “i. e. not to annihilate them as a political Christian body.” If then the same rule of interpretation is to hold, the present verse must mean that the “political Christian body” will be so sorely beset by these Mahometan locusts, that it will vehemently desire to be annihilated, and not find any way. For it surely cannot be allowed that the  killing of men should be said of their annihilation as a political body in one verse, and their  desiring to die in the next should be said of something totally different, and applicable to their individual misery. Is it in consequence óf foreseeing this difficulty, that Mr. Elliott has, as in the case of many important details in other places, omitted all consideration of this verse?).