 7. ] This follows (connected by  γάρ ) upon Romans 3:6 , and shews that the supposition if carried out, would overthrow all God’s judgment, and ( Rom 3:8 ) the whole moral life of man.  How shall God judge the world ? FOR,  if the truth (faithfulness)  of God abounded (was manifested, more clearly established)  by means of my falsehood (unfaithfulness),  to His glory (so that the result has been the setting forth of His glory),  why any longer ( ἔτι , this being so, assuming the premises)  am I also (i.e. as well as others, am I to be involved in a judgment from which I ought to be exempt)  judged (to be judged, the pres. expressing the rule or habit of God’s proceeding)  as a sinner? And (why should we)  not (in this case rather say)  as we (I Paul, or we Christians)  are slanderously reported, and as some give out that we (do)  say ( ὅτι recitantis), “  Let us do evil that good may come?” whose condemnation (not that of our slanderers (Grot., Tholuck), but that of those who so say and act)  is according to justice (not only by the preceding argument, but by the common detestation of all men, for such a maxim as doing evil that good may come).
	The way adopted generally (Calv., Beza, Grot., Bengel, Wolf, Rückert, Köllner, Tholuck) is to connect Rom 3:7 by γάρ with Romans 3:5 , and to regard κατὰ ἄνθρ .… κόσμον as a series of parentheses; but I very much prefer that given above, which, in the main, is De Wette’s. Fritzsche and Schrader strangely enough regard κἀγώ as bona fide the individual Paul, and κρίνομαι as the judgment passed by his adversaries (“nam si Dei veracitas meo peccatoris mendacio abunde in Dei laudem cessit, cur adhuc ego quoque, Paulus, tanquam facinorosus ab hominibus reus agor,” &c.): Reiche, Olsh., &c. put Rom 3:7 into the mouth of a  Gentile : Bengel, into that of a  Jew . Doubtless the main reference of this part of the argument is to Jews: but the reasoning from the introduction of the words τὸν κόσμον (see above) is  general , applying both to Jew and Gentile, and shewing the untenableness of  any such view as that of the Jewish objection of Romans 3:5 .