 25. ]  προέθετο , not here ‘  decreed ,’ as in reff. N. T., but  put forth, set forth , manifested historically in His incarnation, sufferings, and exaltation. Wetst. quotes Thucyd. ii. 34, τὰ ὀστᾶ προτίθενται τῶν ἀπογενομένων , ‘they expose the bones of the deceased to public view.’
	 ἱλαστήριον ]  as a propitiatory offering . So we have σωτήρια , Exodus 20:24 , χαριστήριον ( εὐχαριστήριον Α), 2Ma 12:45 , and καθάρσιον , Herod. i. 35, in the sense of thank-offerings and offerings of purification (no subst., as θῦμα , need be supplied, the words being themselves substantives): and we have this very word in Dio Chrysos. Orat. ii. p. 184 (cited by Stuart), where he says that the Greeks offered an ἱλαστήριον τῇ Ἀθήνᾳ , a propitiatory sacrifice. The ordinary interpretation (Theodoret, Theophyl., Luth., Calv., Grot., Calov., Wolf, Olsh.) is founded on the sense in which the LXX use the word, as signifying the golden cover of the ark of the covenant, between the Cherubim, where Jehovah appeared and whence He gave His oracles. τὸ ἱλαστήριον πέταλον ἦν χρυσοῦν , ἐπέκειτο δὲ τῷ κιβωτῷ . ἑκατέρωθεν δὲ εἶχε τὰ τῶν χερουβὶμ ἐκτυπώματα . ἐκεῖθεν τῷ ἀρχιερεῖ λειτουργοῦντι ἐγίνετο δήλη τοῦ θεοῦ ἡ εὐμένεια .… τὸ ἀληθινὸν ἱλαστήριον ὁ δεσπότης ἐστὶ χριστός · ἐκεῖνο δὲ τὸ παλαιὸν τούτου τὸν τύπον ἐπλήρου . ἁρμόττει δὲ αὐτῷ ὡς ἀνθρώπῳ τὸ ὄνομα , οὐχ ὡς θεῷ · ὡς γὰρ θεός , αὐτὸς διὰ τοῦ ἱλαστηρίου χρηματίζει . Theodoret: on which Theophylact further, ἐδήλου δὲ πάντως τὴν ἀνθρωπίνην φύσιν , ἥτις πῶμα ἦν τῆς θεότητος , ἐπικαλύπτουσα ταύτην . The expression occurs in full, ἱλαστήριον ἐπίθεμα , Exodus 25:17 ; elsewhere ἱλαστήριον only, as ref. Heb. See also Philo, Vita Mos. iii. 8, vol. ii. p. 150. But De Wette well shews the inapplicability of this interpretation, as not agreeing with εἰς ἔνδειξιν κ . τ . λ . (which requires a  victim , see below), and as confusing the unity of the idea here, Christ being (according to it) one while a victim ( ἐν τῷ αὐτοῦ αἵματι ), and another, something else. The other interpretation (Vulg.  propitiationem : so E. V.: Beza, Rückert, al.: adj. Rosenmüller, Wahl), which makes ἱλαστήριον an adj. agreeing with ὅν , ‘  a propitiator ,’ hardly agrees with προέθετο , implying an external demonstration of Christ as the ἱλαστήριον , not merely an appointment in the divine œconomy.
	 διὰ πίστεως ]  by faith , as the subjective means of appropriation of this propitiation: not to be joined with ἐν αὐτοῦ αἵματι (but the omission of τῆς is no objection to this, see above on Rom 3:22 ), as Luth., Calv. al., Olsh., Rückert, for such an expression as πίστις or πιστεύω ἐν τῷ αἵμ . Ἰ . χρ . would be unexampled, and (which is decisive) the clause ἐν τῷ αὐτοῦ αἵματι requires a primary, not a subordinate place in the sentence, because the next clause, εἰς ἔνδ . τ . δικ . αὐτ ., directly refers to it. As διὰ πίστ . is the subjective means of appropriation, so ἐν τῷ αἵμ . αὐτοῦ is the objective means of manifestation, of Christ as a propitiatory sacrifice.  αἷμα does not = θάνατος , but refers to propitiation  by blood , the well-known typical use of it in sacrifice.
	 εἰς ἔνδειξιν κ . τ . λ .]  in order to the manifestation of His righteousness : this is the aim of the putting forth of Christ as an expiatory victim.
	 δικαιοσύνη , not  truth (Ambrst [16] , al.), not  goodness (Theodoret, Grot., Hammond, Koppe, Rosenm., Reiche), not both these combined with  justice (Beza), not  justifying or  sin-forgiving righteousness (Chrys., Aug [17] , Estius, Krehl, B.-Crus.), not the  righteousness which He gives (Luther, Elsner, Wolf, al.), which last would repeat the idea already contained in Rom 3:21 and rob εἰς τὸ εἶναι αὐτ . δίκαιον of all meaning, not  holiness , which does not correspond to δίκαιος and δικαιοῦν , but  judicial righteousness , JUSTICE (as Orig [18] , Calov., Tholuck, Meyer, Schrader, Rückert Exodus 2:0 , al.). This interpretation alone suits the requirements of the sense, and corresponds to the idea of δικαιοῦν , which is itself judicial. A  sin-offering betokens on the one side the expiation of guilt, and on the other ensures pardon and reconciliation: and thus the Death of Christ is not only a proof of God’s grace and love, but also of His judicial righteousness which requires punishment and expiation. (Mainly from De Wette.)
	 [16] Ambr  osia st  er , i.e.  Hilary the Deacon , fl. 384
	 [17]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [18] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 διὰ τ  .   πάρεσιν κ . τ . λ .] = διὰ τὸ παριέναι τὸν θεὸν τὰ προγ . ἁμαρτήματα ἐν τῇ ἀνοχῇ αὐτοῦ , and contains the  reason why God would manifest His judicial righteousness;  on account of the overlooking of the sins which had passed, in the forbearance of God : i.e. to vindicate that character for justice, which might seem, owing to the suspension of God’s righteous sentence on sin in former ages in His forbearance, to be placed in question: to shew, that though He did not then fully punish for sin, and though He did then set forth inadequate means of (subjective) justification, yet He did both, not because His justice was slumbering, nor because the nature of His righteousness was altered, but because  He had provided a way whereby sin might be forgiven, and He might be just. Observe, πάρεσις  is not forgiveness [nor “  remission ,” as E. V. erroneously renders it], but [  passing over , or]  overlooking , which is the work of  forbearance (see Act 17:30 ), whereas  forgiveness is the work of  grace , see ch. Romans 2:4 : nor is τῶν προγεγ . ἁμ ., ‘the sins of each man which precede his conversion ‘(Calov.), but  those of the whole world before the death of Christ . See the very similar words Hebrews 9:15 .
	The rendering διὰ , ‘  by means of ’ (Origen, Luth., Calv., Calov., Le Clerc, Elsn., Koppe, Reiche, Schrader), is both ungrammatical and unmeaning.