 9. ]  τί οὖν cannot be joined with προεχόμεθα (Œc [12] , &c.), because οὐδέν would then have been the answer.
	 [12] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	There is considerable difficulty in  προεχόμεθα . The meaning of προέχομαι every where else is  passive , ‘to be surpassed,’ and προέχω , act., is to surpass, or have the pre-eminence. So Plut. p. 1038 D (Wetst.), κατ ʼ οὐδὲν προεχομένοις ὑπὸ τοῦ Διός , ‘cum Jove minores non sint:’ and Herod, i. 32, ὁ μὲν δὴ μέγα πλούσιος ἀνόλβιος δέ , δυοῖσι προέχει τοῦ εὐτυχοῦς μόνον , &c. (see Wetst.) Those therefore who have wished to preserve the usage of the word, have variously interpreted it in that attempt: ( α ) Wetst. would render it passively, and understand it (as spoken by a Jew) ‘  Are we surpassed by the Gentiles ?’ But (1) for this inference there is no ground in what went before, but the contrary (Romans 3:1 ff.), and (2) the question if it mean this, is not dealt with in what follows. ( β ) Œcum. (2nd altern.) regards it as said by a Gentile, ‘  Are we surpassed by the Jews ?’ but for this question there is no ground in the preceding, for all has tended to lower the Jews in comparison and reduce all to one level. ( γ ) Reiche and Olsh. take it passively, and render, ‘  Are we preferred (  by God )?’ but no example of this meaning occurs, the above use in Plutarch not justifying it. ( δ ) Koppe and Wahl render, taking it as the middle voice, ‘  What can we then allege (  as an excuse )?’ but this will not suit οὐ πάντως . ( ε ) Meyer, ‘  What then, have we an excuse ?’ but προεχόμ . has not this meaning. ( ζ ) Fritzsche, ‘  What then? do we excuse ourselves (i.e. shall we make any excuse)?’ But (1) προεχ .  is put absolutely ; and (2) the answer would rather be μηδαμῶς than οὐ πάντως , which replies to a question on  matter of fact . Besides (3) the argument would then go to shew, not that all are  sinners, as it does , Romans 3:10-20 , but that all are liable to God’s wrath,  without excuse , ( η ) The only way left seems (with Theophyl., Œc [13] (1st altern.), Schol. in Matthaï, Pelag., Vulg., Erasm., Luther, Calv., Beza, Grot., Bengel, Tholuck, Köllner, Schrader, De Wette, al.) to take προεχόμεθα as middle, and understand it as προέχομεν  Have we (Jews)  the (any)  preference ? We have an use of παρέχομαι as active, Acts 19:24 , Titus 2:7 . See also Winer, edn. 6, § 38.  5.
	 [13] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 οὐ πάντως ]  No, by no means . This would more naturally be πάντως οὐ , see reff. But we have οὐδὲν πάντως for ‘not at all,’ Herod. v. 34. The meaning ‘not in every way,’ ‘not altogether,’ as 1Co 5:10 and Theophr. de Caus. Plant. vi.24(Wetst.), ποιεῖ γὰρ οὐ πάντως , ἀλλ ʼ ἐὰν οὐλή τις ᾖ ὑπόκαυστος , will not apply, for it does not agree with what follows, where the Apostle proves  absolute equality in respect of his argument.
	 προῃτ  .…   εἶναι ]  we have before proved (chs. 1. 2.)  both Jews and Gentiles all to be under sin ; the construction is not acc. and inf.,  that Jews and Gentiles  are under sin, but Ἰουδ .… πάντας is acc. after the verb, and ὑφ ʼ ἁμ . εἶναι the matter of the charge, q. d. ‘we have before brought in guilty Jews and Gentiles all as sinners.’