 20. ]  The solemn and important conclusion of all the foregoing argument . But not only the  conclusion from it : it is also the great truth, which when arrived at, is seen to have necessitated the subordinate conclusion of Romans 3:19 , the stopping of every mouth, &c. And therefore it is introduced, not with an illative conjunction, ‘  wherefore ’ (which διότι will not bear), but with ‘  because .’  Because by the works of the law (GOD’S LAW: whether in the partial revelation of it written in the consciences of the Gentiles, or in the more complete one given by Moses to the Jews, not,  by works of law : no such general idea of  law seems to have ever been before the mind of the Apostle, but always  the law , emanating from God)  shall no flesh be justified before Him (the future as implying possibility, perhaps also as referring to the great day when πᾶσα σάρξ shall stand before God, perhaps also as a citation from ref. Ps. LXX, οὐ δικαιωθήσεται ἐνώπιόν σου πᾶς ζῶν . οὐ .… πᾶσα , which we render by  nulla , must be kept in the mind to its logical precision:  All flesh subject  shall be copula  not justified predicate).
	The Apostle does not  here say either (1) that justification by legal works would be impossible if the law could be wholly kept, or (2) that those were not justified who observed the prescribed sacrifices and offerings of the  ceremonial law (of which he has never once spoken, but wholly of the moral): but he infers from his argument on  matters of fact , a result in  matter of fact: ‘Mankind, Jew and Gentile, have all broken God’s law, and are guilty before Him: Man keeps not God’s law. By that law then he cannot arrive at God’s righteousness .’
	 διὰ γὰρ  .… ]  For by [means of] the law (as before, whether partially known to the Gentile or more fully to the Jew)  is the knowledge of sin (whatever knowledge each has, whether the accusing and excusing of the Gentile’s conscience, or the clearer view of offence against Jehovah granted to the Jew).
	The reasoning is: the law has no such office, in the present state of human nature manifested both in history and Scripture, as to  render righteous : its office is altogether different, viz. to  detect and bring to light the sinfulness of man. Compare Galatians 2:16 .