Centurion [εκατονταρχου] . From ekaton, a hundred, and arcw, to command. Commander of a hundred men. Mark uses kenturiwn, a Graecized form of the Latin word centurio. A centuria was originally a division consisting of a hundred things of a kind; and thence came to mean any division, whether consisting of a hundred or not. In military language it meant a division of troops, a company, not necessarily of a hundred, the caption of which was called centurio. The numbers of a century varied from about fifty to a hundred. The Roman legion consisted of ten cohorts or speirai, bands, as "the Italian band," of which Cornelius was a centurion (Acts 10:1). The commanders of these cohorts were called chiliarchs, or chief captains (John 18:12, Rev.). Each cohort contained six centuries, or companies, of which the commanders were called centurions. The duty of the centurion was chiefly confined to the regulation of his own corps, and the care of the watch. The badge of his office was the vitis, or vine - stock. He wore a short tunic, and was also known by letters on the crest of his helmet. Dean Howson (" Companions of St. Paul ") remarks on the favorable impression left upon the mind by the officers of the Roman army mentioned in the New Testament, and cites, besides the centurion in this passage, the one at the cross, and Julius, who escorted Paul to Rome. See, further, on Acts 10:1. Servant [δουλος] . A bond - servant. Matthew has paiv, a servant, which occurs also at ver. 7. Dear [εντιμος] . Lit., held in honor or value. It does not necessarily imply an affectionate relation between the master and the servant, though such may well have existed. It may mean only that he was a valuable servant. See on 1 Peter 2:4. In this case Luke omits the mention of the disease, which is given by Matthew. Beseeching [ερωτων] . Too strong. Better asking, as Rev. The word to beseech [παρακαλεω] occurs in the next verse. See on Matthew 14:23. Heal [διασωση] . Better as Rev., save. See on ch. Luke 6:19.