Verse Acts 13:10. O full of all subtilty — δολου, Deceit, pretending to supernatural powers without possessing any, and having only cunning and deceit as their substitutes.And-mischief — ραδιουργιας, from ραδιος, easy, and εργον, a work; one who is ready at his work; a word which excellently well defines a juggler, one who is expert at sleight of hand; though it is often employed to signify an abandoned and accomplished villain.Child of the devil — υιε διαβολου, Son of the devil, possessing his nature; filled with his cunning; and, in consequence, practising deceit.Enemy of all righteousness — εχθρεπασης δικαιοσυνης; Opposed in thy heart to all that is just, true, and good.Wilt thou not cease to pervert, c.] ου παυση διαστρεφων. Wilt thou not cease perverting? He had probably laboured in this bad work from the beginning of Paul's ministry in the place and God in his mercy had borne with him; and no doubt the apostle had warned him, for thus much seems implied in the reproof. What a terrible character is given of this bad man! He no doubt passed among the people for what we call a clever fellow; and he was so clever as to hide himself under a pretty dense mask; but God, who searches the heart, plucked it off, and tells him, and those who were perverted by him, what an accomplished deceiver and knave he was.The right ways of the Lord — τας οδους κυριου τας ευθειας, The ways of the Lord, the straight ways. This saying is very emphatical. The ways of Elymas were crooked and perverse; the ways of the Lord, the doctrine taught by him, plain and straight. What is here said of the conduct and teaching of Elymas, for he was a false prophet, is true of all false doctrine: it is complex, devious, and tortuous: while the doctrine of God is simple, plain, and straight; directing in the way, the sure way, that leads to present peace and everlasting happiness. From the phraseology which the apostle employs in this terrible address to Elymas, we may learn, as well as from his name Bar-Jesus, that he was by birth and education a Jew. On this account he was the greater enemy to Christianity; and on this same account he was the less excusable.