 22, 23.   ὁ λύχνος ] as lighting and guiding the body and its members: not as containing light in itself. Similarly the inner light, the conscience, lights the spirit and its faculties, but by light supernal to itself.
	 ἁπλοῦς  , clear, untroubled in vision, as the eye which presents a well-defined and single image to the brain.  πονηρός  , perverse, as the eye which dims and distorts the visual images.  φωτεινὸς  …   σκοτεινός  :  in full light , as an object in the bright sunshine;  in darkness , as an object in the deep shade. The comparison is found in Aristotle. Topic, i. 14 (Wets [81] .), ὡς ὄψις ἐν ὀφθαλμῷ , νοῦς ἐν ψυχῇ : in Galen, and Philo de Mund. Opif.
	 [81] Wetstein.
	 εἰ οὖν κ . τ . λ .]  If then the LIGHT  which is in thee is darkness, how dark must the DARKNESS  be! i.e. ‘if the  conscience , the eye and  light of the soul, be  darkened , in  how much grosser darkness will all the  passions and faculties be, which are of themselves  naturally dark! ’ The opposition is between  τὸ φῶς and  τὸ σκότος  . This interpretation is borne out by the Vulgate: ‘Ipsæ tenebræ quantæ erunt!’ by Jerome: ‘Si sensus, qui lumen est, animæ vitio caligatur, ipsa putas caligo quantis tenebris obvolvetur!’ and by Chrysostom: ὅταν γὰρ ὁ κυβερνήτης ὑποβρόχιος γένηται , καὶ ὁ λύχνος σβεσθῇ καὶ ὁ ἡγεμὼν αἰχμάλωτος γένηται , ποία λοιπὸν ἔσται τοῖς ὑπηκόοις ἐλπίς : Hom. xx. 3, p. 264, and Euthymius: εἰ οὖν τὸ φῶς τὸ ἐν σοί , ὅ ἐστιν ὁ νοῦς , ὁ δωρηθεὶς εἰς τὸ φωτίζειν καὶ ὁδηγεῖν τὴν ψυχήν , σκότος ἐστί , τουτέστιν ἐσκότισται , λοιπὸν τὸ σκότος , τὸ ἀπὸ τῶν παθῶν , πόσον ἔσται , εἰς τὸ σκοτίζειν τὴν ψυχήν , σκοτισθέντος τοῦ ἀνατέλλοντος αὐτῇ φωτός . Augustine (de Serm. Dom. ii. c. 13 (46), vol. iii.) renders it similarly, but understands σκότος to refer to a different thing: ‘Si ipsa cordis intentio, qua facis quod facis, quæ tibi nota est, sordidatur appetitu rerum terrenarum … atque cæcatur: quanto magis ipsum factum, cujus incertus est exitus, sordidum et tenebrosum est!’ So too the Sy [82] . æt [83] . versions; and Erasm.: “Si ratio excæcata id judicat imprimis esse expetendum, quod vel contemnendum, vel neglectui habendum, in quas tenebras totum hominem rapiet ambitio reliquæque animi perturbationes, quæ suapte natura caliginem habent!” Bucer, Luther. Stier expands this well, Reden Jesu, i. 208, edn. 2, “As the body, of itself a dark mass, has its light from the eye, so we have here compared to it the sensuous, bestial life ( ψυχικόν ) of men, their appetites, desires, and aversions, which belong to the lower creature. This dark region human nature under the gross dominion of the flesh shall become spiritualized, enlightened, sanctified, by the spiritual light: but if  this light be darkness, how great must then the darkness of the  sensuous life be!” The usual modern interpretation makes τὸ σκότος πόσον a mere expression of the greatness of the darkness thereby occasioned, and thus loses the force of the sentence.
	 [82] The Peschito (or simple) Syriac version. Supposed to have been made as early as the  second century . The text as edited is in a most unsatisfactory state.
	 [83] The Æthiopic version. Assigned to the  fourth century .