 2.   μὴ σαλπίσῃς ] A proverbial expression, not implying any such custom of the hypocrites of that day, but the habit of self-laudation, and display of good works in general. οὐχ ὅτι σάλπιγγας εἶχον ἐκεῖνοι , ἀλλὰ τὴν πολλὴν αὐτῶν ἐπιδεῖξαι βούλεται μανίαν τῇ λέξει τῆς μεταφορᾶς ταύτης , κωμῳδῶν ταύτῃ καὶ ἐκπομπεύων αὐτούς . Chrys. Hom, xix. 1, p. 245. Meyer remarks that the word σαλπίσῃς is  tuba canas , not  tuba cani cures , and must therefore refer to what the person  himself does: but all verbs of action may surely refer to action  per alterum , so that this does not decide the point. Many Commentators, among whom are Calvin and Bengel, think that the words are to be taken literally; and Euthym [53] mentions this view: φασὶ δέ τινες ὅτι ὑποκριταὶ τότε διὰ σάλπιγγος συνεκάλουν τοὺς δεομένους . But Lightfoot says, “Non inveni, quæsiverim licet multum serioque, vel minimum tubæ vestigium in præstandis eleemosynis.” See his note, containing an account of the practices of the Jews in giving alms; and many illustrative passages in Tholuck; among which may be mentioned Cic. ad diversos xvi. 21, ‘te buccinatorem fore existimationis meæ.’
	 [53] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	For the classical senses of  ὑποκριτής  , see Lexx. The N.T. sense, connected with that of “actor,” is unknown to classic Greek, and first found in the LXX. See reff.
	 ἔμπρ  .   σου ] According to the way in which the former verse is taken, these words are variously understood to apply to the trumpet being  held up before the mouth in blowing (as Meyer), or to  another person going before (Thol., a [54] .).
	 [54] alii = some cursive mss.
	 συναγωγαῖς can hardly bear any sense but  synagogues, see Matthew 6:5 : and if so, the literal meaning of σαλπίσῃς cannot well be maintained. The synagogues, as afterwards the Christian churches, were the regular places for the collection of alms: see Tholuck and Vitringa de Synag. vet. iii. 1. 13.
	 ἀπέχουσιν ]  have in full, exhaust: not  have their  due reward: see reff. Plutarch in Solon (Wets [55] .) says, that he who marries for pleasure, and not for children, τὸν μισθὸν ἀπέχει .
	 [55] Wetstein.