 11.  τὸν ἄρτ  . κ . τ . λ .]  ἡμῶν as ‘  created for us ,’ ‘provided for our use by Thee:’ τὸν δι ʼ ἡυᾶς γενόμενον , Euthym [65] The word  ἐπιούσιον has been very variously explained. Origen says of it, πρῶτον δὲ τοῦτ ʼ ἰστέον , ὅτι ἡ λέξις ἡ ἐπιούσιος παρ ʼ οὐδενὶ τῶν Ἑλλήνων οὔτε τῶν σοφῶν ὠνόμασται , οὔτε ἐν τῇ τῶν ἰδιωτῶν συνηθείᾳ τέτριπται , ἀλλ ʼ ἔοικε πεπλάσθαι ὑπὸ τῶν εὐαγγελιστῶν . The derivations and meanings given may be thus classified (after Tholuck). I.  ἐπί  ,   εἶναι  : and that, either (1) from the  participle , as παρουσία , μετουσία , περιουσία , or (2) from the  subst.  οὐσία  . Against  both , an objection is brought that thus it would be ἐπούς ., not ἐπιούς .; but this is not decisive; we have ἔποπτος and ἐπίοπτος , ἐπιανδάνω , ἐπίουρα , &c. Against (2) it is alleged that adjectives from substantives in - α and - ια end in - αιος or - ώδης , ὡραῖος , ἀγοραῖος , βίαιος , and from οὐσία not οὔσιος but οὐσιώδης : συνούσιος , περιούσιος , not being from οὐσία but from the fem. particip. But this is not always so: we have πολυγώνιος from γωνία , ὑπεξούσιος from ἐξουσία , and ἐνούσιος and ἐξούσιος from οὐσία : while περιούσιος itself is derived by some from οὐσία . II.  ἐπί  ,   ἰέναι  : and that, either (1) from the fem. part. ἡ ἐπιοῦσα , understanding ἡμέρα , or (2) from ὁ ἐπιών , understanding χρόνος . (1) has much apparently in its favour. In the N.T., LXX, and Josephus, ἡ παροῦσα , ἡ προσιοῦσα , and this expression itself are often found in this elliptic sense. Jerome found for this word, in the Gospel according to the Hebrews, “mahar ( מָחָר ) quod dicitur crastinus.” (So also  crastinum cop [66] .) The objection brought against it (Salmas. Suicer), that, viz., from the analogy of δευτεραῖος , τριταῖος , ποσταῖος , &c. does not seem valid to disprove the existence of the more general possessive adj. in - ιος . But the great objection to this derivation is in the  sense: which would then be in direct opposition to Matthew 6:34 . Nor does it answer this to say, that by making to-morrow’s bread the subject of prayer we divest ourselves of anxiety respecting it; since our Lord’s command is not to feel that anxiety at all. The same objection will apply to (2) ὁ ἐπιὼν χρόνος , or to giving (as Grot. a [67] .) a wider sense to ἡ ἐπιοῦσα , as meaning  all future time , according to the Hebr. usage of מָחָר . (Cf.  venturum or  venientem sa [68] .) Nor will σήμερον bear the Hebraistic interpretation of ‘from day to day,’ יוֹם יוֹם . Add to this that independently of the discrepancy with Matthew 6:34 , Salmasius’s objection to this sense, ‘quid est ineptius, quam panem crastini diei (and we may say à fortiori ‘omnis futuri temporis’) nobis quotidie postulare?’ seems to me unanswerable. Returning then to the derivation from εἶναι , which has in its favour the authority of the Greek fathers, especially of Origen, and of the Peschito (  indigentiæ nostræ ), Tholuck thinks it most probable that it is formed after the analogy of περιούσιος , from the substantive οὐσία . The substantive signifies not merely  existence (as alleged in the 1st edn. of this work), but also  subsistence , compare Luke 15:12 , where τὸ ἐπιβάλλον μέρος τῆς οὐσίας is a curious illustration of this word. And even were οὐσία  existence only, it would still be open for us to take the meaning of the Greek fathers, ὁ ἐπὶ τῇ οὐσίᾳ ἡμῶν κ . συστάσει τῆς ζωῆς συμβαλλόμενος , Theophylact: similarly Chr [69] , Basil, Greg [70] Nyss [71] , and Suidas, and the Etym. Mag. Thus ἐπιούσιος will be  required for our subsistence proper for our sustenance, after the analogy of ἐπίγαμος , ‘fit for marriage,’ ἐπιδόρπιος , ‘proper for the banquet,’ &c. So that ὁ ἄρτος ὁ ἐπιούσιος will be equivalent to St. James’s τὰ ἐπιτήδεια τοῦ σώματος ( Mat 2:16 ), and the expressions are rendered in Sy [72] . by the same word. Thus only, σήμερον has its proper meaning. The τὸ καθ ʼ ἡμέραν in Luk 11:3 is different; see there.
	 [65] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [66] The Coptic or Memphitic Egyptian version.  Fourth century?
	 [67] alii = some cursive mss.
	 [68] The Thebaic or Sahidic Egyptian version.  Third century?
	 [69] Chrysostom, Bp. of Constantinople, 397 407: Chr-montf, a MS. cited from Montfaucon; Chr-wlf, Wolfenbüttel MS. of Chr. written in cent y . vi.; Chr-Fd, Field’s edn. of the Hom. on Mat 6:1-34
	 [70]  Gregory, Bp. of Rome , 590 605
	 [71] Nyssa, Gregory, Bp. of, 371
	 [72] The Peschito (or simple) Syriac version. Supposed to have been made as early as the  second century . The text as edited is in a most unsatisfactory state.
	It yet remains to enquire how far the expression may be understood  spiritually of the Bread of Life. The answer is easy: viz. that we may safely thus understand it, provided we keep in the foreground its primary physical meaning, and view the other as involved by implication in that. To explain ἐπιούσιος (as Orig [73] Cyr.-jer [74] ), ὁ ἐπὶ τὴν οὐσίαν τῆς ψυχῆς κατατασσόμενος , and understand the expression of the Eucharist  primarily , or even of spiritual feeding on Christ, is to miss the plain reference of the petition to our daily physical wants. But not to recognize those spiritual senses, is equally to miss the great truth, that the ἡμεῖς whose bread is prayed for, are not  mere animals, but composed of body, soul, and spirit, all of which want daily nourishment by Him from whom all blessings flow. See the whole subject treated in Tholuck (pp. 353 371): from whom much of this note is taken. Augustine well says (Serm. lviii. 4 (5), vol. v. pt. 1): ‘Quicquid animæ nostræ et carni nostræ in hac vita necessarium est, quotidiano pane concluditur.’ The Vulg. rendering,  supersubstantialem (substituted for the old lat.  quotidianum ), tallies with a large class of patristic interpretations which understand the word to point exclusively to the spiritual food of the Word and Sacraments.
	 [73] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [74]-jer. Cyril, Bp. of Jerusalem, 348 386