 13. ] The sentiment is not in any way inconsistent with the Christian’s joy when he πειρασμοῖς περιπέσῃ ποικίλοις , James 1:2 , but is a humble self-distrust and shrinking from such trial in the prospect. As Euthym [75] says: παιδεύει ἡμᾶς ὁ λόγος μὴ θαῤῥεῖν ἑαυτοῖς , μηδ ʼ ἐπιπηδᾷν τοῖς πειρασμοῖς ὑπὸ θαῤῥότητος … μὴ ἐπαγομένων μὲν τῶν πειρασμῶν παραιτητέον αὐτούς · ἐπαγομένων δὲ ἀνδριστέον . The  leading into temptation must be understood in its plain literal sense: see ποιήσει σὺν τῷ πειρασμῷ καὶ τὴν ἔκβασιν , 1 Corinthians 10:13 . There is no discrepancy with James 1:13 , which speaks not of the providential bringing about of, but the actual solicitation of, the temptation. Some (e.g. Isid. Pelus [76] on ch. xxvi. 41, Thl. on Luke 22:46 , Aug [77] , Bengel, a [78] .) have attempted to fix on εἰσενέγκῃς and εἰσελθεῖν εἰς πειρ . the meaning of  bringing into the power of , and  entering into, so as to be overcome by , temptation. But this surely the words will not bear.  ἀλλά must not be taken as equivalent to εἰ δὲ μή , q. d. ‘  but if thou dost, deliver ,’ &c., but is rather the opposition to the former clause, and forms in this sense, but one petition with it, ‘  bring us not into conflict with evil, nay rather deliver (rid)  us from it altogether .’ In another view, however, as expressing the deep desire of all Christian hearts to be delivered from  all evil (for τοῦ πονηροῦ is here certainly neuter, though taken masculine by Chrys., Thl., Erasm., Beza, a [79] .; the introduction of the mention of ‘the evil one’ would seem here to be incongruous. Besides, compare the words of St. Paul, 2 Timothy 4:18 , which look very like a reminiscence of this prayer: see note there) these words form a seventh and most affecting petition, reaching far beyond the last. They are the expression of the yearning for redemption of the sons of God ( Rom 8:23 ), and so are fitly placed at the end of the prayer, and as the sum and substance of the personal petitions. So Augustine very beautifully says (Ep. cxxx. c. 11 (21), vol. ii.): “Cum dicimus  libera nos a malo , nos admonemus cogitare, nondum nos esse in eo bono, ubi nullum patiemur malum. Et hoc quidem ultimum quod in dominica oratione positum est, tam late patet, ut homo Christianus in qualibet tribulatione constitutus in hoc gemitus edat, in hoc lacrymas fundat, hinc exordiatur, in hoc immoretur, ad hoc terminet orationem.”
	 [75] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [76] Pelus. Isidore of Pelusium, 412
	 [77]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [78] alii = some cursive mss.
	 [79] alii = some cursive mss.
	The  doxology must on every ground of sound criticism be omitted. Had it formed part of the original text, it is absolutely inconceivable that all the ancient authorities should with one consent have omitted it. They could have had no reason for doing so; whereas the habit of terminating liturgical prayers with ascriptions of praise would naturally suggest some such ending, and make its insertion almost certain in course of time. And just correspondent to this is the evidence in the var. readd. We find  absolutely no trace of it in early times , in any family of MSS. or in any expositors. The Peschito  has it, but whether it  always had , is another question. Stier eloquently defends its insertion, but  solely on subjective grounds: maintaining that the prayer is incomplete without it, and asserting the right of such “  innere Kritit ” to over-ride all evidence whatever. It is evident that thus we should have no fixed principles at all by which to determine the sacred text: for what seems to one critic appropriate and necessary, is in the view of another an incongruous addition. It is quite open for us to regard it with Euthymius as τὸ παρὰ τῶν θείων φωστήρων κ . τ . ἐκκλησίας καθηγητῶν προστεθὲν ἀκροτελεύτιον ἐπιφώνημα , and to retain it as such in our liturgies; but in dealing with the sacred text we must not allow any à priori considerations, of which we are such poor judges, to outweigh the almost unanimous testimony of antiquity. The inference to be drawn from the words of St. Paul, 2 Timothy 4:18 , is rather against than for the genuineness of the doxology. The fact that he there adds a doxology, different from that commonly read here, seems to testify to the practice, begun thus early, of concluding the Lord’s prayer with a solemn ascription of glory to God. This eventually fell into one conventional form, and thus got inserted in the sacred text.