 9. ] There is very slender proof of what is often asserted, that our Lord took nearly the whole of this prayer from existing Jewish formulæ. Not that such a view of the matter would contain in it any thing irreverent or objectionable; for if pious Jews had framed such petitions, our Lord, who came πληρῶσαι every thing that was good under the Old Covenant, might in a higher sense and spiritual meaning, have recommended the same forms to His disciples. But such does not appear to have been the fact. Lightfoot produces only the most general common-place parallels for the petitions, from the Rabbinical books.
	With regard to the prayer itself we may remark, 1. The whole passage, Matthew 6:7-15 , is digressive from the subject of the first part of this chapter, which is the discouragement of the performance of religious duties to be seen of men, and is resumed at Matthew 6:16 . Neander (Leben Jesu, p. 349, note) therefore supposes that this passage has found its way in here as a sort of accompaniment to the preceding verses, but is in reality the answer of our Lord to the request in Luke 11:1 , more fully detailed than by that Evangelist. But to this I cannot assent, believing our Lord’s discourses as given by this Evangelist to be no collections of scattered sayings, but veritable reports of continuous utterances. That the request related in Luke should afterwards have been made, and similarly answered, is by no means improbable. (That he should have thus related it  with this Gospel before him , is more than improbable.) 2. It has been questioned whether the prayer was regarded in the very earliest times as a set form delivered for liturgical use by our Lord. The variations in Luke have been regarded as fatal to the supposition of its being used liturgically at the time when these Gospels were written. But see notes on Luke 11:1 . It must be confessed, that we find very few traces of such use in early times. Thol. remarks, “It does not occur in the Acts, nor in any writers before the third century. In Justin Mart. we find, that the προεστώς prays ‘according to his power’ (Apol. i. 67, p. 83, ὁ πρ . εὐχὰς ὁμοίως κ . εὐχαριστίας ὅση δύναμις αὐτῷ ἀναπέμπει ).… Cyprian and Tert [60] make the first mention of the prayer as an ‘oratio legitima et ordinaria.’ ” An allusion to it has been supposed to exist in 2 Timothy 4:18 , where see note. 3. The view of some that our Lord gave this, selecting it out of forms known and in use, as a prayer  ad interim, till the effusion of the Spirit of prayer , is inadmissible, as we have no traces of any such temporary purpose in our Saviour’s discourses, and to suppose any such would amount to nothing less than to set them entirely aside. On the contrary, one work of the Holy Spirit on the disciples was, to  bring to their mind all things whatsoever He had said unto them , the depth of such sayings only then first being revealed to them by Him who  took of the things of Christ and shewed them to them . John 14:26 .
	 [60]  Tertullian , 200
	 οὕτως ] παραδίδωσι τύπον εὐχῆς , οὐχ ἵνα ταύτην μόνην τὴν εὐχὴν εὐχώμεθα , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα ταύτην ἔχοντες πηγὴν εὐχῆς ἐκ ταύτης ἀρυώμεθα τὰς ἐννοίας τῶν εὐχῶν . Euthym [61] Considering that other manners of praying have been spoken of above, the βατταλογία and the πολυλογία , the οὕτως , especially in its present position of primary emphasis, cannot well be otherwise understood than thus, i.e. ‘  in these words ,’ as a  specimen of the  Christian’s prayer (the  ὑμεῖς holds the second place in emphasis), no less than its  pattern . This, which would be the inference from the context here, is decided for us by Luke 11:2 , ὅταν προσεύχησθε , λέγετε .
	 [61] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 Πάτερ ἡμῶν ] This was a form of address almost unknown to the Old Covenant: now and then hinted at, as reminding the children of their rebellion (Isaiah 1:2 ; Mal 1:6 ), or mentioned as a last resource of the orphan and desolate creature ( Isa 63:16 ); but never brought out in its fulness, as indeed it could not be, till He was come by whom we have received the adoption of sons.
	‘Oratio fraterna est: non dicit, Pater meus, tanquam pro se tantum orans, sed Pater noster, omnes videlicet una oratione complectens, qui se in Christo fratres esse cognoscunt.’ Aug [62] Serm. lxiv. 4 App. vol. v. pt. ii. ἀπὸ δὲ τούτου καὶ ἔχθραν ἀναιρεῖ , καὶ ἀπόνοιαν καταστέλλει , καὶ βασκανίαν ἐκβάλλει , καὶ τὴν μητέρα τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἁπάντων ἀγάπην εἰσάγει , καὶ τὴν ἀνωμαλίαν τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων ἐξορίζει πραγμάτων , καὶ πολλὴν δείκνυσι τῷ βασιλεῖ πρὸς τὸν πτωχὸν τὴν ὁμοτιμίαν , εἴ γε ἐν τοῖς μεγίστοις καὶ ἀναγκαιοτάτοις κοινωνοῦμεν ἅπαντες . Chrysost. Hom. xix. 4, p. 250.
	 [62]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 ὁ ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς ] These opening words of the Lord’s Prayer set clearly before us the status of the Christian, as believing in, depending upon, praying to, a real  objective personal GOD, lifted above himself; to approach whom he must lift up his heart, as the eye is lifted up from earth to heaven. This strikes at the root of all  pantheistic error, which regards the spirit of man as identical with the Spirit of God, and at the root of all  Deism; testifying as it does our relation to and covenant dependence on our Heavenly Father.
	The  local heavens are no further to be thought of here, than as Scripture, by a parallelism of things natural and spiritual deeply implanted in our race (compare Aristotle, περὶ οὐρ . i. 3, πάντες γὰρ ἄνθρωποι περὶ θεῶν ἔχουσιν ὑπόληψιν , καὶ πάντες τὸν ἀνωτάτω τῷ θείῳ τόπον ἀποδιδόασι καὶ βάρβαροι καὶ Ἕλληνες ὅσοιπερ εἶναι νομίζουσι θεούς , δηλονότι ὡς τῷ ἀθανάτῳ τὸ ἀθάνατον συνηρτημένον ), universally speaks of  heaven and  heavenly , as applying to the habitation and perfections of the High and Holy One who inhabiteth Eternity.
	 ἁγιασθήτω τὸ ὄνομά σου ] De Wette observes: ‘God’s Name is not merely His appellation, which we speak with the mouth, but also and principally the idea which we attach to it, His Being, as far as it is confessed, revealed, or known.’ The ‘Name of God’ in Scripture is used to signify that revelation of Himself which He has made to men, which is all that we know of Him ( ὄνομα τοίνυν ἐστὶ κεφαλαιώδης προσηγορία τῆς ἰδίας ποιότητος τοῦ ὀνομαζομένου παραστατική . Orig [63] (Thol.)): into the depths of His Being, as it is, no human soul can penetrate. See John 17:6 ; Romans 9:17 .  ἁγιάζω here is in the sense of  keep holy, sanctify in our hearts, as in ref. 1 Pet. τὰ σεραφὶμ δοξάζοντα οὕτως ἔλεγον Ἅγιος ἅγιος ἅγιος , ὥστε τὸ ἁγιασθήτω τοῦτό ἐστι δοξασθήτω . Chrys. Hom. xix. 4, p. 250.
	 [63] Origen, b. 185, d. 254