 7.   βατταλογήσητε ] a word probably without any further derivation than an imitation of the sounds uttered by stammerers, who repeat their words often without meaning ( κατὰ μίμησιν τῆς φωνῆς , Hesych [56] ). Suidas, Eustath [57] , and others, supposed it derived from a certain stammering Battus, Herod. iv. 155. But the name of this Battus seems to have been given  from the circumstance; παῖς ἰσχνόφωνος καὶ τραυλός , τῷ οὔνομα ἐτέθη Βάττος . We have βατταρίζω and its derivatives with the same signification; and Æschines called Demosthenes βάταλος ( περὶ στ . p. 288. 17 Bekker). Hence the sense has generally been held to be, ‘  do not make unmeaning repetitions .’ But most of the Fathers (see the passages in Thol., and in Suicer sub voce) understand by βαττ ., the praying περὶ τὰ ἀνωφελῆ τε καὶ μάταια (so Greg. Nyss [58] ), or λέγειν τὰ διεφθαρμένα ἔργα , ἢ λόγους , ἢ νοήματα ταπεινὰ τυγχάνοντα (Orig [59] ), or ὅταν τὰ μὴ προσήκοντα αἰτῶμεν παρὰ τῷ θεῷ δυναστείας κ . δόξας : &c. Taking the word in its largest meaning, that of  saying things irrelevant and senseless , it may well include all these.
	 [56] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	 [57] Eustathius, Bp. of Antioch, 323
	 [58] Nyssa, Gregory, Bp. of, 371
	 [59] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 ἐθνικοί ] ‘Prece qua fatigent virgines sanctæ minus audientem carmina Vestam?’ Hor. Od. i. 2. 26. ‘Nisi illos (Deos) tuo ex ingenio judicas, Ut nil credas intelligere nisi idem dictum est centies.’ Ter. Heaut. Matthew 6:1 . What is forbidden in this verse is not  much praying, for our Lord Himself passed whole nights in prayer: not praying  in the same words , for this He did in the very intensity of His agony at Gethsemane; but the making number and length a  point of observance , and imagining that prayer will be heard, not because it is the genuine expression of the desire of faith, but because it is of such a length, has been such a number of times repeated. The repetitions of Paternosters and Ave Marias in the Romish Church, as  practised by them, are  in direct violation of this precept; the  number of repetitions being  prescribed , and the  efficacy of the performance made to depend on it . But the repetition of the Lord’s Prayer in the Liturgy of the Church of England is not a violation of it, nor that of the Kyrie Eleison, because it is not the number of these which is the object, but each has its  appropriate place and  reason in that which is preeminently a reasonable service. Our Lord was also denouncing a  Jewish error. Lightfoot quotes from the Rabbinical writings, ‘Omnis qui multiplicat orationem, auditor.’ Hor. Hebr. in loc. Augustine puts admirably the distinction between much  praying and much  speaking: ‘Absit ab oratione multa locutio; sed non desit multa precatio, si fervens perseverat intentio. Nam multum loqui, est in orando rem necessariam superfluis agere verbis; multum autem precari, est ad eum quem precamur diuturna et pia cordis excitatione pulsare. Nam plerumque hoc negotium plus gemitibus quam sermonibus agitur; plus fletu, quam affatu.’ Ep. cxxx. 10 (20), vol. ii. And Chrysostom, in one of his finest strains of eloquence, comments on this verse: μὴ τοίνυν τῷ σχήματι τοῦ σώματος , μηδὲ τῇ κραυγῇ τῆς φωνῆς , ἀλλὰ τῇ προθυμίᾳ τῆς γνώμης τὰς εὐχὰς ποιώμεθα · μηδὲ μετὰ ψόφου καὶ ἠχῆς καὶ πρὸς ἐπίδειξιν , ὡς καὶ τοὺς πλησίον ἐκκρούειν , ἀλλὰ μετὰ ἐπιεικείας πάσης καὶ τῆς κατὰ διάνοιαν συντριβῆς καὶ δακρύων τῶν ἔνδοθεν . Hom. xix. 3, p. 248. Those who have the opportunity should by all means read the whole passage, which is too long for insertion in a note.