40. the place—the Garden of
	Gethsemane, on the west or city side of the mount. Comparing all the
	accounts of this mysterious scene, the facts appear to be these: (1)
	He bade nine of the Twelve remain "here" while He went and
	prayed "yonder." (2) He "took the other three, Peter,
	James, and John, and began to be sore amazed [appalled], sorrowful,
	and very heavy [oppressed], and said, My soul is exceeding sorrowful
	even unto death"—"I feel as if nature would sink under
	this load, as if life were ebbing out, and death coming before its
	time"—"tarry ye here, and watch with Me"; not,
	"Witness for Me," but, "Bear Me company." It did
	Him good, it seems, to have them beside Him. (3) But soon even they
	were too much for Him: He must be alone. "He was withdrawn from
	them about a stone's-cast"—though near enough for them to be
	competent witnesses and kneeled down, uttering that most affecting
	prayer (Mark 14:36), that if
	possible "the cup," of His approaching death, "might
	pass from Him, but if not, His Father's will be done": implying
	that in itself it was so purely revolting that only its being
	the Father's will would induce Him to taste it, but that in that
	view of it He was perfectly prepared to drink it. It is no
	struggle between a reluctant and a compliant will, but between two
	views of one event—an abstract and a relative view of
	it, in the one of which it was revolting, in the other
	welcome. By signifying how it felt in the one view, He
	shows His beautiful oneness with ourselves in nature and feeling; by
	expressing how He regarded it in the other light, He reveals His
	absolute obediential subjection to His Father. (4) On this, having a
	momentary relief, for it came upon Him, we imagine, by surges, He
	returns to the three, and finding them sleeping, He addresses them
	affectingly, particularly Peter, as in Mark 14:37;
	Mark 14:38. He then (5) goes back,
	not now to kneel, but fell on His face on the ground, saying the same
	words, but with this turn, "If this cup may not pass,"
	c. (Matthew 26:42) —that is,
	'Yes, I understand this mysterious silence (Matthew 26:42- :) it may not pass; I am to drink it, and I will'—"Thy
	will be done!" (6) Again, for a moment relieved, He returns and
	finds them "sleeping for sorrow," warns them as before, but
	puts a loving construction upon it, separating between the "willing
	spirit" and the "weak flesh." (7) Once more, returning
	to His solitary spot, the surges rise higher, beat more
	tempestuously, and seem ready to overwhelm Him. To fortify Him for
	this, "there appeared an angel unto Him from heaven
	strengthening Him"—not to minister light or comfort (He was to
	have none of that, and they were not needed nor fitted to convey it),
	but purely to sustain and brace up sinking nature for a yet hotter
	and fiercer struggle. And now, He is "in an agony, and prays
	more earnestly"—even Christ's prayer, it seems, admitted of
	and now demanded such increase—"and His sweat was as it were
	great drops [literally, 'clots'] of blood falling down to the
	ground." What was this? Not His proper sacrificial offering,
	though essential to it. It was just the internal struggle, apparently
	hushing itself before, but now swelling up again, convulsing His
	whole inner man, and this so affecting His animal nature that the
	sweat oozed out from every pore in thick drops of blood, falling to
	the ground. It was just shuddering nature and indomitable
	will struggling together. But again the cry, If it must be, Thy
	will be done, issues from His lips, and all is over. "The
	bitterness of death is past." He has anticipated and rehearsed
	His final conflict, and won the victory—now on the theater of an
	invincible will, as then on the arena of the Cross. "I
	will suffer," is the grand result of Gethsemane: "It
	is finished" is the shout that bursts from the Cross. The Will
	without the Deed had been all in vain; but His work was consummated
	when He carried the now manifested Will into the palpable Deed, "by
	the which WILL we
	are sanctified THROUGH THE
	OFFERING OF THE BODY OF JESUS
	CHRIST ONCE FOR ALL"
	(Hebrews 10:10). (8) At the close
	of the whole scene, finding them still sleeping (worn out with
	continued sorrow and racking anxiety), He bids them, with an irony of
	deep emotion, "sleep on now and take their rest, the hour is
	come, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners, rise, let
	us be going, the traitor is at hand." And while He spoke, Judas
	approached with his armed band. Thus they proved "miserable
	comforters," broken reeds; and thus in His whole work He was
	alone, and "of the people there was none with Him." 
	Hebrews 10:10- :. BETRAYAL AND
	APPREHENSION OF
	JESUS—FLIGHT
	OF HIS DISCIPLES.
	 
	Hebrews 10:10- :. JESUS BEFORE
	CAIAPHAS—FALL
	OF PETER. 
	The particulars of these two
	sections require a combination of all the narratives, for which see
	on Hebrews 10:10- :.