John 12:27.  Now is my soul troubled.  There is no want of connection between these words and the immediately preceding verses. The connection, on the contrary, is of the closest kind. Because this is the moment of highest exaltation in the contemplation of the universal triumph symbolized in the coming of the Greeks, it is also that when all the intensity of suffering by which the triumph is procured is most present to the mind of Jesus. The verb ‘troubled’ is the same as in John 11:33, ‘He troubled Himself,’
	 And what shall  I say? Not, What feelings shall I cherish at this hour, What mood of mind becomes the circumstances in which I am placed? but, How shall I find utterance for the emotions that now fill my heart?
	 Father, save me out of this hour.  To   understand these words interrogatively, ‘Shall I say, Father, save me from this hour?’ as is done by many commentators, is to introduce a hesitation into the mind of Jesus which we may well believe never had place in it, and is almost, if we may venture to say so, to give the utterance a sentimental turn at variance with the solemn scene; on the other hand, viewed as a direct prayer to His Heavenly Father, they are the exemplification in His own case of the law of John 12:25. It is usually thought that Jesus prays that He may be spared the bitterness of this hour. Matthew 26:39 shows that Jesus had the feeling one perfectly free from sin that would lead Him to escape suffering and death; but the higher law immediately comes in. He has the Father’s will to do. To it He must yield His life, His self. Therefore He adds,  But for this cause  (that the Father’s name may be glorified, John 12:28)  came I unto this hour.  This prayer, however, is not ‘save me from,’ but ‘save me out of this hour,’ not for freedom from suffering, but (comp. Hebrews 5:7; Acts 2:31) for deliverance out of it. Such a prayer is as consistent with His knowledge of ‘the glory that should follow  ’  as is Matthew 26:39 with Matthew 16:21. But the very prayer for deliverance is checked. ‘For this cause’ (that He may be delivered out of the hour) ‘came I unto this hour:’ the object of the hour of suffering is to bring triumph. We must not miss the emphasis on the word ‘Father;’ it is not simply God’s but the Father’s glory that he desires.