 10 .]  And the third angel blew his trumpet, and there fell from heaven a great star burning as a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the fountains of the waters (it can hardly be said, as Düsterd., that we are here as matter of course to understand, on the  third part of the fountains, any more than we are to limit the πᾶς χόρτος χλωρός in Rev 8:7 to all the grass within the third part of the earth).  And the name of the star is called Wormwood (the more usual forms are τὸ ἀψίνθιον , or ἡ ἄψινθος . The masc. seems to be chosen on account of its conformity to ὁ ἀστήρ . There is a river in Thrace so called. See on the plant, and its medicinal use by the ancients, Winer, Realw. art.  Wermuth : and Pliny, xxvii. 28),  and the third part of the waters became (  was turned into , see reff.)  wormwood: and many of the men (who dwelt by these waters: such may be the force of the article. But τῶν ἀνθρ . may be general. It is the only place where the expression πολλ . τῶν ἀνθρ . occurs)  died from (  ἐκ of the source whence a result springs, see Winer, edn. 6, § 47, sub voce)  the waters, because they were embittered (compare the converse history, Exodus 15:23 ff., of the bitter waters being made sweet by casting a certain tree into them: see also 2 Kings 2:19 ff. The question whether wormwood was a deadly poison or not, is out of place here. It is not said that all who drank, died. And the effect of any bitter drug, however medicinally valuable, being mixed with the water ordinarily used, would be to occasion sickness and death. It is hardly possible to read of this third plague, and not to think of the deadly effect of those strong spirituous drinks which are in fact water turned into poison. The very name  absinthe is not unknown in their nomenclature: and there is no effect which could be so aptly described by the falling of fire into water, as this, which results in  ardent spirit, in that which the simple islanders of the South Sea call  firewater . That this plague may go on to destroy even this fearful proportion of the ungodly in the latter days, is far from impossible, considering its prevalence even now in some parts of the civilized world. But I mention this rather as an illustration, than as an interpretation).
	 And the fourth angel blew his trumpet: and the third part of the sun was struck (it is not said, as in the case of the former three trumpets,  with what . And this absence of an instrument in the fourth of these correlative visions perhaps teaches us not to attribute too much import to the instruments by which the previous judgments are brought about. It is the πληγή itself, not its instrument, on which attention should be directed)  and the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars, that the third part of them might be darkened, and the day might not shine during the third part of it (the limitation of the τὸ τρίτον is now manifestly to time, not to brightness. So E. V. rightly, “for a third part of it.” That this consequence is no natural one following upon the obscuration of a third portion of the sun, &c., is not to be alleged as any objection, but belongs to the altogether supernatural region in which these visions are situated. Thus we have a globe of fire turning sea-water to blood a burning star embittering the waters: &c.),  and the night in like manner (i. e. the night as far as she is, by virtue of the moon and stars, a time of light. And this is far more so under the glorious Eastern moon and stars, than in our mist-laden climate).