 8 .]  And the second angel blew his trumpet: and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea (first, by the  ὡς , that which was cast into the sea was  not a mountain , but only a burning mass so large as to look like one. Then, it was  this mass itself , not any thing proceeding from it, which was cast down. So that the introduction of a  volcano into the imagery is quite unjustifiable. In the language (hardly in the sense) there seems to be a reminiscence of Jeremiah 28:25, δώσω σε ὡς ὄρος ἐμπεπυρισμένον . It is remarkable that there the ὄρος should be characterized as τὸ διεφθαρμένον τὸ διαφθεῖρον πᾶσαν τὴν γῆν : cf. our ch. Rev 11:18 ),  and the third part of the sea became blood (so in the Egyptian plague the Nile and all the Egyptian waters. By the  non-consequence of the  result of the fiery mass falling into the sea (so De W., “  eine Wirkung ohne Analogie ”) is again represented to us that in the infliction of this plague from above, the instrument of it is merely described as it appeared (  ὡς ), not as it really was. So that all ideas imported into the interpretation which take the  mountain , or the  fiery character of it, as elements in the symbolism, are departures from the real intent of the description):  and the third part of the creatures (reff.) (  that were )  in the sea (not, as Elliott, “in the third part of the sea,” but in the whole. Nor again must we stretch ἐν τῇ θαλάσσῃ to mean the maritime coasts, nor the islands, nor the transmarine provinces: a usage not even shewn to exist by the examples cited by him, vol. i. p. 344 note: nor by Tacitus’s “  plenum exsiliis mare ;” any more than, if we were to say “the sea is full of emigrants from Ireland,” we should by “  the sea ” mean “  the ships ”)  died (cf. Exo 7:17-21 )  those which have life (animal souls: see reff.: and for the appositional nominative, ch. Rev 2:20 reff.),  and the third part of the ships were destroyed (another inconsequent result, and teaching us as before.
	We may remark, at the end of this second trumpet, that the judgments inflicted by these first two are distinctly those which in ch. Rev 7:3 were held back until the servants of God were sealed: μὴ ἀδικήσητε τὴν  γῆν μήτε τὴν  θάλασσαν μήτε τὰ  δένδρα , ἄχρι σφραγίσωμεν κ . τ . λ . So that, as before generally remarked, the place of these trumpet-plagues must be sought  after that sealing: and consequently (see there) in very close conjunction with the day of the Lord itself).