 7 .]  And the first blew his trumpet, and there took place hail and fire mingled in blood (i. e. the hail  and the fire were mingled together (plur.) in blood, as their flux or vehicle; the stones of hail and the balls of fire (not  lightning , as Ebr.) fell in a shower of blood, just as hail and fireballs commonly fall in a shower of rain. There is here manifestly an allusion to the plague of hail in Egypt, of which it is said that “the fire ran along upon the ground:” ἦν δὲ ἡ χάλαζα καὶ τὸ πῦρ φλογίζον ἐν τῇ χαλάζῃ , ref. Exod.: but with the addition of the blood. With regard to this latter, we may remark, that both here and under the vials, where the earth, seas, and rivers are again the objects of the first three judgments,  blood is a feature common to all three. It appears rather to indicate a general character of the judgments, than to require any special interpretation in each particular case. In blood is life: in the shedding, or in the appearing, of blood, is implied the destruction of life, with which, as a consequence, all these judgments must be accompanied),  and it was cast into the earth (towards the surface of the earth):  and the third part (this expression first occurring here, it will be well once for all to enquire into its meaning in these prophecies. I may first say, that all  special interpretations seem to me utterly to have failed, and of these none so signally as that of Mr. Elliott, who would understand it of a tripartite division of the Roman Empire at the time to which he assigns this judgment. It is fatal to this whole class of interpretations, that it is not said the hail, &c. were  cast on a third part , but that the destruction occasioned by them  extended to a third part of the earth on which they were cast. And this is most expressly declared to be so in this first case, by  all green grass being also destroyed, not a third part: a fact of which Elliott takes no notice. It is this mixture of the fractional third with other designations of extent of mischief, which will lead us, I believe, to the right interpretation. We find it again under the third trumpet, where the star Wormwood is cast ἐπὶ  τὸ τρίτον τῶν ποταμῶν , καὶ ἐπὶ  τὰς πηγὰς τε ͂ ν ὑδάτων : the result being that τὸ τρίτον τῶν ὑδάτων was embittered. This lax usage would of itself lead us to suppose that we are not to look for strict definiteness in the interpretation. And if we refer to the prophecy in Zechariah 13:8 f., where the import is to announce judgment on a greater part and the escape of a remnant, we find the same tripartite division: καὶ ἔσται ἐν πάσῃ τῇ γῇ , λέγει κύριος , τὰ δύο μέρη αὐτῆς ἐξολοθρευθήσεται , καὶ ἐκλείψει , τὸ δὲ τρίτον ὑπολειφθήσεται ἐν αὐτῇ . καὶ διάξω τὸ τρίτον διὰ πυρός , κ . τ . λ . Nay, in the Apocalypse itself, we have τὸ τρίτον used where the sense can hardly but be similarly indefinite: e. g., under the sixth trumpet, ch. Revelation 9:15 ; Revelation 9:18 , and Revelation 12:4 , where it is said that the dragon’s tail σύρει τὸ τρίτον τῶν ἀστέρων τοῦ οὐρανοῦ : the use of the  present shewing that it is rather a general power, than a particular event which is designated. Compare again the use of τὸ τέταρτον τῆς γῆς in ch. Revelation 6:8 , and of τὸ δέκατον τῆς πόλεως in ch. Revelation 11:13 . All these seem to shew, that such prophetic expressions are to be taken rather in their import as to amount, than in any strict fractional division. Here, for instance, I would take the pervading τὸ τρίτον as signifying, that though the judgment is undoubtedly, as to extent, fearful and sweeping, yet that God in inflicting it, spares more than he smites: two thirds escape in each case, while one is smitten)  of the earth (i. e. plainly of the surface of the earth, and that, of the cultivated soil, which admitted of such a devastation)  was burnt up (so that the  fire prevails in the plague, not the hail nor the blood),  and the third part of the trees (in all the earth, not in the third part)  was burnt up, and all green grass (upon earth: no longer a third part: possibly because green grass would first and unavoidably every where scorch up at the approach of such a plague, whereas the hardier crops and trees might partially escape)  was burnt up .