 13 .]  Introduction of the three remaining trumpets by three woes .  And I saw and heard (the construction is zeugmatic)  an (  ἑνός indefinite, as in reff.: see Winer, edn. 6, § 18. 9. Or it may carry meaning a single or solitary eagle, as might also be the case in one of the reff., ch. Revelation 18:21 , see there)  eagle (hardly to be identified with the eagles of Matthew 24:28 ; for 1) that saying is more proverbial than prophetic: and 2) any application of that saying would be far more aptly reserved for our ch. Revelation 19:17 . Nor again is the eagle a bird of ill omen, as Ewald: nor a contrast to the dove in John 1:32 , as Hengstb.: but far more probably the symbol of judgment and vengeance rushing to its prey, as in Deuteronomy 28:49 ; Hosea 8:1 ; Habakkuk 1:8 . Nor again is it to be understood as an angel in eagle’s shape: but a veritable eagle in the vision. Thus we have the  altar speaking, ch. Rev 16:7 )  flying in mid-heaven (i. e. in the south or noon-day sky where the sun reaches the meridian, for which μεσουρανεῖν is the word. Wetst. cites from Eustath. on Il. θ . 68, αὔξησις ἡμέρας λέγεται καθ ʼ Ὅμηρον τὸ ἀπὸ πρωΐας μέχρις ἡλιακοῦ μεσουρανήματος , τὸ δὲ ἐντεῦθεν φθίνειν ἡμέρα δοκεῖ . See his many other examples. So that the word does not signify the space intermediate between heaven and earth, but as above. And the eagle flies there, to be seen and heard of all. I may also notice that the whole expression favours the true reading ἀετοῦ as against the substituted ἀγγέλου )  saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to those that dwell (the government of an accus. after οὐαί is also found in ch. Rev 12:12 )  upon the earth (the objects of the vengeance invoked in the prayers of the martyrs, ch. Revelation 6:10 ; the ungodly world, as distinguished from the church)  by reason of (so E. V., well: ἐκ denoting, as in Revelation 8:11 , the source whence the woe springs)  the remaining voices of the trumpet (the sing, is used generically: the three voices all having this common to them, that they are the sound of a trumpet)  of the three angels who are about to blow .