31. Do we then make void the law
	through faith?—"Does this doctrine of justification by
	faith, then, dissolve the obligation of the law? If so, it cannot be
	of God. But away with such a thought, for it does just the reverse."
	God forbid: yea, we establish
	the law—It will be observed here, that, important as was this
	objection, and opening up as it did so noble a field for the
	illustration of the peculiar glory of the Gospel, the apostle does no
	more here than indignantly repel it, intending at a subsequent stage
	of his argument (Romans 6:1-23)
	to resume and discuss it at length. 
	Note, (1) It is a
	fundamental requisite of all true religion that it tend to humble the
	sinner and exalt God; and every system which breeds
	self-righteousness, or cherishes boasting, bears falsehood on its
	face (Romans 3:27; Romans 3:28).
	(2) The fitness of the Gospel to be a universal religion, beneath
	which the guilty of every name and degree are invited and warranted
	to take shelter and repose, is a glorious evidence of its truth
	(Romans 3:29; Romans 3:30).
	(3) The glory of God's law, in its eternal and immutable obligations,
	is then only fully apprehended by the sinner, and then only is it
	enthroned in the depths of his soul, when, believing that "He
	was made sin for him who knew no sin," he sees himself "made
	the righteousness of God in Him" (Romans 3:30- :). Thus do we not make void the law through faith: yea, we
	establish the law. (4) This chapter, and particularly the latter part
	of it, "is the proper seat of the Pauline doctrine of
	Justification, and the grand proof-passage of the Protestant doctrine
	of the Imputation of Christ's righteousness and of Justification not
	on account of, but through faith alone" [PHILIPPI].
	To make good this doctrine, and reseat it in the faith and affection
	of the Church, was worth all the bloody struggles that it cost our
	fathers, and it will be the wisdom and safety, the life and vigor of
	the churches, to "stand fast in this liberty wherewith Christ
	hath made them free, and not be again entangled"—in the very
	least degree—"with the yoke of bondage" (Romans 3:30- :).