 1. ] These dates are consistent with the  ἀκριβῶς παρακολουθεῖν which Luke predicates of himself, ch. Luke 1:3 . In Mat 3:1 we have the same events indicated as to time by only ἐν ταῖς ἡμ . ἐκείναις .
	The fifteenth year of the  sole principate of Tiberius began Aug. 19, U.C. 781, and reckoning backwards thirty years from that time (see Luk 3:23 ), we should have the birth of our Lord in U.C. 751 or about then; for  ὡσεὶ τριάκ . will admit of some latitude. But Herod the Great died in the beginning of the year 750, and our Lord’s birth must be fixed  some months at least before the death of Herod. If then it be placed in 749, He would have been at least thirty-two at the time of His baptism, seeing that it took place some time after the beginning of John’s ministry. This difficulty has led to the supposition that this fifteenth year is not to be dated from the  sole but from the  associated principate of Tiberius, which commenced most probably at the end of U.C. 764. According to this, the fifteenth of Tiberius will begin at the end of U.C. 779 and our Lord’s birth would be U.C. 749 or 50: which will agree with the death of Herod. This latter explanation has usually been adopted. Our present æra was fixed by Dionysius Exiguus, in the sixth century, and places the birth of our Lord in 754 U.C. It may be doubted, however, whether in all these reckonings more accuracy has not been sought than the Gospel narrative warrants any expectation of our finding. The  ὡσεὶ ἐτῶν τρ  . is a wide expression, and might cover any age from thirty (see note on Luk 3:23 ) to thirty-two or thirty-three.
	See on Matthew 2:2 , where it appears probable from astronomical considerations, that our Lord was born as early as U.C. 747. Mr. Greswell has devoted several Dissertations to this enquiry: see his vol. i. p. 189 ff.
	 ἡγεμ  .   Π  .   Πιλ  . ] Pilate was only  Procurator of Judæa: the words cognate to ἡγεμών being used promiscuously of the leading officers of the Roman government. PONTIUS PILATE was the sixth procurator from the deposition of Archelaus, and came to Judæa about U.C. 779. He held the province ten years, and was sent to Rome to answer for his conduct by Vitellius, prefect of Syria, U.C. 789, the year of the death of Tiberius. See chronological table in Prolegg. Vol. II.
	 Ἡρώδσυ ] See note on Matthew 14:1 . HEROD ANTIPAS became tetrarch of Galilee after the death of his father Herod, U.C. 750, and continued till he was deposed in 792.
	 Φιλίππου ] Son of Herod the Great by Cleopatra, a woman of Jerusalem, Jos. Antt. xvii. 1. 3. He was brought up at Rome, and after his father’s death in U.C. 750 was made tetrarch of Batanæa, Gaulonitis, Trachonitis, Panias, Auranitis (Batanæa + Auranitis = Ituræa), and continued till his death in U.C. 786 or 787. He built Cæsarea Philippi. He was by far the best of Herod’s sons, and ruled his portion mildly and well. He must not be confounded with  his half-brother Philip , whose wife Herodias Herod Antipas seduced. This latter was disinherited by his father, and lived in privacy. See note on Matthew 14:1 .
	 Λυσαν  .   τ  .   Ἀβ  .   τετρ  . ] ABILENE, the district round Abila, a town eighteen miles north of Damascus, now, according to Pococke, Nebi Abel. It must not be confounded with Abila in Decapolis, Josephus, Antt. xix. 5. 1, mentions it as among the districts which Claudius gave to king Agrippa I. under the name of Ἄβιλα ἡ Λυσανίου , and in B. J. ii. 11. 5, as ἑτέρα βασιλεία ἡ Λυσανίου καλουμένη .
	In Antt. xx. 7. 1, he has Ἀβίλᾳ . Λυσανίᾳ δὲ αὕτη ἐγεγόνει τετραρχία : cf. also Ptolem. Luke 3:15 , Ἄβιλα ἐπικληθεῖσα Λυσανίου (making it, however, one of the cities of Decapolis). This Lysanias however was son of Ptolemy, the son of Minnæus (B. J. i. 13. 1), and was killed by Antony, at Cleopatra’s instigation (B.C. 34). The Lysanias here mentioned may be some descendant of the other, since we find him here  only ruling Abilene , whereas the other is called by Dio (xlix. 32), king of Ituræa. Now at his death we learn that the οἶκος τοῦ Λυσ . was farmed by one Zenodorus (Antt. xv. 10. 1), whom (ib. § 3) Augustus deprived of his ἐπαρχία , and at his death, which immediately followed, gave the principal of his districts, Trachonitis, Auranitis (Antt. xvii. 11. 4), &c., to Herod, B.C. 23. Among these  Abilene is not named , and it therefore is possible that it may have been  granted to a descendant of the former possessor . The silence of Josephus is no reason against this supposition, as he does not minutely relate the fortunes of districts which do not lie in the path of his history. The appellation of Ἄβιλα ἡ Λυσανίου again in the time of Claudius, after this appellation has disappeared so long, looks as if there had been another Λυσανίας between. See Wieseler, i. 175 ff. Meyer, Comm. in loc. Bleek, Synoptische Erkl. in loc.