 23. ]  Jesus was about thirty years old when He began (His ministry); not, ‘began to be about,’ &c., which is ungrammatical, ἀρχόμενος τῆς εἰς τὸν λαὸν ἀναδείξεως αὐτοῦ , ἤτοι τῆς διδασκαλίας , Euthym [35] , so also Orig [36] , Bengel, Kuin., De Wette, Meyer, Wieseler: see also Acts 1:1 .
	 [35] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [36] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	This  ὡσεὶ τρ  . admits of considerable latitude, but only in one direction; viz.  over thirty years. He could not well be under, seeing that this was the appointed age for the commencement of public service of God by the Levites: see Numbers 4:3 ; Numbers 4:23 ; Numbers 4:43 ; Numbers 4:47 .
	If no other proof were in existence of the  total independence of the present Gospels of Matthew and Luke , their  genealogies would furnish what I conceive to be an undeniable one. Is it possible that either of these Evangelists could have set down his genealogy  with that of the other before him? Would no remark have been made on their many and (on  such a supposition ) unaccountable variations? It is quite beside the purpose of the present commentary to attempt to reconcile the two. It has never yet been accomplished; and every endeavour to do it has violated either ingenuousness or common sense. I shall, as in similar cases, only indicate the landmarks which may serve to guide us to all that is possible for us to discover concerning them. (1) The two genealogies are  both the line of Joseph , and  not of Mary . Whether Mary were an heiress or not, Luke’s words here preclude the idea of the genealogy being  hers; for the descent of the Lord is transferred putatively to Joseph by the  ὡς ἐνομίζετο  , before the genealogy begins; and it would be unnatural to suppose that the reckoning, which began with the real mother, would, after such transference, pass back through  her to  her father again, as it must do, if the genealogy be  hers .
	The attempts of many, and recently of Wieseler, to make it appear that the genealogy is that of Mary, reading νἱὸς ( ὡς ἐνομ . τοῦ Ἰωσὴφ ) τοῦ Ἡλί , ‘  the son (  as supposed of Joseph, but in reality )  of Heli , &c.’ are, as Meyer (Comm. in loc.) has shewn, quite unsuccessful: see Dr. Mill’s vindication of the Genealogies, p. 180 ff. for the history of this opinion. (2) Luke appears to have taken this genealogy entire from some authority before him, in which the expression υἱὸς θεοῦ as applied to Christ, was made good by tracing it up as here, through a regular ascent of progenitors till we come to Adam, who was, but here again inexactly, the son of God. This seems much more probable than that Luke should for his gentile readers have gone up to the origin of the human race instead of to Abraham. I cannot imagine any such purpose  definitely present in the mind of the Evangelist.
	This view is confirmed by the entirely insulated situation of the genealogy here, between Luk 3:23 and ch. Luke 4:1 . (3) The points of divergence between the genealogies are, in Matt. the father of Joseph is Jacob in Luke, Heli; this gives rise to different lists (except two common names, Zorobabel and Salathiel) up to David, where the accounts coincide again, and remain nearly identical up to Abraham, where Matt. ceases. (4) Here, as elsewhere, I believe that the accounts might be reconciled, or at all events good reason might be assigned for their differing, if we were in possession of data on which to proceed; but here as elsewhere,  we are not . For who shall reproduce the endless combinations of elements of confusion, which might creep into a genealogy of this kind? Matthew’s, we know, is squared so as to form three tesseradecads,  by the omission of several generations; how can we tell that some similar step unknown to us may not have been taken with the one before us? It was common among the Jews for the same man to bear different names; how do we know how often this may occur among the immediate progenitors of Joseph? The levirate marriage (of a brother with a brother’s wife to raise up seed, which then might be accounted to either husband) was common; how do we know how often this may have contributed to produce variations in the terms of a genealogy?
	With all these elements of confusion, it is quite as presumptuous to pronounce the genealogies discrepant, as it is over-curious and uncritical to attempt to reconcile them. It may suffice us that they are inserted in the Gospels as authentic documents, and both of them merely to clear the Davidical descent of the putative father of the Lord. HIS OWN  real Davidical descent  does not depend on either of them , but must be  solely derived through his mother . See much interesting investigation of the various solutions and traditions, in Dr. Mill’s tract referred to above; and in Lord A. Hervey’s work on the Genealogies of our Lord.