 And when they had appointed for them elders in every church  (χειροτονησαντες δε αυτοις κατ' εκκλησιαν πρεσβυτερους). They needed also some form of organization, though already churches. Note distributive use of κατα with εκκλησιαν (Acts 2:46; Acts 5:42; Titus 1:5). Χειροτονεω (from χειροτονος, extending the hand, χειρ, hand, and τεινω, to stretch) is an old verb that originally meant to vote by show of the hands, finally to appoint with the approval of an assembly that chooses as in 2 Corinthians 8:19, and then to appoint without regard to choice as in Josephus (Ant. XIII. 2, 2) of the appointment of Jonathan as high priest by Alexander. So in Acts 10:41 the compound προχειρατονεω is used of witnesses appointed by God. But the seven (deacons) were first selected by the Jerusalem church and then appointed (καταστησομεν) by the apostles. That is probably the plan contemplated by Paul in his directions to Titus (Titus 1:5) about the choice of elders. It is most likely that this plan was the one pursued by Paul and Barnabas with these churches. They selected the elders in each instance and Paul and Barnabas "ordained" them as we say, though the word χειροτονεω does not mean that. "Elders" were mentioned first in Acts 11:30. Later Paul will give the requirements expected in these "elders" or "bishops" (Philippians 1:1) as in 1 Timothy 3:1-7; Titus 1:5-9. It is fairly certain that these elders were chosen to correspond in a general way with the elders in the Jewish synagogue after which the local church was largely copied as to organization and worship. Paul, like Jesus, constantly worshipped and spoke in the synagogues. Already it is plain, as at Antioch in Syria (Acts 11:26), that the Christians can no longer count on the use of the Jewish synagogue. They must have an organization of their own. The use of the plural here implies what was true at Philippi (Philippians 1:1) and Ephesus (Acts 20:17; Acts 20:28) that each church (one in each city) "had its college of elders" (Hackett) as in Jerusalem (Acts 21:18). Elder (πρεσβυτερος) was the Jewish name and bishop (επισκοπος) the Greek name for the same office. "Those who are called elders in speaking of Jewish communities are called bishops in speaking of Gentile communities" (Hackett). Hovey rightly holds against Hackett that teaching was a normal function of these elders, pastors or bishops as they were variously called (1 Timothy 3:2; Titus 1:9; 1 Corinthians 12:28; 1 Corinthians 12:30; Ephesians 4:11).Had prayed with fasting  (προσευξαμενο μετα νηστειων). It was a serious matter, this formal setting apart of these "elders" in the churches. So it was done in a public meeting with prayer and fasting as when Paul and Barnabas were sent forth from Antioch in Syria (Acts 13:3) on this mission tour.They commended them to the Lord  (παρεθεντο αυτους τω κυριω). Second aorist middle indicative of παρατιθημ. Old and solemn word, to entrust, to deposit as in a bank (1 Timothy 1:18; 2 Timothy 2:2). Cf. παραθηκη in 1 Timothy 6:20; 2 Timothy 1:12; 2 Timothy 1:14. It was all that they could now do, to commit them to the Lord Jesus. Jesus used this word on the cross (Luke 22:32).On whom they had believed  (εις ον πεπιστευκεισαν). Past perfect indicative (without augment) of πιστευω. They had "trusted" in Jesus (2 Timothy 1:12) and Paul now "entrusts" them to him with confidence. It was a solemn and serious occasion in each instance as it always is to set apart men for the ministry. These men may not have been ideal men for this service, but they were the only ones available and they were chosen from the actual membership in each instance, men who knew local conditions and problems. 