 But there came thither Jews from Antioch and Iconium  (Επηλθαν δε απο Αντιοχειας κα Ικονιου Ιουδαιο). Came to or upon them, επηλθαν, second aorist (ingressive) indicative of επερχομα. Whether news of the miracle had reached those cities we do not know. These may have been travelling grain merchants. At any rate there was an interval in which Paul and Barnabas won some disciples (verse Acts 14:22). There would be a natural reaction, even revulsion, in the minds of many who had come so near to worshipping Paul and Barnabas. The pendulum swings easily from one extreme to the other. The hostile Jews from Antioch and Iconium may even have followed Paul and Barnabas along the fine Roman road on purpose to keep them on the run. They had driven them out of Antioch and out of Iconium and now appear at Lystra at an opportune moment for their work.Having persuaded the multitudes  (πεισαντες τους οχλους). First aorist (effective) active participle of πειθω. They had complete success with many and struck at the psychological moment.They stoned Paul  (λιθασαντες τον Παυλον). First aorist active participle of λιθαζω, late verb from λιθος for throwing stones (used by Paul referring to this one incident when alone he was stoned, 2 Corinthians 11:25). The wounds inflicted may have left some of the scars (στιγματα) mentioned in Galatians 6:17. They stoned Paul as the chief speaker (Mercury) and passed by Barnabas (Jupiter). It was a Jewish mode of punishment as against Stephen and these Jews knew that Paul was the man that they had to deal with. Hackett notes that the Jews with two exceptions incited the persecutions which Paul endured. The exceptions were in Philippi (Acts 16:16-40) and Ephesus (Acts 19:23-41).Dragged him out of the city  (εσυρον εξω της πολεως). They hurled Stephen outside of the city before stoning him (7:58). It was a hurried and irregular proceeding, but they were dragging (imperfect active of συρω, old verb) Paul out now.Supposing that he were dead  (νομιζοντες αυτον τεθνηκενα). Present active participle with infinitive (second perfect active of θνησκω) in indirect discourse with accusative of general reference. The Jews are jubilant this time with memories of Paul's escape at Antioch and Iconium. The pagan mob feel that they have settled accounts for their narrow escape from worshipping two Jewish renegade preachers. It was a good day's work for them all. Luke does not say that Paul was actually dead. 