11. And not only so, but we also
	joy—rather, "glory." 
	in God through our Lord Jesus
	Christ, by—"through" 
	whom we have now received the
	atonement—rather, "the reconciliation" (Margin),
	as the same word is rendered in  :- and in 2 Corinthians 5:18; 2 Corinthians 5:19.
	(In fact, the earlier meaning of the English word "atonement"
	was "the reconciliation of two estranged parties")
	[TRENCH]. The foregoing
	effects of justification were all benefits to ourselves, calling for
	gratitude; this last may be termed a purely disinterested one. Our
	first feeling towards God, after we have found peace with Him, is
	that of clinging gratitude for so costly a salvation; but no sooner
	have we learned to cry, Abba, Father, under the sweet sense of
	reconciliation, than "gloriation" in Him takes the place of
	dread of Him, and now He appears to us "altogether lovely!"
	On this section, Note, (1)
	How gloriously does the Gospel evince its divine origin by basing all
	acceptable obedience on "peace with God," laying the
	foundations of this peace in a righteous "justification" of
	the sinner "through our Lord Jesus Christ," and making this
	the entrance to a permanent standing in the divine favor, and a
	triumphant expectation of future glory! (Romans 5:1;
	Romans 5:2). Other peace, worthy of
	the name, there is none; and as those who are strangers to it rise
	not to the enjoyment of such high fellowship with God, so they have
	neither any taste for it nor desire after it. (2) As only believers
	possess the true secret of patience under trials, so, although "not
	joyous but grievous" in themselves (Romans 5:2- :), when trials divinely sent afford them the opportunity of
	evidencing their faith by the grace of patience under them, they
	should "count it all joy" (Romans 5:3;
	Romans 5:4; and see James 1:2;
	James 1:3). (3) "Hope,"
	in the New Testament sense of the term, is not a lower degree of
	faith or assurance (as many now say, I hope for heaven, but am
	not sure of it); but invariably means "the confident
	expectation of future good." It presupposes faith; and what
	faith assures us will be ours, hope accordingly expects.
	In the nourishment of this hope, the soul's look outward to
	Christ for the ground of it, and inward upon ourselves for
	evidence of its reality, must act and react upon each other (James 1:3- : and Romans 5:4 compared).
	(4) It is the proper office of the Holy Ghost to beget in the soul
	the full conviction and joyful consciousness of the love of God in
	Christ Jesus to sinners of mankind, and to ourselves in particular;
	and where this exists, it carries with it such an assurance of final
	salvation as cannot deceive (Romans 5:4- :). (5) The justification of sinful men is not in virtue
	of their amendment, but of "the blood of God's Son";
	and while this is expressly affirmed in Romans 5:4- :, our reconciliation to God by the "death
	of His Son," affirmed in Romans 5:4- :, is but a variety of the same statement. In both, the
	blessing meant is the restoration of the sinner to a righteous
	standing in the sight of God; and in both, the meritorious ground
	of this, which is intended to be conveyed, is the expiatory
	sacrifice of God's Son. (6) Gratitude to God for redeeming love,
	if it could exist without delight in God Himself, would be a selfish
	and worthless feeling; but when the one rises into the other—the
	transporting sense of eternal "reconciliation" passing into
	"gloriation in God" Himself—then the lower is sanctified
	and sustained by the higher, and each feeling is perfective of the
	other (Romans 5:11). 
	Romans 5:11- :. COMPARISON AND
	CONTRAST BETWEEN ADAM
	AND CHRIST IN THEIR
	RELATION TO THE HUMAN
	FAMILY. 
	(This profound and most weighty
	section has occasioned an immense deal of critical and theological
	discussion, in which every point, and almost every clause, has been
	contested. We can here but set down what appears to us to be the only
	tenable view of it as a whole and of its successive clauses, with
	some slight indication of the grounds of our judgment).