14. Nevertheless death reigned from
	Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the
	similitude of Adam's transgression—But who are they?—a much
	contested question. Infants (say some), who being guiltless of
	actual sin, may be said not to have sinned in the way that
	Adam did [AUGUSTINE, BEZA,
	HODGE]. But why should
	infants be specially connected with the period "from Adam to
	Moses," since they die alike in every period? And if the apostle
	meant to express here the death of infants, why has he done it so
	enigmatically? Besides, the death of infants is comprehended in the
	universal mortality on account of the first sin, so emphatically
	expressed in Romans 5:12; what need
	then to specify it here? and why, if not necessary, should we presume
	it to be meant here, unless the language unmistakably point to
	it—which it certainly does not? The meaning then must be, that
	"death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those that had not,
	like Adam, transgressed against a positive commandment, threatening
	death to the disobedient." (So most interpreters). In this case,
	the particle "even," instead of specifying one particular
	class of those who lived "from Adam to Moses" (as the other
	interpretation supposes), merely explains what it was that made the
	case of those who died from Adam to Moses worthy of special
	notice—namely, that "though unlike Adam and all since Moses,
	those who lived between the two had no positive threatening of death
	for transgression, nevertheless, death reigned even over them."
	who is the figure—or,
	"a type." 
	of him that was to
	come—Christ. "This clause is inserted on the first mention
	of the name "Adam," the one man of whom he is
	speaking, to recall the purpose for which he is treating of him, as
	the figure of Christ" [ALFORD].
	The point of analogy intended here is plainly the public character
	which both sustained, neither of the two being regarded in the divine
	procedure towards men as mere individual men, but both alike
	as representative men. (Some take the proper supplement here
	to be "Him [that is] to come"; understanding the apostle to
	speak from his own time, and to refer to Christ's second coming
	[FRITZSCHE, DE
	WETTE, ALFORD].
	But this is unnatural, since the analogy of the second Adam to the
	first has been in full development ever since "God exalted Him
	to be a Prince and a Saviour," and it will only remain to be
	consummated at His second coming. The simple meaning is, as nearly
	all interpreters agree, that Adam is a type of Him who was to come
	after him in the same public character, and so to be "the second
	Adam").