 1 .]  But (contrast to the glorious mystery of piety which has been just dwelt on) the Spirit (viz. the Holy Spirit of prophecy, speaking in the Apostle himself, or in others, or, which is most probable, in both in the general prophetic testimony which He bore throughout the church: cf. γίνωσκε , spoken from the same point of prophetic foresight, 2 Timothy 3:0 .]. Some (even Wiesinger) have supposed the Apostle to refer to some prophetic passage of the O. T., or to the general testimony of the O. T. prophecies (Daniel 7:25 ; Daniel 8:23 ; Dan 11:30 ), or those of our Lord (Matthew 24:4 ff., Mat 24:11 ), or of the Apostles (2 Thessalonians 2:3 ff. 1 John 2:18 . 2 Peter 3:3 . Jud 1:18 ), or all these combined. But in the two former cases, we should hardly have had  τὸ πνεῦμα λέγει , but ἡ γραφή , or ὁ κύριος , or the like;  τὸ πνεῦμα implying rather the present agency of the Spirit: and the latter is only a less clear way of putting the explanation given above: for why should writings be referred to, when the living men were yet testifying in the power of the Spirit among them? Besides, see the way in which such written prophecies  are referred to, in Jud 1:17 )  expressly (‘plainly,’ ‘in so many words:’  ῥητῶς is a postclassical word, found once in Polyb. (iii. 23.5: given by Schweigh., Lex., and Palm and Rost, wrongly, ii. 23. 5; and by Liddell and Scott, in conseq.,  Polyb. without a reference), ὑπὲρ δὲ Σικελίας τἀναντία διαστέλλονται  ῥητῶς , and often in later writers cf. examples in Wetst., especially Sext. Empir., ὁ Ξενοφῶν ἐν τοῖς ἀπομνημονεύμασι  ῥητῶς φησιν , ἀπαρνεῖσθαι αὐτὸν ( τὸν Σωκράτην ) τὸ φυσικόν ; see also Plut. Brut. 29),  saith, that in after times (not as E. V. ‘in  the latter times ,’ which though not quite so strong as ‘in the  last times ,’ yet gives the idea of close connexion with them: whereas here the Apostle speaks only of times subsequent to those in which he was writing: see the difference in 2 Timothy 3:1 . and compare Act 20:29 )  certain men (not the false teachers: rather, those who will be the result of their false teaching)  shall depart (or decline: not by formal apostasy, or the danger would not be that which it is here represented: but subjectively, declining in their own minds and lives from holding Christ in simplicity)  from the faith (objective the doctrine which faith embraces, as so often),  giving heed to (see reff.: the participle contains the reason and process of their declension)  seducing spirits (  πνεύμασιν , as Huther remarks, is in contrast with  τὸ πνεῦμα , 1 Timothy 4:1 ; it is to be understood as in 1 John 4:1 ; 1 John 4:6 , in which last verse we have the cognate expression τὸ πνεῦμα τῆς πλάνης . Wolf’s ‘spiritualibus seductoribus,’ or ‘doctoribus seducentibus’ is quite inadmissible. The spirits are none other than the spirits of evil, tempting, energizing in, seducing, those who are described, just as  the Spirit directs and dwells in those who abide in the faith),  and teachings of dæmons (doctrines taught by, suggested by, evil spirits: gen. subjective: cf. σοφία δαιμονιώδης , James 3:15 , and Tert. de præscr. hær. c. 7, vol. ii. p. 19, “Hæ sunt doctrinæ hominum et dæmoniorum, prurientibus auribus natæ:” see Colossians 2:22 . So Thdrt. (Chrys. is vague), and the fathers generally: (Grot., vaguely,) Wolf, Bengl, Olsh., De W., Huther, Wiesinger, Conyb., Ellic. Two wrong interpretations have been given: (1) understanding the genitive as objective, ‘  teachings concerning dœmons ;’so Mede, Works, p. 626 ff., supporting his view by διδαχαὶ βαπτισμῶν , Hebrews 6:2 , &c., and Heydenreich (‘a characteristic designation of the essene-gnostic false teachers, who had so much to say of the higher spirit-world, of the æons, &c.:’ in Huther) but against the context, in which there is no vestige of allusion to idolatry (notwithstanding all that is alleged by Mede), but only to a false and hypocritical asceticism: (2) applying  δαιμονίων to the false teachers, who would seduce the persons under description (so Mosheim, Mack, al., and even Calvin ‘quod perinde est ac si dixisset, attendentes pseudo-prophetis et diabolicis eorum dogmatibus’); but this is without example harsh and improbable. The student may refer, as a curiosity, to the very learned disquisition of Mede on these δαιμόνια : not merely for the really valuable information which it contains, but also as a lesson, to assure the ground well, before he begins to build with such pains)  in the (following in the …,  ἐν giving the element, in which: see below)  hypocrisy of those who speak lies (the whole clause belongs to  τινὲς ἀποστήσονται , the previous one, προσέχοντες … δαιμονίων , being complete in itself. Bengel gives the construction well: ‘construe cum  deficient, Hypocrisis ea quæ est  falsiloquorum , illos auferet.  τινές ,  aliqui , illi sunt seducti;  falsiloqui , seductores: falsiloquorum, genitivus, unice pendet ab  hypocrisi . τὸ  falsiloquorum dicit relationem ad alios: ergo antitheton est in  ἰδίαν ,  sua. ’ This is much better than to join the gen. ψευδολόγων with δαιμονίων (so Wegscheider and Conyb., but understanding that which is said of the dæmons as meant of those who follow them), or with διδασκαλίαις (Estius, ‘doctrinis, inquam, hominum in hypocrisi loquentium mendacium’), as making the sentence which follows apply to the false  teachers (cf. κωλυόντων ), whom the τινές follow. And so De W., Huther, Wiesinger: and Mede himself, book iii. ch. 2, p. 677),  of men branded (with the foul marks of moral crime: so Cie, Catil. i. 6, ‘quæ nota domesticæ turpitudinis non inusta vitæ tuæ est?’ Livy, iii. 51, ‘ne Claudiæ geuti eam inustam maculam vellent:’ Plato, Gorg. 524 E, ὁ Ῥαδάμανθυς … πολλάκις τοῦ μεγάλου βασιλέως ἐπιλαβόμενος ἢ ἄλλου ὁτουοῦν βασιλέως ἢ δυνάστου κατεῖδεν οὐδὲν ὑγιὲς ὂν τῆς ψυχῆς , ἀλλὰ διαμεμαστιγωμένην καὶ οὐλῶν μεστὴν ὑπὸ ἐπιορκιῶν καὶ ἀδικίας . See more examples in Wetst. and Kypke.
	 καυτηριάζω is properly to burn in a mark with a καυτήρ , a branding-instrument of hot iron. Thl. explains: ἐπεὶ συνίσασιν ἑαυτοῖς ἀκαθαρσίαν πολλήν , διὰ τοῦτο τὸ συνειδὸς αὐτῶν ἀνεξαλείπτους ἔχει τοὺς καυτῆρας τοῦ ῥυπαροῦ βίου . Thdrt. gives an explanation more ingenious than correct: κεκ . δὲ τὴν ἰδ . συν . αὐτοὺς κέκληκε , τὴν ἐσχάτην αὐτῶν ἀπαλγησίαν διδάσκων . ὁ γὰρ τοῦ καυτῆρος τόπος νεκρωθεὶς τὴν προτέραν αἴσθησιν ἀποβάλλει . The idea rather seems to be as Bengel, “qui ipsi in sua sibi conscientia, inustis ei perfidiæ maculis, infames sunt:” cf. Titus 1:15 ; Titus 3:11 , where αὐτοκατάκριτος seems to express much the same. Or, as Ellic., ‘they knew the brand they bore, and yet, with a show of outward sanctity (compare ὑποκρίσει ), they strove to beguile and seduce others, and make them as bad as themselves.’ The genitive still depends on  ὑποκρίσει , as does  κωλυόντων also)  on their own conscience (  τὴν ἰδίαν , as Beng. above these false teachers are not only the organs of foul spirits, but are themselves hypocritical liars, with  their own consciences seared by crime. The accusative is one of reference: cf. ch. 1Ti 6:5 ),  hindering from marrying (this description has been thought by some to fit the Jewish sects of Essenes and Therapeutæ, who abstained from marriage, Jos. B. J. ii. 8. 2: Philo de vit. contempl. 4, 8, vol. ii. pp. 476, 482: cf. Colossians 2:18 ff. But as De W. remarks, the abstinence by and by mentioned seems too general to suit the idea that they were Jews (see below): besides that the Epistle does not describe them as  present but as  to come in after times), (  commanding ) (see a like ellipsis (  zengma ), in which a second but logically necessary verb is omitted, and must be supplied from the context, in ch. 1 Timothy 2:12 , 1 Corinthians 14:34 . Bengel quotes a similar construction from Chrys., ταῦτα λεγω , οὐ κηδεύειν κωλύων , ἀλλὰ μετὰ συμμετρίας τοῦτο ποιεῖν )  to abstain from meats (compare Colossians 2:16 . It does not appear here from what sort of food this abstinence would be enjoined: but probably the eating of flesh is alluded to. Euseb. H. E. iv. 29, quotes from Irenæus (i. 28. 1, p. 107), ἀπὸ Σατυρνίνου καὶ Μαρκίωνος οἱ καλούμενοι Ἐγκρατεῖς ἀγαμίαν ἐκήρυξαν , ἀθετοῦντες τὴν ἀρχαίαν πλάσιν τοῦ θεοῦ , καὶ ἠρεμα κατηγοροῦντες τοῦ ἄῤῥεν καὶ θῆλυ εἰς γένεσιν ἀνθρώπων πεποιηκότος · καὶ τῶν λεγομένων παρ ʼ αὐτοῖς ἐμψύχων ἀποχὴν εἰσηγήσαντο , ἀχαριστοῦντες τῷ πάντα πεποιηκότι θεῷ . These seem to be the persons here pointed at: and though the announcement of their success in after time is prophetic, we may fairly suppose that the seeds of their teaching were being sown as the Apostle wrote. The existence of gnosticism in its earlier form is certainly implied in ch. 1 Timothy 6:20 ; and in 2 Timothy 2:17-18 , we find that denial of the resurrection which characterized all the varieties of subsequent gnosticism. See the whole subject discussed in the Prolegg. ch. 7. § i. 12 ff.),  which God made for participation with thanksgiving for (dat. commodi)  those who believe, and have received the (full)  knowledge of the truth . This last description of the worthy partakers of God’s bounties is well illustrated by Calvin: ‘Quid ergo? annon solem suum quotidie oriri facit Deus super bonos et malos ( Mat 5:45 )? annon ejus jussu terra impiis panem producit? annon ejus benedictione etiam pessimi aluntur? est enim universale illud beneficium quod David Psa 104:14 decantat. Respondeo, Paulum de usu licito hic agere, cujus ratio coram Deo nobis constat. Hujus minime compotes sunt impii, propter iropuram conscientiam quæ omnia contaminat, quemadmodum habetur ad Titum, 1 Timothy 1:15 . Et sane, proprie loquendo, solis filiis suis Deus totum mundum et quicquid in mundo est destinavit, qua ratione etiam vocantur mundi hæredes. Nam hac conditione constitute initio fuerat Adam omnium dominus, ut sub Dei obedientia maneret. Proinde rebellio adversus Deum jure quod illi collatum fuerat, ipsi una cum posteris spoliavit. Qnouiam autem subjecta sunt Christo omnia, ejus beneficio in integrum restituimur, idque per fidem … Posteriore membro definit quos vocat fideles, nempequi notitiam habent sanæ doctrinæ.’ On  μετὰ εὐχαριστίας , sec 1 Corinthians 10:30 ; and below on 1 Timothy 4:4 .