 12 16 .]  General exhortations to Timotheus .  Let no one despise thy youth (as to the construction, Chrys. ( μηδεὶς διὰ τὴν νεότητα καταφρονήσῃ σον ), Leo, Mack, Matthies, take  σοῦ as immediately governed by καταφρονήσῃ , and  τῆς νεότητος as a second genitive ‘  thee for thy youth .’ But though I cannot think with Huther that such a construction would be illegitimate (for in what does καταφρονέω differ in logical reference from κατηγορέω ? cf. εἰ … παρανόμων … ἤμελλον αὐτοῦ κατηγορεῖν , Demosth. Meid. p. 515. 26), yet 1Ti 4:15 seems to rule in favour of the simpler construction, where we have  σου preceding its governing substantive with no such ambiguity. As to the matter of the  youth of Timotheus, see Prolegg. ch. vii. § ii. 35, note; and remember, that his age relative to that of the Apostle himself, whose place he was filling, rather than his absolute age, is evidently that which is here meant. By the ἕως ἔρχομαι , we see that this comparison was before the Apostle’s mind. The interpretation of Bengel, ‘ “talem te gere quem nemo possit tanquam juvenem contemnere:” libenter id faciunt senes inanes,’ thus endeavouring to eliminate the  fact , of Timotheus’s youth, is forced, and inconsistent with the  τῆς . It is quite true (cf. what follows ἀλλὰ τύπος γίνου , &c.) that the exhortation is to  him , not to the Ephesian church: but it is grounded on the  fact of his youth , in whatever light that fact is to be interpreted);  but become (by gaining their respect for the following acts and qualities)  a pattern of the believers (the comma after  πιστῶν , in which I have followed Lachmann, gives more force and independence to the clause adversative to μηδεὶς κ . τ . λ ., and then leaves the specifications to follow),  in word (the whole of thine utterances, in public and private:  ἐν λόγῳ is elsewhere contrasted, as in Colossians 3:17 , with ἐν ἔργῳ ),  in behaviour (the other outward sign of the life within: ἐν ἔργῳ , Col. l. c., but expressing more ‘in quotidiana consuetudine,’ as Beng. The ἀναστροφή may testify, in cases where no actual deed is done),  in love, in faith (the two great springs of Christian conduct, the one it is true set in motion by the other, cf. Galatians 5:6 , πίστις δι ʼ ἀγάπης ἐνεργουμένη , but both, leading principles of the whole man),  in purity (probably, not chastity, in the more restricted sense, though in ch. 1Ti 5:2 it certainly has this meaning from the context: but in the wider and higher meaning which the context here requires, all believers being in view, of general holiness and purity. Cf. for this, ἁγνός , ch. 1 Timothy 5:22 ; 2 Corinthians 7:11 ; James 3:17 , ἁγνίζω , James 4:8 ; 1 Peter 1:22 . From these passages the quality would appear definable as  simplicity of holy motive followed out in  consistency of holy action ).