 9 .]  Faithful is the saying, and worthy of all acceptation (see on ch. 1 Timothy 1:15 . The words refer to what  follows , not as Heinr. to ch. 1 Timothy 3:16 , nor as De W., Huther, Wies., al., to what went immediately before: see on γάρ below. The connexion is with καὶ τῆς μελλούσης . Piety has the promise of that life attached to it, according to the well-known Christian saying which follows. Otherwise 1Ti 4:10 comes in disjointedly and unaccountably):  for (  γάρ is introduced from a mixture of two constructions, rendering a reason for καὶ τῆς μελλούσης , as if πιστὸς ὁ λόγος had not been inserted. We have the same construction in 2 Timothy 2:11 , where Huther, though he regards the γάρ as decisive against it here, refers the πιστὸς ὁ λόγος to what follows) to this end (viz. the σωτηρία implied in that which follows, introduced by ὅτι , as in reff.: thus alone can the saying as a πιστὸς λόγος cohere together: and so Thdrt., Thl., Beza, Grot., Beng., Mosh., Wegsch., Leo, Wahl: not, as De W., Huther, Ellic., al., for the obtaining of the promise mentioned above (De W. claims Thdrt. and Bengel for this meaning, but wrongly: the former says, τί δηποτε , &c. εἰ μὴ τίς ἐστι τῶν πόνων ἀντίδοσις ; ὰλλὰ γάρ ἐστιν ἀντίδοσις . ἀΐδιος γὰρ θεὸς ἀγωνοθετεῖ τοῖς ἀθλοῦσι , καὶ πάντων ἐστὶν ἀνθρώπων σωτὴρ κ . τ . λ .; and the latter, ‘hoc nomine, hoc fine, hac spe,’ referring to ἠλπίκαμεν ))  we (Christians in general) [  both ]  toil (more than labour ( ἐργαζόμεθα ): it gives the idea of ‘toil and moil:’ see reff.)  and suffer reproach (climax: we might toil and be had in honour, but as it is, we have both fatigue and shame to bear. The reading ἀγωνιζόμεθα is very strongly supported, but appears to have been introduced from Col 1:29 ),  because we have fixed our hope (the same perfect occurs Joh 5:45 ; 2 Corinthians 1:10 ; ch. 1 Timothy 5:5 , 1 Timothy 6:17 ; it refers to the time when the strong resolve and waiting began, and to its endurance since that time) on (for construction see reff., and Ellicott’s note here. Thus in Polyb. i. 12. 6, τὰς … ἀγοράς … ἐφ ʼ οἷς εἶχον τὰς μεγίστας ἐλπίδας ) the living (inserted for emphasis and solemnity, to bring out the fact that the God in whom we trust is a veritable personal agent, not a creature of the imagination)  God, who is the Saviour of all men (cf. ch. 1 Timothy 2:4 ; Titus 2:11 ; His will is that all men should be saved, and He has made full and sufficient provision for the salvation of all: so that, as far as salvation stands in Him, He is the Saviour of all men. And it is in virtue of this universality of salvation offered by God, that we have rested our hopes on Him and become πιστοί ),  especially them that believe (in these alone does that universal salvation, which God has provided, become actual. He is the same σωτήρ towards and of all: but these alone appropriate His σωτηρία . Bengel rightly observes, ‘Latet nervus argumenti a minori ad majus:’ but he applies the σωτὴρ πάντων to  this life , and μάλιστα πιστῶν to the life to come. So also Chrys.: εἰ δὲ τοὺς ἀπίστους σώζει ἐνταῦθα , πολλῷ μᾶλλον τοὺς πιστοὺς ἐκεῖ .  But this does not seem to suit the context, nor the higher sense to which σωτήρ is every where in the N. T. confined, and most especially in these Epistles, where it occurs very frequently. The true ‘argumentum a minori ad majus’ lies in this “if God be thus willing for all to be saved, how much more shall he save them that put their trust in Him.” For the expression, see reff., and especially Gal 6:10 ).