 4, 5 .]  Reason for the above assertion .  Because (  ὅτι is more the objective,  γάρ , which follows, the subjective causal particle:  ὅτι introduces that which rests on a patent fact, as here on a Scripture quotation,  γάρ , that which is in the writer’s mind, and forms part of his own reasoning)  every thing which God has made is good (in allusion to ref. Gen. See also Romans 14:14 ; Rom 14:20 );  and nothing (which God has made)  is to be rejected (Wetst. cites Hom. Il. γ . 65, οὔτοι  ἀπόβλητ  ʼ ἑστὶ θεῶν ἐρικυδέα δῶρα on which the Schol.,  ἀπόβλητα , ἀποβολῆς ἄξια · τὰ ὑπὸ θεῶν , φησί , δεδομένα δῶρα οὐκ ἔστι μὲν ἀρνήσασθαι )  if received with thanksgiving (“properly, even without this condition, all things are pure: but he did not rise to this abstraction, because he was regarding meats not  per se , but  in their use , and this latter may become impure by an ungodly frame of mind.” De Wette):  for (see on ὅτι and γάρ above)  it (this  subject is gathered out of the preceding clause by implication, and = ‘every κτίσμα which is partaken of with thanksgiving’)  is hallowed (more than ‘  declared pure ,’ or even than ‘  rendered pure :’ the latter it does not want, the former falls far short of the work of the assigned agents. The emphasis is on  ἁγιάζεται , and a new particular is introduced by it not purity merely, but  holiness , fitness for the godly usage of Christian men. To this, which is more than mere making or declaring pure, it is set apart by the εὐχαριστία ; so that the minus is proved by the majus. There is certainly a slight trace of reference to the higher consecration in the Lord’s Supper. The same word εὐχαριστία is common to both. Ordinary meals are set apart for ordinary Christian use by asking a blessing on them:  that meal , for move than ordinary use, by asking on it its own peculiar blessing)  by means of the word of God and intercession (  what ‘word of God?’ how to be understood? treating the plamer word first, the  ἔντευξις is evidently intercession (see on ch. 1Ti 2:1 )  on behalf of the κτίσμα  partaken of that it may be ‘sanctified to our use.’ This, bound on as  λογου θεοῦ is to εντεύξεως by the non-repetition of the preposition, may serve to guide us to its meaning. And first, negatively. It cannot mean any thing which does not form part of the εὐχαριστία : such as God’s word in the Scripture just cited (Mack), or in any other place (Grot., al.): or God’s word in the foundation-truths of Christianity. Then, positively: it must mean in some sense the εὐχαριστία , or something in it. But not, as Wahl and Leo, the ‘word addressed to God,’ ‘oratio ad Deum facta,’ which would be an unprecedented meaning for λόγος θεοῦ : the only way open for us is, that the εὐχαριστία itself, or some part of it, is in some sense  the word of God . This may be (1) by its consisting in whole or in part of Scripture words, or (2) by the effusion of a Christian man, speaking in the power of God’s Spirit, being known as λόγος θεοῦ . This latter is perhaps justified by the reff.: but still it seems to me hardly probable, and I should prefer the former. (So Ellic. also.) It would generally be the case, that any form of Christian thanksgiving before meat would contain words of Scripture, or at all events thoughts in exact accordance with them: and such utterance of God’s revealed will, bringing as it would the assembled family and their meal into harmony with Him, might well be said ἁγιάζειν the βρώματα on the table for their use. Many of the Commentators quote from the Constt. Ap. vii. 49, p. 1057, Migne, the following grace before meat, used in the primitive times: εὐλογητὸς εἶ κύριε ὁ τρέθων με ἐκ νεότητός μου , ὁ διδοὺς τροφὴν πάσῃ σαρκί · πλήρωσον χαρᾶς καὶ εὐφροσύνης τὰς καρδίας ἡμῶν , ἵνα πάντοτε πᾶσαν αὐτάρκειαν ἔχοντες , περισσεύωμεν εἰς πᾶν ἔργον ἀγαθὸν ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ τῷ κυρίῳ ἡμῶν , δι ʼ οὗ σοὶ δόξα τιμὴ καὶ κράτος εἰς τους αἰῶνας , ἀμήν . Here almost every clause is taken from some expression of Scripture).