 8 .]  for the exercise (gymnastic training: see below)  of the body is to small extent (‘  for but little ,’ in reference only to a small department of a man’s being: not as in ref. James, ‘  for a short time ,’ as the contrast πρὸς πάντα below shews)  profitable (to what sort of exercise does he allude? Ambr., Thom.-Aq., Lyra, Calv., Grot., Heydenr., Leo, Matthies, al., take it as alluding to corporal austerities for religion’s sake: ‘hoc nomine appellat quæcunque religiouis causa suscipiuntur externæ actiones, ut sunt vigiliæ, longa inedia, humi cubatio, et similia,’ Calv. But against this are two considerations: 1) that these are not now in question, but the immediate subject is the excellence of being trained and thoroughly exercised in piety: 2) that if they were, it would hardly be consistent with his previous severe characterization of these austerities, 1 Timothy 4:3 , to introduce them thus with even so much creditable mention.
	Wiesinger has taken up this meaning again and contended very strongly for it, maintaining that the πρὸς ὀλίγον ὠφέλιμος must be  moral , not corporeal. But it may fairly be answered, if it be moral, then it cannot be said to be πρὸς ὀλίγον , for it would contribute to εὐσέβεια . And indeed he may be refuted on his own ground: he says that the σωματ . γυμνασία  must belong to εὐσεβεια : for that if it meant bodily exercise merely, πνευματικὴ γυμνασία , not εὐσέβεια , would be the proper contrast to it. But surely we may say, if σωματικὴ γυμν , does  belong to εὐσέβεια , how can it form a contrast to it? On  his hypothesis, not on the other, we should require πνευματικὴ γυμνασία as the contrast. A part cannot be thus eontrasted with the whole.
	It is therefore far better to understand the words, as Chrys., Till., Thdrt. ( οἱ τῆς τοῦ σώματος , φησίν , εὐεξίας ἐπιμελούμενοι πρὸς ὀλίγον ταύτης ἀπολαύουσιν ), Pel., Corn.-a-lap., Estius, Wolf, al., Bengel, Mack, De W., Huther, of mere gymnastic bodily exercise, of which the Apostle says, that it has indeed its uses, but those uses partial only. Bengel adds, perhaps more ingeniously than conclusively, “Videtur Timotheus juvenis interdum usus fuisse aliqua exercitatione corporis (ch. 1Ti 5:23 ) quam Paulus non tam prohibet quam non laudat.” Two curious interpretations of the expression have been given; one by Chrys., as a sort of afterthought: ὃ δὲ λέγει , τοιοῦτόν ἐστι · μηδὲ εἰς γυμνασίαν ποτε καταθῇς σεαυτὸν διαλεγόμενος πρὸς ἐκείνους , ἀλλὰ ταῦτα τοῖς αὑτοῦ παραίνει . οὐ γάρ ἐστι πρὸς τοὺς διεστραμμένους μαχόμενον ὀνῆσαί τί ποτε , the other by Braun (Selecta sacra i. 10. 156, cited by Huther), who understands by it the ceremonial law):  but piety (the first member of the antithesis contained the  means , ἡ σωμστικὴ γυμνασία : this, the end, εὐσέβεια ; that which is sought by γυμνασία πρὸς εὐσέβειαν )  is profitable for all things (not one portion only of a man’s being, but every portion of it, bodily and spiritual, temporal and eternal),  having (seeing that it has)  promise of the life (we may, as far as the construction is concerned, take ζωῆς , as Ellic., abstract,  of life , and then divide it off into τῆς νῦν and τῆς μελλούσης . But see below),  which is now and which is to come (how is the genitive  ζωῆς to be taken? is it the objective genitive, giving the substance of the promise, LIFE, in its highest sense? in this case it would be ἐν τῷ νῦν αἰῶνι καὶ ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι . And seeing it is not that, but  τῆς νῦν κ  .   τῆς μελλούσης , we should have to understand  ζωή in two different meanings, long and happy life here, and eternal life hereafter it bears a promise of this life and of the life to come. This to say the least is harsh. It would be better therefore to take  ἐπαγγελία as ‘  the promise ,’ in the sense of ‘the chief blessedness promised by God,’ the blessed contents of His promise, whatever they be, and ζωῆς as the possessive genitive: the best promise belonging to this life and to that which is to come. It may be said, this also is harsh; and to some extent I acknowledge it, it is not however a harshness in  thought , as the other, but only in construction, such as need not surprise us in these Epistles. The concrete ἐπαγγελία instead of the abstract is already familiar to us, Luke 24:19 ; Acts 1:4 ; Acts 13:32 , al.: and the possessive genitive after ἐπαγγ . is justified by Romans 15:8 , ἑπαγγ . τῶν πατέρων , and by the arrangement of the sentence).