12. Therefore—to say all in
	one word. 
	all things whatsoever ye
	would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them—the same
	thing and in the same way. 
	for this is the law and the
	prophets—"This is the substance of all relative duty; all
	Scripture in a nutshell." Incomparable summary! How well called
	"the royal law!" (James 2:8;
	compare Romans 13:9). It is true
	that similar maxims are found floating in the writings of the
	cultivated Greeks and Romans, and naturally enough in the Rabbinical
	writings. But so expressed as it is here—in immediate connection
	with, and as the sum of such duties as has been just enjoined,
	and such principles as had been before taught—it is to be found
	nowhere else. And the best commentary upon this fact is, that never
	till our Lord came down thus to teach did men effectually and widely
	exemplify it in their practice. The precise sense of the maxim is
	best referred to common sense. It is not, of course, what—in our
	wayward, capricious, gasping moods—we should wish that men
	would do to us, that we are to hold ourselves bound to do to them;
	but only what—in the exercise of an impartial judgment, and putting
	ourselves in their place—we consider it reasonable that they should
	do to us, that we are to do to them. 
	Romans 13:9- :. CONCLUSION AND
	EFFECT OF THE SERMON
	ON THE MOUNT. 
	We have here the application of
	the whole preceding discourse. 
	Conclusion of the Sermon on the
	Mount (Matthew 7:13-27).
	"The righteousness of the kingdom," so amply described,
	both in principle and in detail, would be seen to involve
	self-sacrifice at every step. Multitudes would never face
	this. But it must be faced, else the consequences will be fatal. This
	would divide all within the sound of these truths into two classes:
	the many, who will follow the path of ease and self-indulgence—end
	where it might; and the few, who, bent on eternal safety above
	everything else, take the way that leads to it—at whatever cost.
	This gives occasion to the two opening verses of this application.