 11.   ἐγήγερται ] Not merely a word of course, but especially used of prophets and judges, see reff., and once of our Saviour Himself, Acts 5:30 .
	 γεννητοῖς is most likely masculine. See reff.
	 ὁ δὲ μικρότερος ] This has been variously rendered and understood. Chrysostom’s interpretation is as follows: “ ὁ δὲ μικρότερος , ἐν τῇ βασιλείᾳ τῶν οὐρανῶν μείζων αὐτοῦ ἐστι .” μικρότερος , κατὰ τὴν ἡλικίαν καὶ κατὰ τὴν τῶν πολλῶν δόξαν , καὶ γὰρ ἔλεγον αὐτὸν φάγον καὶ οἰνοπότην · καὶ “ οὐχ οὗτός ἐστιν ὁ τοῦ τέκτονος υἱός ;” καὶ πανταχοῦ αὐτὸν ἐξηυτέλιζον . Hom. xxxvii. 2, p. 416. And a little afterwards: περὶ ἑαυτοῦ λέγων εἰκότως κρύπτει τὸ πρόσωπον διὰ τὴν ἔτι κρατοῦσαν ὑπόνοιαν καὶ τὸ μὴ δόξαι περὶ ἑαυτοῦ μέγα τι λέγειν · καὶ γὰρ πολλαχοῦ φαίνεται τοῦτο ποιῶν . τί δέ ἐστιν “ ἐν τῇ βασιλείᾳ τῶν οὐρανῶν ;” ἐν τοῖς πνευματικοῖς καὶ τοῖς κατὰ τὸν οὐρανὸν ἅπασι . καὶ τὸ εἰπεῖν δὲ “ οὐκ ἐγήγερται ἐν γεννητοῖς γυναικῶν μείζων Ἰωάννου ” ἀντιδιαστέλλοντος ἦν ἑαυτῷ τὸν Ἰωάννην , καὶ οὕτως ἑαυτὸν ὑπεξαιροῦντος . εἰ γὰρ καὶ γεννητὸς γυναικὸς ἦν αὐτός , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ οὕτως ὡς Ἰωάννης · οὐ γὰρ ψιλὸς ἄνθρωπος ἦν , οὐδὲ ὁμοίως ἀνθρώπῳ ἐτέχθη , ἀλλὰ ξένον τινὰ τρόπον καὶ παράδοξον , ib. 2, 3, p. 417. So also Euthymius and Theophylact: but such an interpretation is surely adverse to the spirit of the whole discourse. We may certainly say that our Lord in such a passage as this would not designate Himself as ὁ μικρότερος compared with John, in any sense: nor again is it our Lord’s practice to speak of Himself as one ἐν τῇ βασιλείᾳ τῶν οὐρανῶν , or of His own attributes as belonging to or dependent on that new order of things which this expression implies, and which was  in Him rather than He in it. Besides, the bare use of the comparative ὁ μικρότερος , with its reference left to be inferred, is, unless I am mistaken, unprecedented. If this had been the meaning, we should surely have had αὐτοῦ after μικρότερος . Again, the analogy of such passages as Matthew 5:19 ; Matthew 18:1 , would lead us to connect the preceding adjective μικρότερος with ἐν τῇ β . τ . οὐ ., and not the following.
	The other, the usual interpretation, I am convinced, is the right one:  but he that is least in the kingdom of heaven, is greater than he. The comparative with the article is not put for the superlative, although in English we are obliged to render it so, but signifies ‘  he that is less than all the rest ’ (Winer, § 35. 4); and here is generic, of  all the inferior ones.
	There is very likely an allusion to Zechariah 12:8 ; “He that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David.”
	Thus the parallelism is complete:  John , not inferior to any born of women but  these, even the least of them , are born of  another birth (John 1:12-13 ; Joh 3:5 ).  John , the nearest to the King and the Kingdom  standing on the threshold but  never having himself entered; these , ἐν τῇ βασιλείᾳ , subjects and citizens and indwellers of the realm, ὧν τὸ πολίτευμα ἐν οὐρανοῖς . He, the  friend of the Bridegroom; they, however weak and unworthy members,  His Body, and His Spouse .
	Meyer, giving in substance the above interpretation, believes that αὐτοῦ , i.e. Ἰωάν . τοῦ β ., is to be supplied after μικρότερος . This would be unobjectionable  in sense , but is it, in usage? See reff., and remember that ἐν τ . βασ .… is equivalent in  meaning to  τῶν ἐν τ . βασιλείᾳ . Maldonatus (cited by Meyer) quotes the logical axiom, ‘minimum maximi est majus maximo minimi.’