 25, 26. ] This is certainly a continuation of the foregoing discourse; and the  ἀποκριθείς  , which seems to have nothing to refer to, does in reality refer to the words which have immediately preceded. The  ἐν ἐκείνῳ τῷ κ  . is not  chronological , but gives additional solemnity to what follows. There may have been a slight break in the discourse; the older interpreters, and Meyer, insert the return of the Apostles; but I do not see any necessity for it. The whole ascription of praise is an  answer: an answer to the mysterious dispensations of God’s Providence above recounted. With regard to the arrangement in Luke, see note on Luke 10:21 .
	 ἐξομολογοῦμαι ] Not merely, ‘  I praise Thee ,’ but ‘  I confess to Thee, ’ ‘  I recognize the justice of Thy doings; ’ viz. in the words  ναὶ ὁ πατὴρ ὅτι κ . τ . λ . Stier remarks that this is the  first public mention by our Lord of His Father; the words in ch. Mat 10:32-33 having been addressed to the twelve (but see Joh 2:16 ). We have two more instances of such a public address to His Father, John 11:41 ; John 12:28 ; and again Luke 23:34 . It is to be observed that He does not address the Father as  His Lord, but as Lord  of heaven and earth; as ὁ τὰ πάντα ἐνεργῶν κατὰ τὴν βουλὴν τοῦ θελήματος αὐτοῦ , Ephesians 1:11 .
	 ἔκρυψας  .…   ἀπεκάλυψας ]  didst hide, and  didst reveal in the deeper and spiritual sense of the words; the time pointed at being that in the far past, when the divine decrees as to such hiding and revealing were purposed. See 1 Corinthians 2:9-12 .
	 ταῦτα  ,  these mysterious arrangements , by which the sinner is condemned in his pride and unbelief, the humble and childlike saved, and God justified when He saves and condemns. These are ‘revealed’ to those who can in a simple and teachable spirit, as νήπιοι , obey the invitation in Matthew 11:28-30 , but ‘hidden’ from the wise and clever of this world, who attempt their solution by the inadequate instrumentality of the mere human understanding. See 1 Corinthians 1:26-31 .