 27. ] In two other places only in the three first Gospels (besides the similar passage, Luk 10:22 ) does the expression ὁ υἱός occur: see reff. The spirit of this verse, and its form of expression, are quite those of the Gospel of John; and it serves to form a link of union between the three synoptic Gospels and the fourth, and to point to the vast and weighty mass of discourses of the Lord which are not related except by John. We may also observe another point of union:  this very truth ( Joh 3:35 ) had been part of the testimony  borne to Jesus by the Baptist and its repetition here, in a discourse of which the character and office of the Baptist is the suggestive groundwork, is a coincidence not surely without meaning. The verse itself is in the closest connexion with the preceding and following, and is best to be understood in that connexion:  πάντα μοι παρεδόθη [119] ἀπεκάλυψας αὐτά in Matthew 11:25 (on the tenses, see note above, Mat 11:25 ), only ἀπεκάλυψας could not be used of the Eternal Son, but παρεδόθη , for He is Himself the Revealer;  οὐδεὶς ἐπιγ  .   τ  .   υἱὸν  …, none but the Almighty Father has full entire possession of the mystery of the Person and Office of the Son: it is a depth hidden from all being but His, Whose Purposes are evolved in and by it:  οὐδὲ τ  .   πατέρα  .… nor does any fully apprehend, in the depths of his being, the love and grace of the Father, except the Son, and he to whom the Son, by the Eternal Spirit, proceeding from the Father and the Son, will reveal Him. (Certainly αὐτόν must be understood after ἀποκαλύψαι , as in E. V.; some, e.g. Stier, take ἀποκ . absolutely, ‘  make His revelations .’ Luther supplies ‘  it .’) See Colossians 2:2 . Some (from Mat 11:25 ) understand the Father as the Revealer here also; and undoubtedly He is so, but  mediately through the Son . See John 6:45-46 . Then in close connexion with the  ᾧ ἐὰν βούληται  , which by itself might seem to bring in an arbitrariness into the divine counsel, follows, by the eternal Son Himself, the δεῦτε πρός με πάντες , the wonderful and merciful generalization of the call to wisdom unto salvation. In Luke this verse is introduced by καὶ στραφεὶς πρὸς τοὺς μαθητὰς εἶπεν . The words however are of doubtful genuineness: see there.
	 [119] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .