 12. ] The sense of this verse has been much disputed. (1)  βιάζεται has been taken in a  middle sense; ‘forcibly introduces itself,’ ‘breaks in with violence ,’ as in the similar passage Luke 16:16 , πᾶς εἰς αὐτὴν βιάζεται . Certainly such a sense agrees better with εὐαγγελίζεται , which we find in Luke, than the passive explanation of βιάζεται : but it seems inconsistent with the latter half of the verse to say that  it breaks in by force , and then that  others break by force into it . (2) βιάζεται is taken  passively; so πόλεις … τὰς βεβιασμένας , Xen. Hell. 11:2. 15 (Meyer; which is however, like many of his citations, incorrect): ‘  suffereth violence ,’ E. V. And thus the construction of the verse is consistent: ‘and the violent take it by force.’ Believing this latter interpretation to be right, we now come to the question,  in what sense are these words spoken? Is βιάζεται in a good or a bad sense? Does it mean, ‘  is taken by force ,’ and the following, ‘  and men violently press in for their share of it, as for plunder; ’ or does it mean, ‘  is violently resisted, and violent men (viz. its opponents, the Scribes and Pharisees)  tear it to pieces? ’ This latter meaning bears no sense as connected with the discourse before us. The subject is not the  resistance made to the kingdom of heaven, but  the difference between a prophesied and a present kingdom of heaven. The fifteenth verse closes this subject, and the complaints of the arbitrary prejudices of ‘this generation’ begin with Matthew 11:16 . We conclude then that these words imply  From the days of John the Baptist until now (i.e. inclusively, from the beginning of his preaching),  the kingdom of heaven is pressed into, and violent persons eager, ardent multitudes  seize on it. Of the truth of this, notwithstanding our Lord’s subsequent reproaches for unbelief, we have abundant proof from the multitudes who followed, and outwent Him, and thronged the doors where He was, and would ( Joh 6:15 ) take Him by force (the very word ἁρπάζω being used) to make Him a king. But our Lord does not mention this so much to commend the βιασταί , as to shew the undoubted fact  that  ὁ ἐρχόμενος  was come: that the kingdom of heaven, which before had been the subject of distant prophecy, a closed fortress, a treasure hid, was now  undoubtedly upon earth ( Luk 17:21 and note), laid open to the entrance of men, spread out that all might take. Thus this verse connects with Matthew 11:28 , δεῦτε πρός με πάντες , and with Luke 16:16 , πᾶς εἰς αὐτὴν βιάζεται . Compare also with this throwing open of the kingdom of heaven for all to press into, the stern prohibition in Exodus 19:12-13 , and the comment on it in Hebrews 12:18-24 .