 5. ]  ἀποστερεῖτε is applied by Meyer to τῆς ἐξουσίας , by Billroth, al., to τῆς ὀφειλῆς ; De Wette suggests τοῦ σώματος , but prefers, and rightly, leaving its reference indefinite, to be supplied in the reader’s mind.
	 εἰ μή τι  , unless perchance (reff.).
	 ἄν ] “The verb is sometimes omitted after this particle, but always so that it can be supplied from a foregoing clause. So σὲ δ ʼ ἄλλη γυνὴ κεκτήσεται , σώφρων μὲν οὐκ ἂν μᾶλλον , εὐτυχὴς δ ʼ ἴσως .” Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 330.
	 ἐκ  , according to : the mutual agreement being the  ground , and the  measure , of the act.
	 ἵνα σχ  . ]  in order that ye may have undisturbed leisure for prayer . The pres. σχολάζητε of the rec. would refer to the  general habit , and would thus make τῇ προς ., ‘your  ordinary prayers, ’ being thus inconsistent with the direction given πρὸς καιρόν : the  aorist expresses this temporary purpose, and shews that the prayer meant is not ordinary but extraordinary,  seasons of urgent supplication .
	Both the alteration to the  present and the addition of τῇ νηστείᾳ καί , shew how such passages as this have been tampered with by the ascetics: see also Mark 9:29 .
	 ἦτε , not συνέρχησθε as it has been amended (nor - εσθε as it has been reamended), because εἶναι ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτό in this sense is the  normal state of the married. For the expression see reff.
	The subjunc. still depends on ἵνα the aim of the temporary separation is  not that you may keep apart , but for a certain end, and then  that you may be united again .
	 ἵνα μὴ πειρ  . ] Purpose of the re-union stated, by that which might happen did it not take place. πειράζῃ now is  present , not  aor ., as betokening the danger of a state of abstinence if continued.
	 ἀκρασία here, not that from ἄκρᾱτος (˘ ‾ ˘ ‾), which signifies  a bad mixture , as ἄκρ . ἀέρος , ‘insalubrity of the air:’ but that from ἀκρᾰτής (˘ ‾ ˘˘ ‾),  incontinence ; see reff.
	 διὰ τ  .   ἀκρ  .   ὑμ  ., on account of your incontinence , but hardly, as Meyer seems to think, with allusion to the proverbial fault of the Corinthians in this particular, which would be more definitely expressed, were it intended. The ὑμῶν is necessary to carry out the form of the sentence, corresponding to ὑμᾶς above.