 36 38 .] For seemliness’ sake: and consequently, if there be danger, by a father withholding his consent to his daughter’s marriage, of  unseemly treatment of her, let an exception be made in that case: but otherwise, if there be no such danger, it is better not to give her in marriage.  But (introduces an inconsistency with εὔσχημον )  if any one (any  father )  thinks that he is behaving unseemly towards his virgin daughter (viz. in setting before her a temptation to sin with her lover, or at least, bringing on her the imputation of it, by withholding his consent to her marriage. Or the reference may be to the supposed disgrace of having an unmarried daughter in his house),  if she be of full age (for  before that the imputation and the danger consequent on preventing the marriage would not be such as to bring in the ἀσχημοσύνη .
	The ἀκμή of woman is defined by Plato, Rep. v. p. 460, to be twenty years, that of man thirty. See Stanley’s note [and ref. Sir.]),  and thus it must be (i.e. and there is no help for it, they are bent on it beyond the power of dissuasion: depends not on ἐάν , as the indic. shews, but on εἰ .  οὕτως , viz. that they must marry.
	Theophyl. takes the words for the beginning of the  consequent sentence = οὕτως καὶ γενέσθω . But, as Meyer remarks, the words would thus be altogether superfluous, and after ὀφείλει , οὐχ ἁμαρτάνει would be inapplicable),  what he will (as his determination on this νομίζειν ),  let him do ( τὸ δοκοῦν πραττέτω , Theodoret),  he sinneth not ( ἁμαρτίας γὰρ ὁ γάμος ἐλεύθερος , Theodoret);  let them (his daughter and her lover)  marry . Some (Syr., Grot., al.) take ἀσχημονεῖν  passively, ‘thinks that he is (likely to be)  brought into disgrace as regards his daughter ,’ viz. by her seduction, or by her being despised as unmarried. But this would require (1) the future ἀσχημονήσειν . (2) ἐπί with a  dative , the  acc . shewing that the verb is one of  action : Meyer compares ἀσχημονεῖν εἴς τινα , Dion. Hal. ii. 26. And (3) the active sense of the verb is found in this Epistle (ref.), the only other place where it occurs in the N. T.