 26 .] The question of the marriage of  virgins is one involving the expediency of contracting marriage  in general : this he deals with now, on grounds connected with the then pressing necessity.
	 οὖν  , then , follows on γνώμ . δίδωμι , and introduces the γνώμη .
	 τοῦτο indicates what is coming, viz. τὸ οὕτως εἶναι .
	 καλόν , see note on 1 Corinthians 7:1 ;  the best way.
	 τὴν ἐνεστῶς  .   ἀνάγκ  . ]  the instant necessity : viz. that prophesied by the Lord, Matthew 24:8 ; Matthew 24:21 , &c.: which shall precede His coming: see especially 1Co 7:19 there: not,  the cares of marriage , as Theophyl., διὰ τὰς ἐν αὐτῷ δυσκολίας , κ . τὰ τοῦ γάμου ὀχληρὰ : nor  persecutions , as Photius in Œcum., al., which are only a  part of the apprehended troubles. These the Apostle regards as  instant, already begun : for this is the meaning of ἐνεστῶσαν , not  imminent, shortly to come : see reff. and Jos. Antt. xvi. 6. 2, τὸ ἔθνος τῶν Ἱουδαίων εὐχάριστον εὑρέθη , οὐ μόνον ἐν τῷ ἐνεστῶτι καιρῷ , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐν τῷ προγεγενημένῳ , where  all time future is evidently excluded. See note on 2 Thessalonians 2:2 , where this distinction is very important.
	 ὅτι καλ  .   ἀνθ  .… ] De Wette takes ὅτι as  because , understanding τοῦτο above = τὸ παρθένον εἶναι , ‘  that this (virginity)  is best on account of the instant necessity, because it is (  generally )  best for a man so to be (i.e. unmarried).’ But this seems constrained, and tautological, and the only rescue of it from the charge of tautology is found in the word ‘generally,’ which is not in the text. Far better, with Meyer and most interpreters, to view the sentence as an anacoluthon, begun with one construction, τοῦτο καλὸν ὑπάρχειν , and finished, without regard to this, when on account of the intervening words it became necessary to restate the καλόν , with another construction, ὅτι , &c. Thus we shall have it, literally rendered:  I think then this to be the best way on account of the instant necessity, that it is the best way for a man thus to be.
	 ἀνθρώπῳ , not as in 1 Corinthians 7:1 (which in its  outward form will not bear the wider meaning), but here purposely general, including those treated of, young females.
	 οὕτως = ὡς κἀγώ as 1Co 7:8 ? or perhaps ὡς ἐστίν , which seems better on account of the following context, 1 Corinthians 7:27 . This, in the case of the  unmarried , would amount to the other: and the case of  virgins is now that especially under consideration.