 29. ]  τοῦτο δέ φημι … q. d. ‘What I just now said, of marrying being no  sin , might dispose you to look on the whole matter as indifferent: my motive, the sparing you outward affliction, may be underrated in the importance of its bearing: but I will add this solemn consideration.’
	 ὁ καιρ  .   συνεστ  .   ἐστ  .   τὸ λοιπόν ]  The time that remains is short ; lit., ‘the time is shortened henceforth:’ i.e. the interval between now and the coming of the Lord has arrived at an extremely contracted period. These words have been variously misunderstood. (1) ὁ καιρός has been by some (Calvin, Estius, al.) interpreted ‘  the space of man’s life on earth :’ which, however true it may be, and however legitimate this  application of the Apostle’s words, certainly was not in his mind, nor is it consistent with  his usage of ὁ καιρός : see Romans 13:11 ; Ephesians 5:16 , or with that in the great prophecy of our Lord which is the key to this chapter, Luke 21:8 ; Mark 13:33 . (2) συνεσταλμένος has been understood as meaning  calamitosus (so Rosenm., Rückert, Olshausen, al.). But it never has this signification. In such passages as Malachi 3:6; Malachi 3:6 ; 1Ma 5:3 ; 2Ma 6:12 , παρακαλῶ .… μὴ συστέλλεσθαι διὰ τὰς συμφοράς : 3Ma 5:33 , τῇ ὁράσει … συνεστάλη , it has the meaning of  humbling, depressing , which would be obviously inapplicable to καιρός . The proper meaning of συστέλλεσθαι ,  to be contracted , is found in Diod. Sic. i. 41, διὸ καὶ τὸν Νεῖλον εὐλόγως κατὰ τὸν χειμῶνα μικρὸν εἶναι καὶ  συστέλλεσθαι . It is, as Schrader well renders it, ‘  in Kurzem sturzt die alte Welt zusammen .’ συστέλλεσθαι and συστολή are the regular grammatical words used of the  shortening of a syllable in prosody. (3) τὸ λοιπόν has been by some (Tertull. ad Uxorem i. 5 (vol. i. p. 1283), Jer [31] de perp. virg. B. V. M. adv. Helv. 20 (vol. ii. p. 227), on Ezekiel 7:13 (lib. ii., vol. v. p. 69), on Ecclesiastes 3:0 . (vol. iii. p. 410), Vulg., Erasm., Luther, Calvin, Estius; also E. V. and Lachm.)  joined to what follows; ‘it remains that both they ,’ &c. But thus ( α ) the sense of ἵνα will not be satisfied see below: ( β ) the usage of τὸ λοιπόν is against it, which would require it to  stand alone , and the sense  not to be carried on as it is in ‘  superest ut ,’ τὸ λοιπόν , ἵνα …, see reff. and Philippians 3:1 ; Philippians 4:8 ; (1 Thessalonians 4:1 ;) 2 Thessalonians 3:1 . ( γ ) The continuity of the passage would be very harshly broken: whereas by the other rendering all proceeds naturally. We have exactly parallel usages of τὸ λοιπόν in reff.
	 [31]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	 ἵνα καὶ  … ]  The end for which the time has been (by God) thus gathered up into a short compass:  in order that both they , &c.: i.e. in order that Christians, those who wait for and shall inherit the coming kingdom, may keep themselves loosed in heart from worldly relationships and employments: that, as Meyer, “the married may not fetter his interests to his wedlock, nor the mourner to his misfortunes, nor the joyous to his prosperity, nor the man of commerce to his gain, nor the user of the world to his use of the world.”
	This is the only legitimate meaning of ἵνα with the subj. The renderings which make it = ὅτε , ‘tempus … futurum cum ei qui uxores habent pares futuri sint non habentibus,’ Grot., or ‘ubi’ (local), are inadmissible. We may notice that according to this only right view of ἵνα , the clauses following are not  precepts of the Apostle , but the  objects as regards  us , of the  divine counsel in shortening the time .