 14 .]  Ground of the above precept .
	 ἡγίασται ] The meaning will best be apprehended by remembering (1) that  holiness , under the Gospel, answers to  dedication to God under the law; (2) that the ἡγιασμένοι under the Gospel are the  body of Christian men , dedicated to God, and thus become His in a peculiar manner: (3) that this being so, things belonging to, relatives inseparably connected with, the  people of God are said to be  hallowed by  their ἁγιότης : so Theophylact, οὐχ ὅτι ἅγιος γίνεται ὁ Ἕλλην . οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν ὅτι  ἅγιός ἐστιν  · ἀλλ ʼ,  ἡγίασται  · τουτέστι , τῇ ἁγιότητι τοῦ πιστοῦ νενίκηται . Chrysostom well shews the distinction between this case and that in ch. 1 Corinthians 6:15 , that being a connexion κατὰ τὴν ἀσέβειαν , in and under the condition of the  very state , in which the other party is  impure : whereas this is a connexion according to a pure and holy ordinance, by virtue of which, although the physical unity in both cases is the same, the  purity overbears the impurity .
	 ἐν γῇ γ  . ,  ἐν τῷ ἀδελ  . ]  in , i.e. his or her ἁγιότης is  situated in , rests in,  the other (see reff.: and note, ch. 1Co 6:2 ).
	 ἐπεὶ ἄρα ] as ref., but here elliptically:  since in that case (i.e. as understood, the  other alternative, the  non-hallowing ).
	 ἐστιν , not ἂν εἴη , nor ἦν [E. V.], but  pres. : because the supposed case is  assumed , and the ind. pres. used of what  has place on its assumption.
	 ἅγια ] as ἡγίασται above:  holy to the Lord . On this  fact, Christian children being holy , the argument is built. This being so, they being hallowed, because the children of Christians, it follows that  that union out of which they sprung, must  as such have the same hallowed character; i.e. that the  insanctity of the one parent is in it  overborne by the  sanctity of the other. The  fact of the children of Christians, God’s spiritual people,  being holy , is tacitly assumed as a matter of course, from the precedent of God’s ancient covenant people. With regard to the bearing  of this verse on the subject of Infant Baptism, it seems to me to have  none , further than this: that it establishes the analogy, so far, between Christian and Jewish children, as to shew, that if the initiatory rite of the old covenant was administered to the one, that of the new covenant, in so far as it was regarded as corresponding to circumcision, would probably as a matter of course be administered to the other. Those, as Meyer, who deny any such inference, forget, as it seems to me, that it is not  personal holiness which is here predicated of the children, any more than of the unbelieving husband or wife, but  holiness of dedication , by strict dependence on  one dedicated . Notwithstanding this ἁγιότης , the Christian child is individually born in sin and a child of wrath; and individually needs the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost, just as much as the Jewish child needed the typical purifying of circumcision, and the sacrificial atonements of the law. So that in this ἁγιότης of the Christian child there is nothing inconsistent with the idea, nor with the practice, of Infant Baptism.
	On  νῦν δέ , see note, ch. 1 Corinthians 5:11 .