 15 .]  But if the wish for separation (implied by the  present χωρίζεται ,  is for being separated, see Winer, edn. 6, § 40. 2. a, and compare John 10:32 ; John 13:6 ; Joh 13:27 )  proceed from the side of the UNBELIEVER (emphasis on  ὁ ἄπιστος ),  let him (or her)  depart (be separated off).
	 οὐ δεδούλ  . ] οὐκ ἔχει ἀνάγκην ὁ πιστὸς ἢ ἡ πιστὴ ἐν τοῖς ἀπίστοις τοιαύτην , οἵα αὐτῷ ἐπίκειται ἐπὶ τῶν πιστῶν . ἐκεῖ μὲν γὰρ παντὶ τρόπῳ , χωρὶς λόγῳ πορνείας , οὐκ ἔξεστιν ἀπ ʼ ἀλλήλων τοὺς συναφθέντας χωριαθῆναι · ἐνταῦθα δέ , ἂν μὲν συνευδοκῇ τὸ ἄπιστον μέρος τῷ πιστῷ συνοικεῖν , δεῖ μὴ λύειν τὸ συνοικέσιον . ἂν δὲ στασιάζῃ καὶ τὴν λύσιν ἐκεῖνος ποιῇ , οὐ δεδούλωται ὁ πιστὸς εἰς τὸ μὴ χωρισθῆναι . Photius, in Œcumenius.
	 ἐν τοῖς τοιούτοις may be taken as masc.,  in the case of such persons , as above by Phot [18] : but the ἐν seems harsh; it is better therefore to render it,  in such cases.
	 [18] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	 ἐν δὲ εἰρ  . ] Not = εἰς εἰρήνην [E. V.], but signifying the moral element  in which we are called to be: see reff. and 1Co 7:22 below.
	The meaning is, ‘let the unbeliever depart, rather than by attempting to retain the union, endanger that peace of household and peace of spirit, which is part of the calling of a Christian.’
	Observe, (1) that there is no contradiction, in this licence of breaking off such a marriage, to the command of our Lord in Matthew 5:32 , because the Apostle expressly asserts, 1 Corinthians 7:12 , that  our Lord’s words do not apply to such marriages as are here contemplated. They were spoken to those  within the covenant , and as such apply immediately to the wedlock of  Christians ( 1Co 7:10 ), but  not to mixed marriages .
	De Wette denies this, and holds that Paul is speaking only of the Christian’s duty in cases where the marriage is  already virtually broken off , and by his remarks on Matthew 5:32 , seems to take πορνεία in a wide sense, and to regard it as a justifiable cause of divorce  because it is such a breaking off . This however appears hardly consistent with 1 Corinthians 7:12 ; for, if it were so, there  would be a command of the Lord regarding this case. At all events, we may safely assume that where the Apostle is  distinctly referring to our Lord’s command, and supplying what it did not contain, there can be  no real inconsistency : if such appear to be, it must be in our apprehension, not in his words. (2) That the question of re-marrying after such a separation, is here  left open : ou this, see note on Matthew 5:32 . (3) That not a word here said can be so strained as to imply any licence to  contract marriages with unbelievers. Only those  already contracted are dealt with: the ἑτεροζυγεῖν ἀπίστοις is expressly forbidden, 2 Corinthians 6:14 , and by implication below, 1 Corinthians 7:39 .