 1 40 .] REPLY TO THEIR ENQUIRIES RESPECTING MARRIAGE; BY WHICH OCCASION IS GIVEN FOR VARIOUS COLLATERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND COMMANDS. In order to the right understanding of this chapter, it will be well to remember, that the enquiries in the letter of the Corinthians appear to have been made in  disparagement of marriage , and to have brought into doubt whether it were not better to  avoid it where uncontracted , and  break it off where contracted , or this last at all events  where one of the parties was an unbeliever . These questions he answers, 1 Corinthians 7:1-16 ; and puts on their true grounds, 1 Corinthians 7:17-24 . They appear also to have asked respecting  virgins , what was their duty and that of their parents, as to their contracting marriage. This he discusses in its various aspects of duty and Christian expediency, 1 Corinthians 7:25-38 . Then he concludes with an answer and advice, respecting the liberty of a woman to marry after the death of her husband.
	The  whole is written under the strong impression (see on this, notes, Acts 2:20 ; Romans 13:11 , and 2 Corinthians 5:0 ; and Prolegg. to Vol. III. ch. 5 § iv. 5 10) of the near approach of the end of this state of things ( 1Co 7:29-31 ), and as advising them under circumstances in which persecution, and family division for the Gospel’s sake, might at any time break up the relations of life. The precepts therefore and recommendations contained in the chapter are to be weighed, as those in ch. 8 al.,  with reference to change of circumstances ; and the meaning of God’s Spirit in them with respect to the subsequent ages of the Church, to be sought by  careful comparison and inference , not rashly assumed and misapplied. I may also premise, that in hardly any portion of the Epistles has the hand of correctors and interpolators of the text been busier, than here. The absence of all ascetic tendency from the Apostle’s advice, on the point where asceticism was busiest and most mischievous, was too strong a testimony against it, to be left in its original clearness. In consequence, the textual critic finds himself in this chapter sometimes much perplexed between different readings, and in danger of on the one hand adopting, on overwhelming manuscript authority, corrections of the early ascetics, and on the other excluding, from a too cautious retention of the rec. text, the genuine but less strongly attested simplicity of the original.