 21 24 .]  Second example : SLAVERY.  Wert thou called (converted) [  being ]  a slave, let it not be a trouble to thee: but if thou art even able to become free, use it (i.e. remain in slavery)  rather . This rendering, which is that of Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Œcum, Phot [28] , Camerar., Estius, Wolf, Bengel, Meyer, De Wette, al., is required by the  usage of the particles , εἰ καί , by which, see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 139, the καί , ‘  also ,’ or ‘  even ,’ does not belong to the εἰ , as in καὶ εἰ , but is spread over the whole contents of the concessive clause: so Soph. Œd. Tyr. 302, πόλιν μέν ,  εἰ καὶ μὴ βλέπεις , φρονεῖς δ ʼ ὅμως , οἵᾳ νόσῳ ξύνεστιν . Plato, Rep. p. 337,  εἰ δ ʼ οὖν  καὶ μή ἐστιν ὅμοιον , φαίνεται δὲ τῷ ἐρωτηθέντι τοιούτων . Aristoph. Lysistr. 254, χώρει , Δράκης , ἡγοῦ βάδην ,  εἰ καὶ τὸν ὦμον ἀλγεῖς . Thucyd. ii. 64, μήτε ἐμὲ δι ʼ ὀργῆς ἔχετε …  εἰ καὶ ἐπελθόντες οἱ ἐναντίοι ἔδρασαν , ἅπερ εἰκὸς ἦν μὴ ἐθελησάντων ὑμῶν ὑπακούειν . See more examples in Hartung. It is also required by the  context : for the  burden of the whole passage is, ‘Let each man  remain in the  state in which he was called .’ It is given in the Syr.: which has ܓܒܝ ܠܟ ܕܬܦܠܝܘܝܝ “choose for thyself that thou mayest serve,” or simply, “prefer servitude:” not as Meyer from the erroneous Latin of Tremelius, “elige tibi potius quam ut servias” (I am indebted for this correction of some of my earlier editions to the kindness of the Rev. Henry Craik, of Bristol). The other interpretation, mentioned by Chrys., and given by Erasm., Luther (Stanley is mistaken in quoting him as favourable to the other interpretation: his words are, “  Bist du ein Knecht berusen, sorge der nicht: doch, kannst du frei werben, so brauche deß viel lieber ”), Beza, Calvin, Grot., and almost all the moderns, understands τῇ ἐλευθερίᾳ after χρῆσαι : ‘  but if thou art able to become free, take advantage of it rather .’ The objections to this are, (1) the position of καί , which in this case must have been after δύνασαι , εἰ δύνασαι καὶ ἐλεύθερος γενέσθαι , or have been absent altogether. (2) The clause would hardly have begun with  ἀλλὰ εἰ but with εἰ ,  δέ so the alternative suppositions in 1 Corinthians 7:9 ; 1 Corinthians 7:11 ; 1Co 7:15 ; 1 Corinthians 7:28 ; 1 Corinthians 7:36 . The  ἀλλά brings out a strong opposition to the  μελέτω , and implies a climax which would ill suit a merely parenthetic clause, but must convey the  point of the sentence. (3) The absence of a demonstrative pronoun after χρῆσαι , by which we are thrown back, not on the secondary subject of the sentence, ἐλευθερίᾳ , but on the primary, δουλείᾳ . (4) Its utter inconsistency with the general context. The Apostle would thus be giving two examples of the precept ἕκαστος ἐν ᾧ ἐκλήθη ἐν τούτῳ μενέτω , one of which would convey a recommendation of the contrary course. See this followed out in Chrysostom. (5) Its entire contradiction to 1 Corinthians 7:22 ; see below. (6) It would be quite inconsistent with the teaching of the Apostle, that in Christ ( Gal 3:28 )  freeman and slave are all one , and with his remarks on the urgency and shortness of the time in this chapter (1 Corinthians 7:29 ff.), to turn out of his way to give a precept merely of worldly wisdom, that a slave should become free if he could. (7) The import of χράομαι in such a connexion, which suits better the remaining in, enduring, labouring under, giving one’s self up to, an  already-existing state, than the adopting or taking advantage of a  new one; cf. such expressions as τοιούτῳ μόρῳ ἐχρήσατο ὁ παῖς , Herod. i. 117: συμφορᾷ , συντυχίᾳ , εὐτυχίᾳ , χρῆσθαι , often in Herod.: ἀμαθίᾳ χρῆσθαι , and the like. The instance quoted by Bloomfield for ‘  become free,’ ἑκὼν γὰρ οὐδεὶς δουλίῳ χρῆται ζύγῳ , Æsch. Agam. 953, tells just the other way. There χρῆται is used not of  entering , but of  submitting to, the yoke of slavery, as here.
	 [28] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891