15. the whole family—ALFORD,
	MIDDLETON, and others
	translate, "every family": alluding to the several families
	in heaven and in earth supposed to exist [THEOPHYLACT,
	Æcumenius, in SUICER,
	2.633], the apostle thus being supposed to imply that God, in His
	relation of Father to us His adopted children, is the great prototype
	of the paternal relation wherever found. But the idea that "the
	holy angels are bound up in spiritual families or
	compaternities," is nowhere else in Scripture referred
	to. And Acts 2:36, where the
	article is similarly omitted, and yet the translation is, "All
	the house of Israel," shows that in New Testament Greek
	the translation is justifiable, "all the family," or
	"the whole family": which accords with Scripture
	views, that angels and men, the saints militant and those with God,
	are one holy family joined under the one Father in Christ, the
	mediator between heaven and earth (Ephesians 1:10;
	Philippians 2:10). Hence angels are
	termed our "brethren" (Philippians 2:10- :), and "sons of God" by creation, as we are by
	adoption (Job 38:7). The Church
	is part of the grand family, or kingdom, which comprehends, besides
	men, the higher spiritual world, where the archetype, to the
	realization of which redeemed man is now tending, is already
	realized. This universal idea of the "kingdom" of God as
	one divine community, is presented to us in the Lord's Prayer. By sin
	men were estranged, not only from God, but from that higher spiritual
	world in which the kingdom of God is already realized. As Christ when
	He reconciled men to God, united them to one another in a divine
	community (joined to Himself, the one Head), breaking down the
	partition wall between Jew and Gentile (Job 38:7- :), so also He joins them in communion with all those who have
	already attained that perfection in the kingdom of God, to which the
	Church on earth is aspiring (Job 38:7- :) [NEANDER]. 
	is named—derives its
	origin and its name as sons of God. To be named, and to
	be, are one with God. To bear God's name is to belong to God
	as His own peculiar people (Numbers 6:27;
	Isaiah 43:7; Isaiah 44:5;
	Romans 9:25; Romans 9:26).