Verse 17. For therein — In the Gospel of Christ.Is the righteousness of God — God's method of saving sinners.Revealed from faith to faith — Shown to be by faith, and not by the works of any law; for Abraham, the father and founder of the Jewish people, was justified by faith, before even the law was given; and by believing, in reference to the spiritual object held forth in the various ordinances of the law, and now revealed under the Gospel, he and all his believing descendants have been justified. And thus the faith of the old covenant led on to the faith of the new covenant, which shows that salvation has been by faith from the call of Abraham to the present time. And, from the beginning, all that were just or righteous in the earth became such by faith, and by this principle alone they were enabled to persevere; as it is written, The just shall live by faith. That δικαιοσυνη, which we translate righteousness in this verse, signifies God's method of saving mankind by faith in Christ, is fully evident from the use of the term in Romans 9:30: The Gentiles which followed not after RIGHTEOUSNESS - who had no knowledge by revelation, of God's method of justifying and saving sinners, have attained to RIGHTEOUSNESS - have had imparted to them God's method of salvation by faith in Christ. Romans 9:31: But Israel, the Jews, which followed after the law of righteousness - that law, the end or object of which is CHRIST, and through him justification to all that believe (Romans 10:4,) have not attained to the law of righteousness - have not found out the genuine plan of salvation, even in that law which so strongly and generally proclaims justification by faith. And why have they not found it? Romans 9:32: Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law - they did not discern that even its works or prescribed religious observances were intended to lead to faith in that glorious Mediator of whom they were the types and representatives; but the Jews trusted in the observances themselves, hoping to acquire justification and final salvation by that means. For they stumbled at the stumbling-stone - at the doctrine of Christ crucified as the only sure ground on which the expectation of future salvation can be founded. Therefore, being ignorant of God's righteousness - God's method of saving sinners, and going about to establish their own righteousness - their own method of salvation, by the observance of those rites and ceremonies which should have led them by faith to Christ, they did not submit themselves to the righteousness of God - they would not submit to be saved in God's way, and therefore rejected, persecuted, and crucified the Lord Jesus; see Romans 10:3. This collation of passages most evidently shows that the word righteousness here means simply God's method of saving sinners, or God's way of salvation, in opposition to the ways and means invented by the fancies or prejudices of men.There are few words in the sacred writings which are taken in a greater variety of acceptations than the word צדקה tsedakah in Hebrew, and δικαιοσυνη in Greek, both of which we generally translate righteousness. Our English word was originally rightwiseness, from the Anglo-Saxon, [Anglo-Saxon], justice, right, and [Anglo-Saxon], to know; and thus the righteous man was a person who was allowed to understand the claims of justice and right, and who, knowing them, acted according to their dictates. Such a man is thoroughly wise; he aims at the attainment of the best end by the use of the best means. This is a true definition of wisdom, and the righteous man is he that knows most and acts best. The Hebrew צדק tsadak, in its ideal meaning, contains the notion of a beam or scales in equipoise, what we call even balance; and it is well known that in all the personifications of Justice, both ancient and modern, she is represented as a beautiful female with a bandage on her eyes, and a beam and scales in her hand, so perfectly poised that neither end preponderates.The Greek word δικαιοσυνη has been derived from διχαζω, to divide; and hence δικη, justice, because it is the property of this virtue to divide to each his due. With other etymologies it is useless to trouble the reader. Both the noun δικαιοσυνη and the verb δικαιοω have a great variety of meaning in the New Testament; but they are all reducible to this original idea, acting according to the requisitions of justice or right. It may not be improper to notice some of the chief of these acceptations in this place.1. The act of distributing to each man his due is the sense of the word, Acts 17:31: He will judge the world in RIGHTEOUSNESS, i.e. according to the principles of eternal justice and rectitude. See also Revelation 19:2: In RIGHTEOUSNESS doth he judge and make war.2. It signifies a holy life, as proceeding from piety towards God. Luke 1:75: Might serve him in holiness and RIGHTEOUSNESS all the days of our life.3. It signifies benignity, liberality, and particularly almsgiving, as justice and righteousness require us, being only stewards of God's bounty, to share it with the necessitous. Matthew 6:1: Take heed that ye do not your ALMS, δικαιοσυνην, your RIGHTEOUSNESS, before men. Romans 3:5: But if our unrighteousness commend the RIGHTEOUSNESS, the benignity of God. 2 Corinthians 9:10: Increase the fruits of your RIGHTEOUSNESS, i.e. of your liberality.4. It signifies God's method of saving sinners; the way which is agreeable to his righteousness and liberality. See the former part of this note, and the scriptures there referred to.5. It signifies the reward or issue of liberality. 2 Corinthians 9:9: He hath scattered abroad; he hath given to the poor; his RIGHTEOUSNESS - the reward of his bounty, remaineth for ever. See Psalms 112:9.6. It signifies the whole collection of graces, which constitute the complete Christian character. Matthew 5:6: Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after RIGHTEOUSNESS - they who ardently long for the full salvation of God. Matthew 5:10, Matthew 5:20 : If your RIGHTEOUSNESS exceed not the righteousness, c. Matthew 6:33: Seek the kingdom of God and his RIGHTEOUSNESS.7. It signifies the result of faith in God and submission to his will, exemplified in a holy and useful life. Hebrews 11:7: By faith Noah prepared an ark, and became heir of the RIGHTEOUSNESS which is by faith - he escaped the deluge and became the instrument of repeopling the world.8. It signifies an exact observance of religious ordinances and precepts. Philippians 3:6: Touching the RIGHTEOUSNESS which is of the law, blameless - having lived in an exact conformity to all the Mosaic precepts. In this sense it is to be understood, Matthew 3:15: Thus it becomes us to fulfil all RIGHTEOUSNESS - to observe every precept of the law.9. It signifies the favour or pardoning mercy of God. Romans 4:6: The blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth RIGHTEOUSNESS - - without works - the man is happy to whom God has granted the remission of sins, without respect to his observance of the law of Moses. 10. In 2 Corinthians 5:21, δικαιοσυνη, righteousness, is put for δικαιος, righteous: That we might become the righteousness of God - that we might receive such a righteousness or holiness, such a salvation, as is worthy of God's grace to impart, and such as the necessities of mankind require.A few of the leading acceptations of the verb δικαιοω, which we translate to justify, may be here properly subjoined, as this verb is so repeatedly used in this epistle.1. It signifies so declare or pronounce one just or righteous or, in other words, to declare him to be what he really is. 1 Timothy 3:16: He was JUSTIFIED in the Spirit. - By the almighty power of the Spirit he was proved to be the TRUE MESSIAH.2. To esteem a thing properly. Matthew 11:19: Wisdom is JUSTIFIED of her children. - Wisdom, propriety of conduct, is properly estimated by wise men.3. It signifies to approve, praise, and commend. The publicans JUSTIFIED God, Luke 7:29; praised him for calling them to such a state of salvation. Luke 16:15: Ye are they which JUSTIFY yourselves before men - Ye are self-commended, self-applauded, and self-praised. In this sense it is often used in the Greek apocryphal books. Ecclus. vii. 5: JUSTlFY not thyself before the Lord - Do not applaud thyself in the presence of thy - Maker. Ib. x. 29: Who will JUSTIFY (praise or applaud) him that sinneth against his own soul. Ib. xviii. 2: The Lord only is righteous, δικαιωθησεται, shall be JUSTIFIED, i.e. praised, because there is none other but he.4. The verb δικαιοομαι is used to clear from all sin. 1 Corinthians 4:4: For I know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby JUSTIFIED - A man's own consciousness of integrity is not a proof that he is clear from all sin in the sight of God.5. A judge is said to justify not only when he condemns and punishes, but also when he defends the cause of the innocent. See EURIP. Heraclid. ver. 190. THUCYD. iii. p. 200. POLYB. iii. 31, and SCHLEUSNER on δικαιοω. Hence δικαιουσθαι is taken in a forensic sense, and signifies to be found or declared righteous, innocent, c. Matthew 12:37: By thy words shalt thou be JUSTIFIED - thou shalt be declared to be righteous. Romans 3:4: That thou mightest be JUSTIFIED in thy saying - that thou mightest be proved to be true in what thou hast said.6. It signifies to set free, to escape from. Acts 13:39: And by him all that believe are JUSTIFIED from all things, from which ye could not be JUSTIFIED by the law - by faith in Christ a man escapes those evils which, otherwise, the law of Moses would inflict upon him. Romans 6:7: For he that is dead, δεδικαιωται, is JUSTIFIED, properly rendered by our translators, is FREED from sin.7. It signifies also to receive one into favour, to pardon sin. Romans 8:30: Whom he called, them he also JUSTIFIED - he received them into favour and pardoned their sins. Luke 18:14: This man went down to his house JUSTIFIED - he humbled himself, repented of his iniquity, and God forgave his sin. Romans 3:20: By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be JUSTIFIED - no soul can have his sins forgiven through the observance of the Mosaic law. Romans 4:2: If Abraham were JUSTIFIED (had his sin pardoned) by works. 1 Corinthians 6:11: Such were some of you, but ye are JUSTIFIED - ye are received into the Divine favour, and have your sins forgiven. See James 2:21-25; Romans 3:24; Romans 3:28; Romans 5:1; Romans 5:9; Galatians 2:16, Galatians 2:17; Galatians 3:11, Galatians 3:24; Galatians 5:4; Titus 3:7. In all these texts the word justify is taken in the sense of remission of sins through faith in Christ Jesus; and does not mean making the person just or righteous, but treating him as if he were so, having already forgiven him his sins.The just shall live by faith. — This has been understood two ways:1. That the just or righteous man cannot live a holy and useful life without exercising continual faith in our Lord Jesus: which is strictly true; for He only who has brought him into that state of salvation can preserve him in it; and he stands by faith.2. It is contended by some able critics that the words of the original text should be pointed thus: 'ο δε δικαιος εκ πιστεως, ζησεται. The just by faith, shall live; that is, he alone that is justified by faith shall be saved: which is also true; as it is impossible to get salvation in any other way. This last meaning is probably the true one, as the original text in Habakkuk 2:4, speaks of those who believed the declarations of God when the Chaldeans besieged Jerusalem, and, having acted conformably to them, escaped with their lives.