 37. ]  δημοσίᾳ and  λάθρα are opposed: the  injury had been  public : the  reparation , not to Paul and Silas merely, but to the Gospel of which they were the heralds, must be  public also .
	 ἀνθρ  .   Ῥωμ  .   ὑπάρχ  . ] By the Lex Valeria, passed A.U.C. 254, and the Lex Porcia, A.U.C. 506, Roman citizens were exempted from stripes and torture: by the former, till an appeal to the people was decided, by the latter, absolutely. The following passages of Cicero illustrate our text: ‘Porcia lex virgas ab omnium civium Romanorum corpore amovit.’ Pro Rabirio, c. 3. ‘Cædebatur virgis in medio foro Messanæ civis Romanus, judices: cum interea nullus gemitus, nulla vox alia istius miseri, inter dolorem crepitumque virgarum audiebatur, nisi hæc: Civis Romanus sum.’ In Verrem, lib. v. 62, 63. ‘Facinus est vinciri civem Romanum; scelus verberari; prope parricidium, necari.’ Ibid. 66. Many others are given by Kuinoel, Biscoe, &c.
	On the question,  how Paul came to be born a Roman citizen , see note on ch. Acts 22:28 ; and on ὑπάρχ ., note, Acts 16:20 .
	Another irregularity had been committed by the duumviri, in scourging them  uncondemned : ‘causa cognita multi possunt absolvi: incognita quidem condemnari nemo potest.’ Cic. in Verr. i. 9. ‘Inauditi et indefensi tanquam innocenter perierant.’ Tac. Hist. ii. 10.
	 ἑκβάλλ  . ]  are they thrusting us out? It does not follow, because ἐκβάλλω has no such sense in ch. Acts 9:40 , &c., that therefore it has not here. The circumstances must determine; which here seem to require this sense: the  ἐκβάλλειν λάθρα having a tinge of degradation in it, as if said of casting out that of which one is ashamed.
	 οὐ γάρ ] An elliptical answer to a question or position, the negative of which is self-evident: see Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. p. 48: Kühner, Gramm. § 741. 6: Hermann on Viger, p. 462. When it occurs with ἀλλά , it is best written without a stop between: cf. Aristoph. Ran. 58: μὴ σκῶπτέ μ ʼ, ὦ ʼ δέλφ ʼ· οὐ γὰρ ἀλλ ʼ ἔχω κακῶς : ib. 193: μὰ τὸν Δί ʼ οὐ γὰρ (scil. νεναυμάχηκα ) ἀλλ ʼ ἔτυχον ὀφθαλμιῶν , and 499, φέρε δὴ ταχέως αὔτ ʼ· οὐ γὰρ ἀλλὰ πειστέον .
	Mr. Humphry remarks, ‘St. Paul submitted to be scourged by his own countrymen (five times, 2Co 11:24 ): for, though he might have pleaded his privilege as a Roman, to the Jews he “became as a Jew,” observing their ceremonies, and submitting to their law.’