 13.   ποταμόν ]  a (or,  the) river ; viz. the small stream Gangites, or Gangas: Leake, p. 217, cited by C. and H. i. 341; not, as Meyer and De Wette, the Strymon, the nearest point of which was many miles distant. The name Krenides, formerly borne by the city, was derived from the fountains of this stream.
	From many sources we learn, that it was the practice of the Jews to hold their assemblies for prayer  near water , whether of the sea, or of rivers: probably on account of the frequent washings customary among them. Thus a decree of the Halicarnasseans in Joseph. Antt. xiv. 10. 23, allows the Jews τὰς προσευχὰς ποιεῖσθαι πρὸς τῇ θαλάσσῃ κατὰ τὸ πάτριον ἔθος . Thus Juvenal, speaking of the ‘madida Capena’ at Rome, adds, ‘Nunc sacri fontis nemus, et delubra locantur Judæis,’ iii. 13. And Tertullian, de Jejuniis, ch. 16, vol. ii. p. 976, ‘Judaicum certe jejunium ubique celebratur, quum omissis templis per omne litus quocumque in aperto aliquando jam precem ad cœlum mittunt.’ And ad Nationes, i. 13, vol. i. p. 579, he speaks of the ‘orationes litorales’ of the Jews. See also Philo in Flacc. § 14, vol. ii. p. 535.
	 οὗ ἐνομ  .   προς  .   εἶναι ]  Where a meeting for prayer was accustomed to be : i.e. ‘  where prayer was wont to be made ,’ as E. V. That this is the meaning here, is plain from the use of  ἐνομίζετο εἶναι , which could certainly not be said if the προσευχή were in this case a  building dedicated to prayer . Were there no such qualification, we should understand the word of a προσευκτήριον or  synagogue , as frequently used: τινὰς δὲ οἴκους ἑαυτοῖς κατασκευάσαντες ἢ τόπους πλατεῖς φόρων δίκην ,  προσευχὰς ταύτας ἐκάλουν · καὶ ἦσαν μὲν τὸ παλαιὸν προσευχῶν τόποι ἔν τε τοῖς Ἰουδαίοις ἔξω πόλεως , καὶ ἐν τοῖς Σαμαρείταις . Epiphanius, Hær. 80, § 1, p. 1067: and again, soon after, ἀλλὰ καὶ προσευχῆς τόπος ἐν Σικίμοις , ἐν τῇ νυνὶ καλουμένῃ Νεαπόλει , ἔξω τῆς πόλεως , ἐν τῇ πεδιάδι , ὡς ἀπὸ σημείων δύο ,  θεατροειδής ,  οὕτως ἐν ἀέρι κ  .   αἰθρίῳ τόπῳ ἐστὶ κατασκευασθείς , ὑπὸ τῶν Σαμαρειτῶν πάντα τὰ τῶν Ἰουδαίων μιμουμένων . Josephus, Vita p. 54, says, συνάγονται πάντες εἰς τὴν προσευχήν , μέγιστον οἴκημα πολὺν ὄχλον ἐπιδέξασθαι δυνάμενον .
	The προσευχή here was probably one of the open places spoken of in the above extracts from Epiph [79] The close of the verse also agrees best with an open place of resort. There seem to have been few, if any,  Jews in Philippi: this assembly consisting merely of women attached to the Jewish faith. We hear of no opposition arising from Jews. There appears (ch. Act 17:1 ) to have been no synagogue.
	 [79] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403