 12.   Φιλίππους ] Philippi was built as a military position on the site of the village Krenides (also called Datos, Appian, Bell. Civ. iv. 105, οἱ δὲ Φίλιπποι πόλις ἐστίν , ἣ Δάτος ὠνομάζετο πάλαι , καὶ Κρηνίδες ἔτι πρὸ Δάτου · κρῆναι γάρ εἰσι περὶ τῷ λόφῳ ναμάτων πολλαί ), by Philip the Great of Macedon. The plain between the Gangites, on which the town is situate, and the Strymon, was the field of the celebrated battle of Antony and Octavius against Brutus and Cassius (cf. Dio Cassius, xlvii. 41. ff.: Appian, ubi supra): see more below. There is now an insignificant place on its site retaining the name Filiba (or Philippigi?). Winer, Realw.
	 πρώτη τῆς μερίδος τῆς Μακεδονίας πόλις ]  The first Macedonian city of the district . It was the first Macedonian city to which Paul and his companions came in that district, Neapolis properly belonging to Thrace. And this epithet of πρώτη would belong to it not only as regarded the journey of Paul and Silas, but as Wieseler remarks (Chron. d. Apgsch. p. 37, note) as lying  furthest eastward , for which reason also the  district was called Macedonia  prima , though furthest from Rome. The other explanations are, (1) ‘  chief city ,’ as E. V. But this it was not: Thessalonica being the chief city of the whole province, and Amphipolis of the division (if it then subsisted) of  Macedonia prima : (2) πρώτη is taken as a title of honour (Hug, Kuin., De Wette), as we find in the coins of Pergamus and Smyrna (but not in the case of any city out of Asia Minor): (3) πόλις κολων . are united (Grot.), ‘  the first city which was a colony .’ But there could be no reason for stating this: whereas there would be every reason to particularize the fact that they tarried and preached in the very first city to which they came, in the territory to which they were sent.
	 μερίδος would seem to import that the division into Macedonia prima, secunda, &c., made long before this by Æmilius Paulus (Livy, xlv. 29), still subsisted; this however is not necessary: μερίς might be merely a geographical subdivision. Wordsworth finds his solution of the difficulty in “the Hellenistic sense of the word μερίς , viz. a  frontier or strip of  border land , that by which it (?) is divided from some other adjacent territory: see Ezekiel 45:7 .” But this supposed sense may be questioned. Certainly in the place cited μερίς has no such meaning. It there represents חֵלֶק , which is merely a  part or  portion .
	 κολωνία ] Philippi was made a  colonia by Augustus, as a memorial of his victory over Brutus and Cassius, and as a frontier garrison against Thrace. Its full name on the coins of the city was Colonia Augusta Julia Philippensis. A Roman  colony was in fact a portion of Rome itself transplanted to the provinces (Aulus Gellius, xvi. 13, calls them ‘ex civitate quasi propagatæ populi Romani quasi effigies parvæ simulacraque’). The colonists consisted of veteran soldiers and freedmen, who went forth, and determined and marked out their situation, with all religious and military ceremonies. The inhabitants of the coloniæ were  Roman citizéns , and were still  enrolled in one or other of the tribes , and possessed the privilege of voting at Rome. In them the Roman law was strictly observed, and the Latin language was used on their coins and inscriptions. They were governed by their own senate and magistrates (Duumviri, as the consuls at Rome: see on στρατηγοί below, Act 16:20 ), and not by the governor of the province. The land on which they stood was tributary, as being provincial, unless liberated from tribute by the special favour of the  jus Italicum , or Quiritarian ownership of the soil. This Philippi possessed, in common with many other coloniæ and favoured provincial towns. The population of such places came in process of time to be of a mixed character: but only the descendants of the original colonists by Roman wives, or women of a people possessing the civitas, were Roman citizens. Hence new supplies of colonists were often necessary. See article ‘Colonia’ in Smith’s Dict. of Antt., and C. and H. i. pp. 341, f.
	 ἐν ταύτῃ τῇ πόλει ]  In this city , as distinguished from the suburban place of prayer to which they afterwards, on the Sabbath, ἐξῆλθον ἔξω τῆς πύλης . Perhaps ταύτῃ may have been changed to αὐτῇ , to make the contrast stronger. ἐν αὐτῇ τῇ πόλει , as distinguished from ἔξω τῆς πύλης , would be too strong an expression for the calm simplicity of St. Luke’s narrative style.