 16. ] This happened on other occasions; not on the same day, as Heinrichs and Kuinoel fancy. In that case (besides other objections), if they had gone back from the house of Lydia to the place of prayer, the word would certainly have been ἐξελθόντων , and not πορευομένων . In Act 16:15 is implied their taking up their abode with Lydia: in this verse that they  habitually resorted to this place of prayer to teach, and that what follows happened on such occasions.
	It may be remarked that the E. V. of πορευομένων εἰς ( τὴν ) προσευχήν , ‘  as we went to prayer ,’ has given rise to a curious abuse of the expression ‘  going to prayer ,’ in the sense of ‘  beginning to pray ,’ among the lower classes in England.
	 ἔχουσαν πνεῦμα πύθωνα ] On the whole subject of dæmoniacal possession, see note on Matthew 8:32 . This was a case in which the presence of the spirit was a  patent fact , recognized by the heathen possessors and consulters of this female slave, and by them turned to account; and recognized also by the Christian teachers, as an instance of one of those works of the devil which their Lord came, and commissioned them, to destroy. All attempt to explain away such a narrative as this by the subterfuges of rationalism (as e.g. in Meyer, and even Lewin, i. 243, and apparently Hackett, p. 222), is more than ever futile. The fact of the  spirit leaving the girl, and the masters  finding the hope of their gains gone , is  fatal : and we may see, notwithstanding all his attempts to account for it psychologically, that Meyer feels it to be so.
	 πύθωνα ] Plut. de Defectu Oracul. p. 414, says ὥσπερ τοὺς ἐγγαστριμύθους Εὐρυκλέας (from a prophet, Eurycles), πάλαι , νυνὶ Πύθωνας προσαγορευομένους . It is difficult to decide internally between the probabilities of πύθωνα and πύθωνος : I have retained the ancient reading, both from its external authority, and because I find so many Commentators explaining πύθων to be a  name of Apollo , or  the serpent Python , that the alteration into the gen. may thus be easily accounted for. Bp. Wordsworth has an interesting note on the probable reason for this new term appearing in the narrative, now that St. Paul is brought directly into contact with Greek and Roman divination.