 6.   Φρυγίαν ] There were two tracts of country called by this name: ‘Phrygiam utramque (alteram ad Hellespontum,  majorem alteram vocant).… Eumeni restituerunt.’ Livy, xxxviii. 39. It is with ‘Phrygia Major’ that we are here concerned, which was the great central space of Asia Minor, yet retaining the name of its earliest inhabitants, and on account of its being politically subdivided among the contiguous provinces, impossible to define accurately (see C. and H. i. p. 280, note 1).
	The Apostle’s route must remain very uncertain. It is probable that he may have followed the great road (according to his usual practice and the natural course of a missionary journey) from Iconium to Philomelium and perhaps as far as Synnada, and thence struck off to the N.E. towards Pessinus in Galatia. That he visited Colossæ, in the extreme S.W. of Phrygia, on this journey, as supposed by some, and maintained with some ingenuity by Mr. Lewin (Life and Epistles of St. Paul i. 191 ff.), is very improbable (see Wieseler, Chron. d. Apostgsch. pp. 28 ff.).
	 Γαλατικὴν χ  . ] The midland district, known as Galatia, or Gallo-græcia, was inhabited by the descendants of those Gauls who invaded Greece and Asia in the third century B.C., and after various incursions and wars, settled and became mixed with the Greeks in the centre of Asia Minor. They were known as a brave and freedom-loving people, fond of war, and either on their own or others’ account, almost always in arms, and generally as cavalry. Jerome (in the introduction to book ii. of his comm. on Galatians, vol. vii. p. 429) says that their speech was like that of the Germans in the neighbourhood of Treves: and perhaps Λυκαονιστί , ch. Acts 14:11 , spoken of the neighbouring district, may refer to this peculiardialect. But Greek was extensively spoken. They were conquered by the consul Cn. Manlius Vulso, 189 B.C. (Livy xxxviii. 12, see 1Ma 8:2 ), but retained their own governors, called as before tetrarchs, and afterwards kings (for one of whom, Deiotarus, a protégé of Pompey’s, Cicero pleaded before Cæsar); their last king, Amyntas, passed over from Antony to Augustus in the battle of Actium. Galatia, after his murder, A.D. 26, became a Roman province. The principal cities were Ancyra, which was made the metropolis of the province by Augustus, Tavium, and Pessinus: in all, or some of which, the Apostle certainly preached. He was detained here on account of sickness ( δι ʼ ἀσθένειαν τῆς σαρκός , Gal 4:13 ). See further in Prolegg. to Gal. § ii.
	 κωλυθέντες ] By some special intimation, like that in ch. Acts 13:2 .
	 Ἀσίᾳ ] This name, applied at first to the district near the river Cayster in Lydia ( Ἀσίῳ ἐν λειμῶνι , Καϋστρίου ἀμφὶ ῥέεθρα , Hom. Il. β . 461), came to have a meaning more and more widely extended, till at last it embraced, as at present, the whole vast continent, forming one of the quarters of the globe. But we never find this meaning in Scripture. The Asia of the Acts is not even our Asia Minor, which name is not used till Orosius (i. 2, p. 16) in the fourth century A.D., but only a portion of the western coast of that great peninsula. (A full account of the history of the territory and its changes of extent will be found in C. and H., i. pp. 275 ff., and in Wieseler, pp. 32 35. I confine myself to its import in the Acts.) This, which was  the Roman province of Asia , Asia Propria, Plin. Acts 16:28 , as spoken of in the Acts, includes only Mysia, Lydia, and Caria,  excluding Phrygia (ch. Act 2:9 and here: 1Pe 1:1 it must be  included ) as in Pliny l. c., Galatia, Bithynia, Cilicia, Pamphylia, Lycia. See ch. Acts 19:26 , &c.