 10.   ἐζητήσαμεν ] by immediate enquiry for a ship. This word is remarkable as the introduction of the  first person in the narrative: which however is dropped at Acts 16:40 , on Paul’s leaving Philippi, and resumed again, ch. Acts 20:5 , on occasion of sailing from Philippi. Thence it continues (in all places where we have reason to expect it: see below) to the end of the book. On the question, what is implied by this, we may remark, (1) That while we safely conclude from it that the writer was in company with Paul when he thus speaks, we cannot with like safety infer that he was not, where the third person is used. This latter must be determined by other features of the history. For it is conceivable that a narrative, even where it concerns all present, might be, in its earlier parts, written as of others in the  third person, but might, when more intimacy had been established, or even by preference only, be at any point changed to the  first . And again, the episodes where the chief person alone, or with his principal companion or companions, is concerned, would be many, in which the narrator would use the third person, not because he was not  present , but because he was not concerned. This has not been enough attended to. If it be thought fanciful, I may refer to an undoubted instance in the episode, ch. Acts 21:17 , γενομένων ἡμῶν εἰς Ἰερ ., to ch. Acts 27:1 , ὡς δὲ ἐκρίθη τ . ἀποπλεῖν ἡμᾶς , …; during the whole of which time the writer was with or in the neighbourhood of Paul, and drops the  we , merely because he is speaking of Paul alone. (2) One objection raised by De Wette to the common view, that  Luke accompanied Paul from this time (except as above), is, that several times Paul’s companions are mentioned, but Luke is never among them. On examining however one of the passages where this is done, we find that  after the enumeration of Sopater, Aristarchus, Secundus, Gaius, Timotheus, Tychicus, and Trophimus, we are told, οὗτοι προελθόντες ἔμενον  ἡμᾶς ἐν Τρωάδι : so that the writer evidently regards himself as being closely associated with Paul, and does not think it requisite to enumerate himself among the companions of the Apostle. This may serve as a key to his practice on other occasions. On the whole, and after careful consideration of the subject, I see no reason to doubt the common view, that Luke  here joined the Apostle (whether, as Wieseler suggests, as a  physician, on account of his broken health , must of course be matter of conjecture, but is not improbable), and from this time (except from ch. Act 17:1 to Act 20:5 ) accompanies him to the end of the history. See the question of the authorship of the Acts further discussed in the Prolegg. § i. 12 14.