Analysis Of The ChapterThe apostle having illustrated the nature and power of faith in the previous chapter Hebrews 11:0, proceeds in this chapter Hebrews 12:0, to exhort those to whom he wrote to apply the same principles to their own case, and to urge them to manifest the same steady confidence in God and perseverance in their holy walk. For this purpose, he adverts to the following arguments or considerations: I. He represents the ancient worthies who had so faithfully persevered and so gloriously triumphed, as witnesses of their strife in the Christian race, and as cheering them on to victory; Hebrews 11:1. II. He appeals to the example of the Saviour; Hebrews 12:2-4. This was a more illustrious instance than any of those which had been adverted to, and is not referred to with theirs, but is adduced as deserving a separate and a special specification. The circumstances in his case which are an encouragement to perseverance in the Christian conflict, are these. (1)He endured the cross, and is now exalted to the right hand of God. (2)He bore the contradiction of sinners against himself, as those were called to do to whom Paul wrote. (3)He went beyond them in his trials and temptations - beyond anything which they could have reason to apprehend - for he had “resisted unto blood, striving against sin.” III. He encourages them by showing that their trials would result in their own good, and particularly that the hand of a Father was in them; Hebrews 12:5-13. Particularly he urges: (1)That God addressed those who suffered as his sons, and called on them not to receive with improper feeling the chastening of the Lord, Hebrews 12:5; (2)That it was a general principle that the Lord chastened those whom he loved, and the fact that we received chastening was to be regarded as evidence that we are under his paternal care, and that he has not forsaken us, Hebrews 12:6-8; (3)That they had been subject to the correction of earthly fathers and had learned to be submissive, and that there was much higher reason for submitting to God, Hebrews 12:9-10; (4)And that however painful chastisement might be at present, yet it would ultimately produce important benefits;Hebrews 12:11; Hebrews 12:11. By these considerations he encourages them to bear their trials with patience, and to assume new courage in their efforts to live a Christian life; Hebrews 12:12-13. IV. He exhorts them to perseverance and fidelity by the fact that if they should become remiss, and renounce their confidence in God, it would be impossible to retrieve what was lost; Hebrews 12:14-17. In illustrating this, he appeals to the case of Esau. For a trifling consideration, when in distress, he parted with an invaluable blessing. When it was gone, it was impossible to recover it. No consideration could induce a change, though he sought it earnestly with tears. So it would be with Christians, if, under the power of temptation, they should renounce their religion, and go back to their former state. V. He urges them to perseverance by the nature of the dispensation under which they were, as compared with the one under which they had formerly been - the Jewish; Hebrews 12:18-29. Under the former, everything was suited to alarm and terrify the soul; Hebrews 12:18-21. The new dispensation was of a different character. It was adapted to encourage and to win the heart. The real Mount Zion - the city of the living God - the New Jerusalem - the company of the angels - the church of the first-born - the Judge of all - the great Mediator - to which they had come under the new dispensation, all these were suited to encourage the fainting heart, and to win the affections of the soul; Hebrews 12:22-24. Yet, in proportion to the sacredness and tenderness of these considerations, and to the light and privileges which they now enjoyed, would be their guilt if they should renounce their religion - for under this dispensation, as under the old, God was a consuming fire; Hebrews 12:25-29.  