Verse 1 John 5:21. Little children — τεκνια. Beloved children; he concludes with the same affectionate feeling with which he commenced.Keep yourselves from idols. — Avoid the idolatry of the heathens; not only have no false gods, but have the true God. Have no idols in your houses, none in your churches, none in your hearts. Have no object of idolatrous worship; no pictures, relics, consecrated tapers, wafers, crosses, c., by attending to which your minds may be divided, and prevented from worshipping the infinite Spirit in spirit and in truth.The apostle, says Dr. Macknight cautioned his disciples against going with the heathens into the temple of their idol gods, to eat of their feasts upon the sacrifices they had offered to these gods and against being present at any act of worship which they paid them; because, by being present, they participated of that worship, as is plain from what St. Paul has written on the subject, 1 Corinthians 8:10, where see the notes.That is a man's idol or god from which he seeks his happiness; no matter whether it be Jupiter, Juno, Apollo, Minerva, Venus, or Diana; or pleasure, wealth, fame, a fine house, superb furniture, splendid equipage, medals, curiosities, books, titles, human friendships, or any earthly or heavenly thing, God, the supreme good, only excepted. That is a man's idol which prevents him from seeking and finding his ALL in God.Wiclif ends his epistle thus: My little sones, kepe ye you fro mawmitis, i.e. puppets, dolls, and such like; for thus Wiclif esteemed all images employed in religious worship. They are the dolls of a spurious Christianity, and the drivellings of religion in nonage and dotage. Protestants, keep yourselves from such mawmets!Amen. — So be it! So let it be! And so it shall be, God being our helper, for ever and ever!Subscriptions in the VERSIONS: - The end of the Epistle of the Apostle John. - SYRIAC.The First Epistle of John the apostle is ended. - SYR. Philoxenian.Nothing in either the COPTIC or VULGATE.Continual and eternal praise be to God! - ARABIC.The end. - AETHIOPIC;In this version the epistle is thus introduced: - In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, one God, the Epistle of John, the son of Zebedee, the evangelist and apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ; may his intercession be with us for ever and ever! Amen.In the MANUSCRIPTS: - The First of John. - AB.The First Epistle of John the evangelist.The First catholic Epistle of St. John the divine, written from Ephesus.The Epistle to the Parthians. - See several Latin MSS.The word amen is wanting in all the best MSS. and in most of the versions.For other matters relative to the epistle itself see the preface: and for its heavenly doctrine and unction read the text, in the original if you can; if not, in our own excellent translation.