 10. ] Hitherto our text has been parallel with that of Mark 9:1-50 ; from this, Matthew stands alone.
	The warning against contempt of these little ones must not be taken as only implying ‘maxima debetur puero reverentia’ (Juv [147] xiv. 47), nor indeed as relating exclusively, or even principally, to children. We must remember with what the discourse began a contention who should be greatest among them: and the  μικροί are those who are the furthest from these ‘greatest,’ the humble and new-born babes of the spiritual kingdom. And  καταφρονήσητε must be understood of that kind of contempt which ambition for superiority would induce for those who are by weakness or humility incapacitated for such a strife. There is no doubt that  children are included in the word  μικροί  , as they are always classed with the humble and simple-minded, and their character held up for our imitation.
	 [147]  Juvencus , 330
	The  little children in the outward status of the Church are in fact the only disciples who are sure to be that in reality, which their Baptism has put upon them, and so exactly answer to the wider meaning here conveyed by the term: and those who would in afterlife enter into the kingdom must turn back, and become as these little children as they were when they had just received the new life in Baptism. The whole discourse is in deep and constant reference to the  covenant with infants , which was to be made and ratified by an ordinance, in the Kingdom of Heaven, just as then.
	On the reason assigned in the latter part of this verse (  λέγω γὰρ κ . τ . λ .), there have been many opinions; some of which (e.g. that given by Webster and Wilkinson, ‘ ἄγγελοι , their  spirits after death:’ a meaning which the word never bore, see Suicer sub voce, and one respecting which our Lord never could have spoken in the present tense, with διὰ παντός ) have been broached merely to evade the plain sense of the words, which is that  to individuals (whether invariably, or under what circumstances of minor detail, we are not informed)  certain angels are allotted as their especial attendants and guardians . We know elsewhere from the Scriptures, both of the Old and New Testament (Psalms 34:7 ; Psalms 91:11 ; Hebrews 1:14 a [148] .), that the angels do  minister about the children of God: and what should forbid that in this service,  a prescribed order and  appointed duty should regulate their ministrations? Nay, is it not analogically certain that such would be the case? But this saying of our Lord assures us that such  is the case, and that those angels whose honour is high before God are entrusted with the charge of the humble and meek, the children in age and the children in grace.
	 [148] alii = some cursive mss.
	The phrase  λέγω γὰρ ὑμῖν  , or λέγω ὑμῖν , as in Luke 15:7 ; Luke 15:10 , is an introduction to a revelation of some previously unknown fact in the spiritual world.
	Stier has some very beautiful remarks on the guardian angels, and on the present general neglect of the doctrine of angelic tutelage, which has been doubtless a reaction from the idolatrous angel-worship of the Church of Rome (see Acts 12:15 ; Daniel 12:1 ; in the former case we have an individual, in the latter a national, guardianship).
	 βλέπουσιν τὸ πρόσωπον κ . τ . λ ., i.e. are in high honour before God; not perhaps  especially so, but the meaning may be, ‘for they have angelic guardians, who always,’ &c. See Tob 12:15 .
	[  11. The angels are the servants and messengers of the Son of Man; and they therefore ( ἦλθ .  γὰρ κ . τ . λ .) are appointed to wait on these little ones whom He came to save: and who, in their utter helplessness, are especially examples of τὸ ἀπολωλός . ‘Here,’ remarks Stier (ii. 241), ‘is Jacob’s ladder planted before our eyes: beneath are the little ones; then their angels; then the Son of Man in heaven, in whom alone man is exalted above the angels, Who, as the Great Angel of the Covenant, cometh from the Presence and Bosom of the Father; and above Him again ( Mat 18:14 ) the Father Himself, and His good pleasure.’]