 7 .]  Justification of the above-expressed confidence : it was fair and right for him to entertain it.
	 καθώς ] a word of later Greek, never used by the elder Attic writers; = καθό (Thuc.), καθά , καθάπερ (see Phryn. Lobeck, p. 425, and note). It takes up, and justifies by analogy, the confidence of the last verse.
	 ἐστιν δίκ  .   ἐμοί ] The usual classical constructions are, ἐμὲ δίκαιόν ἐστι φράζειν , Herod. i. 39: ἐμὲ δίκαιον … προσλαμβάνειν , Plato, Legg. x. 897; οὗτος δίκαιός ἐστι φέρεσθαι , ib. i. 32. But Ellic. remarks, that there is nothing unclassical in the present usage; and compares Plato, Rep. i. 334, δίκαιον τότε τούτοις τοὺς πονηροὺς ὠφελεῖν .
	 τοῦτο φρονεῖν ] viz. the confidence of Philippians 1:6 .
	 ὑπέρ ] because it is an opinion involving their good: see ref. Calov. and Wolf understand  φρον  .   ὑπέρ , ‘  to care for ,’ and  τοῦτο to refer to the prayer, Philippians 1:4 ; but unnaturally.
	 .   διὰ τό ] reason why he was justified, &c. as above,  με is the subject,  ὑμᾶς the object, as the context ( Php 1:8 ) clearly shews: not the converse, as Rosenm., al.
	 ἔν τε  … ] Chrys. finely says, καὶ τί θαυμαστόν , εἰ ἐν τῷ δεσμωτηρίῳ εἶχεν αὐτούς ; οὐδὲ γὰρ κατ ʼ ἐκεῖνον τὸν καιρόν , φησι , καθ ʼ ὃν εἰσῄειν εἰς τὸ δικαστήριον ἀπολογησόμενος , ἐξεπέσατέ μου τῆς μνήμης . οὕτω γάρ ἐστι τυραννικὸν ὁ ἔρως ὁ πνευματικός , ὡς μηδενὶ παραχωρεῖν καιρῷ , ἀλλ ʼ ἀεὶ τῆς ψυχῆς ἔχεσθαι τοῦ φιλοῦντος , καὶ μηδεμίαν θλίψιν καὶ ὀδύνην συγχωρεῖν περιγενέσθαι τῆς ψυχῆς .
	His  bonds were his situation: his  defence and confirmation of the Gospel his  employment in that situation; whether he refers to a  public defence ( 2Ti 4:16 ), or only to that defence of the Gospel, which he was constantly making in private. However this may be, the two,  ἀπολογ  . and  βεβαίωσις , are most naturally understood as referring to one and the same course of action: otherwise the  τῇ would be repeated before βεβ . One such ἀπολ . and βεβ . we have recorded in Acts 28:23 ff.
	These words,  ἔν τε  …   εὐαγγελίου , are most naturally taken with the foregoing (Chrys., al., Meyer, De W.), as punctuated in the text, not with the following (Calv., al.)  συγκοιν . κ . τ . λ ., which render a reason for the whole,  διὰ τό to  εὐαγγελίου .
	 συγκ  . ] See above.  ὑμᾶς is thus characterized: ‘Ye are fellow-partakers of my grace:’ the grace vouchsafed to me by God in Christ, see reff.: not the grace of  suffering in Him , as Philippians 1:29 (Meyer), still less the grace of  apostleship , Romans 1:5 , which the Philippians had furthered by their subsidies (Rosenm., al.): Php 1:8 decides the  χάρις to be spiritual in its meaning. The rendering  gaudii in the Vulg. must have arisen from reading χαρᾶς . The repetition of  ὑμᾶς , referring to a ὑμᾶς gone before, is usual in rhetorical sentences of a similar kind. So Demosth. p. 1225, ὧν ἀκούοντά  με , καὶ παρὰ τῶν ἀφικνουμένων …, τίνα  με οἴεσθε ψυχὴν ἔχειν ; But Bernhardy, Synt. p. 275, remarks that the most accurate writers in verse and prose do not thus repeat the personal pronoun. No such pleonasm is found in Homer or Plato.