 27 .]  μόνον , i.e. I have but this to ask of you, in the prospect of my return: see reff.
	 πολιτεύεσθε ] The πολίτενμα being the heavenly state, of which you are citizens, ch. Philippians 3:20 . The expression is found in Jos. (Antt. iii. 5. 8) and in Philo, and is very common in the fathers: e.g. Ps-Ignat. Trall. 9, p. 789, ὁ λόγος σὰρξ ἐγένετο , κ . ἐπολιτεύσατο ἄνευ ἁμαρτίας , Cyr. Jer. Catech. Illum. iv. 1, p. 51, ἰσάγγελον βίον πολιτεύεσθαι . See Suicer in voc. The emphasis is on ἀξίως τ . εὐ . τοῦ χρ .
	 ἵνα εἴτε κ . τ . λ .] This clause is loosely constructed, the verb  ἀκούσω belonging properly only to the second alternative, εἴτε ἀπών , but here following on both. Meyer tries to meet this by understanding ἀκούσω in the former case, ‘  hear from your own mouth :’ but obviously, ἰδών is the real correlative to ἀκούσω , only constructed in a loose manner: the full construction would be something of this kind, ἵνα , εἴτε ἐλθὼν κ . ἰδὼν ὑμᾶς εἴτε ἀπὼν κ . ἀκούσας τὰ περὶ ὑμῶν , γνῶ ὅτι στήκετε . Then  τὰ περὶ ὑμῶν  ,   ὅτι στήκετε is another irregular construction the article generalizing that which the ὅτι particularizes, as in οἶδά σε , τίς εἶ , and the like.
	 ἐν ἑνὶ πνεύματι ] refers to the unity of spirit in which the various members of the church would be fused and blended in the case of  perfect unity : but when Meyer and De W. deny that the Holy Spirit is meant, they forget that this one spirit of Christians united for their common faith would of necessity be the Spirit of God which penetrates and inspires them: cf. Ephesians 4:3-4 . Then, as this Spirit is the highest principle in us, he includes also the lower portion, the animal soul;
	 μιᾷ ψυχῇ συναθλοῦντες ] These words must be taken together, not  ψυχῇ taken with  στήκετε as in apposition with  πνεύματι (Chr., Thl., all.), which would leave  συναθλ  . without any modal qualification. The  ψυχή , receiving on the one hand influence from the spirit, on the other impressions from the outer world, is the sphere of the affections and moral energies, and thus is that in and by which the exertion here spoken of would take place.  συναθλοῦντες either  with one another (so Chr., Thdrt., Thl., Œc., all., De W., al.), or  with me (so Erasm., Luth., Beza, Bengel, al., Meyer). The former is I think preferable, both on account of the  ἑνὶ πν  . and  μιᾷ ψυχῇ , which naturally prepare the mind for an  united effort, and because  his own share in the contest which comes in as a new element in Philippians 1:30 , and which Meyer adduces as a reason for his view, seems to me, on that view, superfluous; ἐμοί after συναθλοῦτες (cf. ch. Php 4:3 ) would have expressed the whole. I would render then as E. V.,  striving together .  τῇ πίστει is a ‘dativus commodi’ for the faith, cf. Jud 1:3 not, as Erasm. Paraphr., ‘  with the faith ,’ ‘adjuvantes decertantem adversus impios evangelii fidem:’ for such a personification of πίστις would be without example: nor is it a dative of the  instrument (Beza, Calv., Grot., al.), which we have already had in ψυχῇ , and which could hardly be with τοῦ εὐαγ . added.