 10 .] Purpose of the increase in knowledge and perceptiveness:  with a view to your distinguishing things that are different , and so choosing the good, and refusing the evil. Meyer’s objection to this rendering that the purpose is, not such  distinction , but the approval of the good, is, after all, mere trifling: for the former is stated as implying the latter. He would render with Vulg., E. V., Chr. ( τὰ διαφέροντα , τουτέστι , τὰ συμφέροντα ), Thl., Erasm., Grot., Est., Beng., al., ‘  approving (or, as Ellic., with Syr., æth.,  ‘proving,’ ‘bringing to the test’ )  things that are excellent,’ which certainly is allowable, such sense of διαφέρω being justified by Matthew 10:31 , and τὰ διαφέροντα for  præstantiora occurring Xen. Hier. i. 3; Dio Cassius xliv. 25. But the simpler and more usual meaning of both verbs is preferable, and has been adopted by Thdrt. ( διακρίσεως , ὥστε εἰδέναι τίνα μὲν καλά , τίνα δὲ κρείττονα , τίνα δὲ παντάπασι τὰ διαφορὰν πρὸς ἄλληλα ἔχοντα ), Beza, Wolf, all., Wies., De Wette, al.
	 εἰλικρινεῖς ]  pure , a double derivation is given for the word. (1) εἵλη , κρίνω that which is proved in the sunlight, in which case it would be better written as it is often in our manuscripts, εἱλ .: and (2) εἶλος ( εἰλεῖν , ἴλλειν ), κρίνω : that which is proved by rapid shaking, as in sifting. This latter is defended by Stallbaum on Plato, Phæd. p. 66 A, where the word occurs in an ethical sense as here ( εἰλικρινεῖ τῇ διανοίᾳ χρώμενος αὐτὸ καθ ʼ αὑτὸ εἰλικρινὲς ἕκαστον ἐπιχειροίη θηρεύειν τῶν ὄντων ): see also ib., p. 81 C: and cf. Ellic.’s note here.
	 ἀπρόσκοποι ] here as in ref. Acts, used intransitively,  void of offence, without stumbling ; so Beza, Calv., De W., Wies., al. The transitive meaning, ‘  giving no offence ’ (see ref. 1 Cor.), is adopted by Chr. ( μηδένα σκανδαλίσαντες ), Thdrt. (?), al., Meyer, al.: but it has here no place in the context, where  other men are not in question.
	 εἰς ἡμέραν χριστοῦ ] See above on Philippians 1:6 ; but εἰς is not exactly = ἄχρι ; it has more the meaning of ‘  for ,’ ‘so that when that day comes, ye may be found.’ Our temporal use of ‘against’ exactly gives it.