 19 .]  for I know that this (viz. the greater spread of the preaching of Christ, last mentioned, Philippians 1:18 ; not as Thl., Calv., Est., De W., the θλίψιν ἐγείρ . κ . τ . λ ., in which case Php 1:18 would be (Mey.) arbitrarily passed over)  shall turn out to my salvation (  σωτηρία is variously interpreted: by Chrys. and Thdrt., of  deliverance from present custody; by Œc., of  sustenance in life : by Michaelis, of  victory over foes: by Grot., of the  salvation of others . But from the context it must refer to  his own spiritual good his own fruitfulness for Christ and glorification of Him, whether by his life or death; and so eventually his own  salvation , in  degree of blessedness, not in relation to the absolute fact itself),  through your prayer (his affection leads him to make this addition q. d. if you continue to pray for me; not without the help of your prayers: see similar expressions, 2 Corinthians 1:11 ; Romans 15:30-31 ; Phm 1:22 )  and (your)  supply (to me, by that prayer and its answer)  of the spirit of Jesus Christ (the construction obliges us to take  ἐπιχορηγίας as parallel with  δεήσεως , and as the article is wanting, as also included under the ὑμῶν . Were the sense as E. V., and ordinarily, ‘  through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ ,’ διὰ or διὰ τῆς would have been repeated, or at least the article τῆς expressed. This I still hold, notwithstanding Ellic.’s note. How such a meaning can  be dogmatically objectionable, I am wholly unable to see. Surely, that intercessory prayer should  attain its object , and the supply take place  in consequence of the prayer , is only in accord with the simplest idea of any reality in such prayer at all. Then again, is  τοῦ πνεύματος a subjective genitive, ‘  supply which the Spirit gives ,’ so Thdrt. ( τοῦ θείου μοι πν . χορηγοῦντος τὴν χάριν ), Calv., De W., Meyer, all.: or objective, the Spirit being  that which is supplied (so Chrys., Thl., Œc., Grot., Beng., al.)? Decidedly, I think, the latter, on account (1) of St. Paul’s own usage of ἐπιχορηγεῖν with this very word πνεῦμα in Galatians 3:5 , which is quite in point here, and (2) perhaps also, but see Ellic., of the arrangement of the words, which in the case of a subjective genitive would have been κ . τοῦ πν . Ἰ . χ . ἐπιχορηγίας , as in Ephesians 4:16 , διὰ πάσης ἁφῆς τῆς ἐπιχορηγίας . By a delicate touch at the same time of personal humility and loving appreciation of their spiritual eminence and value to him, he rests the advancement of his own salvation, on the supply of the Holy Spirit won for him by their prayers),