 5 .]  for (  ground of the εὐχ ., πάντοτε to ποιούμενος having been  epexegetical of it)  your fellowship (with one another: entire accord, unanimous action: not your fellowship  with me , ὅτι κοινωνοί μου γίνεσθε κ . συμμερισταὶ τῶν ἐπὶ τῷ εὐαγγελίῳ πόνων , Thl.: this must have been further specified, by μετ ʼ ἐμοῦ ( 1Jn 1:3 ) or the like. Still less must we with Estius, Wetst., al. (and nearly so Chrys.), render ἐπὶ τῇ κοινωνίᾳ ,  pro liberalitate vestra erga me )  as regards the Gospel (not ‘  in the Gospel ,’ as E. V. and Thdrt., κοινωνίαν δὲ τοῦ εὐαγγελίου τὴν πίστιν ἐκάλεσε : but thus it would be the genitive, and  εἰς τὸ εὐ  . can hardly be taken as equivalent to it: cf. κοινωνεῖν εἰς , ch. Philippians 4:15 . Their mutual accord was  for the purposes of the Gospel i.e. the perfecting, of which he proceeds to treat. “The article τῇ is not repeated after ὑμῶν , because κοινωνία εἰς τὸ εὐ . is conceived as one idea, together.” Meyer. Ellic. would understand  κοιν  . as absolute and abstract, ‘fellowship,’ not ‘contribution:’ including, without expressly mentioning, ‘that particular manifestation of it which so especially marked the liberal and warm-hearted Christians of Philippi.’ and it may well be so, even holding my former interpretation: this was the exhibition of their κοινωνία εἰς τὸ εὐαγγ .)  from the first day (of your receiving it)  until now . This last clause is by Lachm. and Meyer attached to πεποιθώς , but they are surely in error. The reason assigned is, that, if it had belonged to κοινωνίᾳ , &c., the article τῇ would have been repeated. But the same account which I have quoted from Meyer himself above of its omission after ὑμῶν will also apply to its omission here that the whole κοινωνία from the first is taken as one idea, and therefore this feature of it, that it was ἀπὸ τῆς πρ . ἡμ . ἄχρι τ . νῦν , need not be specially particularized by the definite article. It is St. Paul’s constant habit to place πέποιθα first in the sentence (cf. Romans 2:19 ; 2 Corinthians 2:3 ; Galatians 5:10 ; ch. Philippians 2:24 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:4 ; Philemon 1:21 ; also Mat 27:43 ), pregnant as it is with emphasis, and including the matter of confidence which follows: and we may certainly say that had this clause referred to πεποιθώς , it would have followed, not preceded it. Besides which, the emphatic αὐτὸ τοῦτο would be rendered altogether vapid, by so long an emphatic clause preceding the verb. Œcum., Beza, and Bengel connect the words with the distantly preceding verb εὐχαριστῶ , which (hardly however, as Ellic., on account of the pres. tense and πάντοτε ) is still more improbable.
	 πεποιθώς ] parallel with ποιούμενος  being (i.e. seeing I am)  confident of …
	 αὐτὸ τοῦτο ]  this very thing (it points out sharply and emphatically, implying, as here, that the very matter of confidence is one which will ensure the success of the δέησις . Conyb. renders it ‘  accordingly ,’ which is far too weak. As regards the construction, αὐτὸ τοῦτο is only a secondary accusative, of reference, not governed directly by πεποιθώς . It is immediately resolved into ὅτι ὁ ἐν . κ . τ . λ .).