 28 .]  πτύρω , akin to πτοέω , πτώσσω , πτήσσω ,  to frighten , especially said of animals (ref.), but often also used figuratively, e.g. by Plato, Axioch. p. 370 A, οὐκ ἄν ποτε πτυρείης τὸν θάνατον : Ps-Clem. Hom. ii. 39, p. 71, πτύραντες τοὺς ἀμαθεῖς ὄχλους .
	 ἐν μηδενί ]  in nothing , see on Philippians 1:20 .
	The  ἀντικείμενοι , from the comparison which follows with his own conflict, and the ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ πάσχειν , must be the  adversaries of the faith , whether Jews or Gentiles, cf. 1 Corinthians 16:9 .
	 ἥτις , viz. τὸ ὑμᾶς μὴ πτύρεσθαι , fem., on account of ἔνδειξις , following: see a similar ἥτις , Ephesians 3:13 .
	 ἔνδ  .   ἀπωλ  . , because it will shew that all their arts are of no avail against your union and firmness and hopefulness: and thus their own ruin (  spiritual , as the whole matter is spiritual), in hopelessly contending against you, is pointed out, not perhaps to themselves  as perceiving it , but to themselves if they  choose to perceive it.
	 ὑμῶν δὲ σω  . ] but (is a sign)  of your (see var. readd.)  salvation (  spiritual again: not merely,  rescue and safety from them ),  and this (viz. the  sign , to them of perdition, to you of your salvation: not to be referred to σωτηρίας , nor merely to ὑμῶν δὲ σωτ . (Calv., al.), nor to both ἀπωλ . and σωτ ., nor to the following sentence (Clem. Alex. (Strom. iv. 13, vol. i. p. 604 P.), Chrys., Thdrt., al.), but simply to ἔνδειξις : the sign is one from God)  from God, because (proof that the sign is from God, in that He has granted to  you the double proof of His favour, not only, &c.)  to you (first emphasis)  it was granted (second emphasis ‘gratiæ munus, signum salutis (?) est.’ Beng. The aorist refers to the fact in the dealings of God regarded as a historical whole),  on behalf of Christ (the Apostle seems to have intended immediately to add πάσχειν , but, the οὐ μόνον κ . τ . λ . coming between, he drops τὸ ὑπὲρ χριστοῦ for the present, and takes it up again by and by with ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ . The rendering of τὸ ὑπ . χ .,  absolute, ‘to you it is given in the behalf of Christ ’ (E. V.), ‘quod attinet ad Christi causam,’ is manifestly wrong),  not only to believe on Him, but also on his behalf to suffer ,