 23 .]  But (the contrast is to the decision involved in γνωρίζω )  I am perplexed (reff. and Act 18:5 note: held in, kept back from decision, which would be a setting at liberty)  by (  from the direction of , kept in on both sides)  the two (which have been mentioned, viz. τὸ ζῇν and τὸ ἀποθανεῖν not, which  follow : this is evident by the insignificant position of ἐκ τῶν δύο behind the emphatic verb συνέχομαι , whereas, had the two been the  new particulars about to be mentioned,  τὸ ἀναλῦσαι and τὸ ἐπιμένειν it would have been in ἐκ δὲ τῶν δύο συνέχομαι ),  having my desire towards (  εἰς belongs to ἔχων , not to ἐπιθυμίαν . The E. V., ‘  having a desire to ,’ would be ἐπιθυμίαν ἔχων τοῦ , and entirely misses the delicate sense)  departing (from this world used on account of σὺν χρ . εἶναι following. The  intransitive sense of  ἀναλύω is not properly such, but as in the Latin  solvere , elliptical, to  loose (anchor or the like: see reff.)  for departure, for return , &c.)  and being with Christ (“valet hic locus ad refellendum eorum deliramentum, qui animas a corporibus divisas dormire somniant: nam Paulus aperte testatur, nos frui Christi præsentia quum dissolvimur.” Calv.; and similarly Est. Thus much is true: but not perhaps that which some have inferred from our verse, that it shews a change of view respecting the nearness of the Lord’s advent for it is only said  in case of his death: he immediately takes it up ( Php 1:25 ) by an assurance that he should continue with them: and cf. Philippians 1:6 ; ch. Philippians 3:20-21 , which shew that the advent was still regarded as imminent),  for it is by far better (ref. Mark, and examples in Wetst, Plato, Hip. Maj. § 56, οἴει σοι κρεῖττον εἶναι ζῇν μᾶλλον ἢ τεθνάναι : Isocr. Helen. 213 c, οὕτως ἠγανάκτησεν ὥσθ ʼ ἡγήσατο κρεῖττον εἶναι τεθνάναι μᾶλλον : ib. Archidam. 134 c, πολὺ γὰρ κρεῖττον ἐν ταῖς δόξαις αἷς ἔχομεν τελευτῆσαι τὸν βίον μᾶλλον ἢ ζῇν ἐν ταῖς ἀτιμίαις :  but to continue (the preposition gives the sense of  still , cf. Rom 6:1 )  in my flesh (the article makes a slight distinction from ἐν σαρκί , abstract, Php 1:22 )  is more needful (this comparison contains in itself a mixed construction, between ἀναγκαῖον and αἱρετώτερον or the like)  on account of you (and others but the expressions of his love are now directed solely to them. Meyer quotes from Seneca, Epist. 98: ‘vitæ suæ adjici nihil desiderat sua causa, sed eorum, quibus utilis est.’ Cf. also a remarkable passage from id. Epist. 104 in Wetst.).