 22 .]  But if (the syllogistic, not the hypothetical ‘if:’ assuming that it is so)  the continuing to live in the flesh (epexegesis of τὸ ζῇν above),  this very thing ( τοῦτο directs attention to the antecedent as the principal or only subject of that which is to be asserted: this very ζῇν which I am undervaluing is)  is to me the fruit of my work (i.e. that in which the fruit of my apostolic ministry will be involved, the condition of that fruit being brought forth),  then (this use of  καί to introduce an apodosis is abundantly justified: cf. Simonides, fragm. Danae, εἰ δέ τοι δεινὸν τόγε δεινὸν ἦν , καί κεν ἐμῶν ῥημάτων λεπτὸν ὑπεῖχες οὖας : Hom. Il. ε . 897, εἰ δέ τευ ἐξ ἄλλου γε θεῶν γένευ ὧδ ʼ ἀΐδηλος , καί κεν δὴ πάλαι ἦσθα ἐνέρτερος οὐρανιώνων : Od. ξ . 112, αὐτὰρ ἐπεὶ δείπνησε κ . ἤραρε θυμὸν ἐδωδῇ , καί οἱ πλησάμενος δῶκε σκύφον , ᾧπερ ἔπινεν . And the construction is imitated by Virg. Georg. i. 200, ‘si brachia forte remisit, Atque illum præceps prono rapit alveus amni.’ See Hartung, Partikell. i. 130, where more examples are given. The primary sense is ‘also,’ introducing a  new feature for whereas he had before said that death was gain to him, he now says,  but , if life in the flesh is to be the fruit of my ministry, then (I must add, this besides arises ), &c.)  what (i.e. which of the two)  I shall choose (for myself)  I know not . The above rendering is in the main that of Chr., Thdrt., Œc, Thl., Erasm., Luth., Calv., all., Meyer, De Wette, and as it appears to me, the only one which will suit the construction and sense. Beza’s ‘an vero vivere in carne mihi operæ pretium sit et quid eligam ignoro,’ adopted (except in his omission of the τοῦτο and his rendering of καρπὸς ἔργου by ‘operæ pretium’) by Conyb., is open to several objections: (1) the harshness of attaching to οὐ γνωρίζω the two clauses εἰ …, and τί …: (2) the doubtfulness of such a construction at all as οὐ γνωρίζω , εἰ … (3) the extreme clumsiness of the sentence when constructed, “  whether this life in the flesh shall be the fruit of my labour, and what I shall choose, I know not ” (Conyb.): (4) in this last rendering, the lameness of the apodosis in the clause εἰ δὲ ( τὸ ζῇν ἐν σαρκὶ τοῦτό ) μοι καρπὸς ἔργου , which would certainly, were τοῦτο to be taken with τὸ ζῇν , have been καρπός μοι ἔργου or καρπὸς ἔργου μοι .