 13 .]  so that (effect of this εἰς προκ . ἐληλυθέναι )  my bonds (the fact of my imprisonment)  have become manifest in Christ (  φανερ  .   ἐν χριστῷ is to be taken together. They became known, not as a matter simply of notoriety, but of notoriety  in Christ , i.e. in connexion with Christ’s cause, as endured for Christ’s sake; and thus the Gospel was furthered)  in the whole prætorium (i.e. the  barrack of the prætorian guards attached to the palatium of Nero (Dio liii. 16, καλεῖται δὲ τὰ βασίλεια παλάτιον … ὅτι ἔν τε τῷ Παλατίῳ (monte Palatino) ὁ Καῖσαρ ᾤκει , καὶ ἐκεῖ τὸ στρατήγιον εἶχε . See Wieseler’s note, ii. 403 f.): not the  camp of the same outside the city (‘castra prætorianorum,’ Tac. Hist. i. 31: Suet. Tiber. 37). That this was so, is shewn by the greeting sent ch. Php 4:22 from οἱ ἐκ τῆς Καίσαρος οἰκίας , who would hardly have been mentioned in the other case. The word ‘  prætorium ’ is also used of castles or palaces belonging to Cæsar (Suet. Aug. 72, Tiber. 39, Calig. 37, Tit. 8), or to foreign princes (Acts 23:35 , Juv. x. 161), or even to private persons (Juv. i. 75): it cannot be shewn ever to have signified the palatium at Rome, but the above meanings approach so nearly to this, that it seems to me no serious objection can be taken to it. The fact here mentioned  may be traced to St. Paul being guarded by a prætorian soldier, and having full liberty of preaching the Gospel (Acts 28:30 f.): but more probably his situation had been changed since then, see Prolegg. to this Epistle, § iii. 6. I should now say that the ὅλῳ , and the τοῖς λοιποῖς πᾶσιν , make it more probable that the prætorium is to be taken in the larger acceptation, the quadrangular camp now forming part of Aurelian’s city walls, including also the smaller camp on the Palatine)  and to all the rest (a popular hyperbole: i.e., to others, besides those in the prætorium: not to be taken (Chr., Thdrt., E. V.) as governed by  ἐν and signifying, ‘  in all other places .’ The matter of fact interpretation would be, that the soldiers, and those who visited him, carried the fame of his being bound for Christ over all Rome),