 20 .]  according to (for it is ‘  our confidence , which hath great recompense of reward,’ Hebrews 10:35 f.)  my expectation (not, ‘  earnest expectation,’ which never seems to be the sense of  ἀπό in composition: still less is ἀπό superfluous: but καραδοκεῖν signifies to  ‘attend,’ ‘look out’ ( παρὰ τὴν κάραν ὅλην δοκεῖν (‘  observare’ ), Thl. ad loc.); and  ἀπό adds the signification of ‘  from a particular position ,’ or better still that of  exhaustion, ‘look out until it be fulfilled ,’ as in ‘  ex pectare,’  ἀπεκδέχιμαι  ,   ἀπέχω , &c. See the word thoroughly discussed the Fritzschiorum Opuscula, p. 150 ff.)  and hope that (Est., al., take ὅτι argumentatively,  because : but thus the expectation and hope will have no explanation, and the flow of the sentence will be broken)  in nothing (in no point, no particular, see ref. It should be kept quite indefinite, not specified as Chrys. ( κἂν ὁτιοῦν γένηται ). ‘  In none ’ (of those to whom the Gospel is preached) as Hoelemann, is beside the purpose no  persons are adduced, but only the most general considerations)  I shall be ashamed (general: have reason to take shame for my work for God, or His work in me),  but (on the contrary: but perhaps after the ἐν οὐδενί this need not be pressed)  in all (as contrasted with ἐν οὐδενί above)  boldness (contrast to  shame : boldness  on my part , seeing that life or death are both alike glorious for me and thus I, my body, the passive instrument in which Christ is glorified, shall any-how be bold and of good cheer in this His glorification of Himself in me)  as always, now also (that I am in the situation described above, Php 1:17 )  Christ shall be magnified ( δειχθήσεται ὅς ἐστι , Thdrt.: by His Kingdom being spread among men. So Ellicott, saying rightly that it is more than ‘  praised ,’ as in my earlier editions)  in my body (  my body being the  subject of  life or  death , in the occurrence of either of which he would not be ashamed, the one bringing active service for Christ, the other union with Him in heaven, Philippians 1:21 ff.),  either by (means of)  life or by (means of)  death .