 1 .] Timotheus seems to be named as being well known to the Philippians (Acts 16:3 ; Acts 16:10 ff.), and present with St. Paul at this time. The mention is merely formal, as the Apostle proceeds ( Php 1:3 ) in the first person singular. Certainly no  official character is intended to be given by it, as Huther, al., have thought: for of all the Epistles, this is the least official: and those to the Romans and Galatians, where no such mention occurs, the most so. Observe, there is no ἀπόστολος subjoined to Παῦλος (as in Col 1:1 ), probably because the Philippians needed no such reminiscence of his authority. Cf. also 1 and 2 Thess.
	On  δοῦλοι χρ  .   Ἰησ  . , see Ellicott.
	 πᾶσιν ] both here and in Philippians 1:4 ; Philippians 1:7-8 ; Philippians 1:25 ; ch. Philippians 2:17 ; Philippians 2:26 , is best accounted for from the warm affection which breathes through this whole Epistle (see on Php 1:3 ), not from any formal reason, as that the Apostle wishes to put those Philippians who had not sent to his support, on a level in his affection with those who had (Van Hengel), that he wishes to set himself above all their party divisions (ch. Philippians 2:3 ; so De W.), &c.
	 σὺν ἐπισκ  . ] This is read by Chrys.  συνεπισκόποις , and he remarks: τί τοῦτο ; μιᾶς πόλεως πολλοὶ ἐπίσκοποι ἦσαν ; οὐδαμῶς · ἀλλὰ τοὺς πρεσβυτέρους οὕτως ἐκάλεσε . τότε γὰρ τέως ἐκοινώνουν τοῖς ὀνόμασι , κ . διάκονος ὁ ἐπίσκοπος ἐλέγετο (see also var. readd.). But thus the construction would be imperfect, the  σύν having no reference. Theodoret remarks, ἐπισκόπους τοὺς πρεσβυτέρους καλεῖ · ἀμφότερα γὰρ εἶχον κατ ʼ ἐκεῖνον τὸν καιρὸν ὀνόματα , and alleges Acts 20:28 , Titus 1:5 ; Titus 1:7 , as shewing the same. See on the whole subject, my note on Acts 20:17 , and the article Bischof, by Jacobson, in Herzog’s Realencyclopädie für protestantische Theologie u. Kirche.
	 κ  .   διακόνοις ] See on Romans 12:7 ; Romans 16:1 .
	Chrys. enquires why he writes  here to the κλῆρος as well as to the ἅγιοι , and not in the Epistles to the Romans, or Corinthians, or Ephesians. And he answers it, ὅτι αὐτοὶ καὶ ἀπέστειλαν , κ . ἐκαρποφόρησαν , κ . αὐτοὶ ἔπεμψαν πρὸς αὐτὸν τὸν Ἐπαφρόδιτον . But the true reason seems to be, the late date of our Epistle. The ecclesiastical offices were now more plainly distinguished than at the time when the two former of those Epistles were written. That to the Ephesians rests on grounds of its own. The simple juxtaposition of the officers with the members of the Church, and indeed  their being placed  after those members, shews, as it still seems to me, against Ellicott in loc., the absence of hierarchical views such as those in the Epistles of the apostolic fathers.