 11 16 .]  The triumphal coming forth of the Lord and His hosts to victory .  And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse (the same words, including the five following, as in ch. Revelation 6:2 . It is wonderful that this striking identity, in a book where symbolism is so constant to itself, has not prevented the mistakes which have been made in interpreting that place. This horse and Rider are (symbolically) the same as there: the νικῶν καὶ ἵνα νικήσῃ is on the point of its completion: the other horses and their riders, dark forms in His great world-long procession to victory, will now for ever vanish, and war and famine and pestilence be known no more),  and He that sitteth upon him [  called ]  faithful and true (see ref.),  and in righteousness He judgeth and warreth (both those acts being his concern in his present triumphant progress. Notice that the very construction with the participles καθήμενος and καλούμενος is the same as that in ch. Rev 6:2 ).  His eyes (the  δέ , as often, is best given in English by an asyndeton, marking a break in the sense, passing from the subjective to the objective description) [  were as ]  a flame of fire (ch. Rev 1:14 verbatim, again beyond question identifying Him),  and upon His head (accus.: see ch. Revelation 4:2 , note)  many diadems (probably as He is βασιλεὺς βασιλέων : so Ewald, De W., Hengstb. Certainly these are not the crowns of the ten kings, as Züllig, al., for they are yet to be overthrown, Revelation 19:19 ff. The στέφανος of ch. Rev 6:2 has become multiplied in the course of the subjection of the world to Him):  having [  names written (if these words are genuine, probably the meaning is that the names were inscribed on the diadems, signifying the import of each),  and ]  a name written (where, is not said. From this portion of the description regarding His head, probably on the Brow)  which none knoweth except Himself (what name is indicated? Certainly not that given below, Revelation 19:13 ; nor can these words mean that He Himself alone knows the mystery latent in that name (so Vitringa, al.). Nor again can we say that it is any of the names by which our blessed Lord is known to us already (so Ewald, al.). But it is the τὸ ὄνομά μου τὸ καινόν of ch. Revelation 3:12 ; some new and glorious name, indicative, as appears from the context there, of the completed union between Him and His people, and of His final triumph. This name the Apostle saw written, but knew not its import: that, like the contents of the sealed book, being reserved for the day when He shall reveal it):  and clothed in a vesture dipped in blood (see Isaiah 63:2-3 ; which is clearly in contemplation here, from our Revelation 19:15 b. This being so, it is better perhaps to avoid the idea of His own blood being in view):  and His name is called, The Word of God (this title forms so plain a link between the Apocalypse and St. John’s writings, where only it occurs, that various attempts have been made by those who reject his authorship, to deprive it of that significance. I have discussed these in the Prolegomena, § i. parr. 110, 111).  And the armies which are in heaven (not the holy angels only, as De W. and Hengstb., but the glorified saints: the οἱ μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ of ch. Revelation 17:14 , who are spoken of in reference to this very triumph, and are said to be κλητοὶ καὶ ἐκλεκτοὶ καὶ πιστοί )  followed Him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen [  raiment ]  white, pure (this clothing also speaks for the saints being included in the triumphal procession: see Revelation 19:8 , and ch. Rev 6:11 ).  And out of His mouth goeth forth a sharp sword (see ch. Revelation 1:16 , Revelation 2:12 ; Rev 2:16 ),  that with (  ἐν , as invested in or with)  it he may smite the nations; and He (there is an emphasis in this and the following clause on  αὐτός , which however would be too strongly rendered by “  himself ”)  shall rule (see ch. Revelation 2:27 , Revelation 12:5 , and note)  them (masc.; their component members being in the Writer’s mind)  with a rod of iron: and He (and none other, as we know from Isa 63:3 )  treadeth (it is His office to tread)  the winepress of the wine of the fierceness of the wrath (of the outbreaking of the anger: see on ch. Rev 16:19 )  of Almighty God. And He hath upon His vesture and upon His thigh a name written (i. e. most naturally, written at length, partly on the vesture, partly on the thigh itself; at the part where, in an equestrian figure, the robe drops from the thigh. The usual way of taking the words is to suppose the καί epexegetic or definitive of the former words, “on His vesture,” and that on the part of it covering His thigh. So De W., Düsterd., al. Others imagine (so Grot., al.) a sword, on the hilt of which the name is inscribed. But there is no trace of this in the text. Wetst. quotes Cicero, Verr. iv. 43, “Signum Apollinis pulcherrimum, cujus in femore literulis minutis argenteis nomen Myronis erat inscriptum:” and Pausanias, Eliac. extr., ἀνάθημα … ἀνδρὸς εἰκὼν … ἐλεγεῖον δὲ ἐπ ʼ αὐτὸ γεγραμμένον ἐστὶν ἐπὶ τοῦ μηροῦ , Ζῆνι θεῶν βασιλεῖ μ ʼ ἀκροθίνιον ἐνθάδ ʼ ἔθηκαν Μενδαῖοι . See also Herod. ii. 106, where the inscription runs across the chest from shoulder to shoulder),  King of Kings, and Lord of Lords (ch. Rev 17:14 ).