 9, 10 .] The Bride in this blessed marriage being in fact the  sum of the guests at its celebration, the discourse passes to  their blessedness, and an assurance of the certainty of that which has been foretold respecting them. The Apostle, moved by these declarations, falls down to worship the angel, but is forbidden .  And he saith (who? the only answer ready to our hand is, the angel of ch. Revelation 17:1 . Some, as Ewald and Ebrard, suppose some one angel to have been constantly with St. John throughout the visions: but there seems no reason for this)  to me, Write (cf. ch. Rev 14:13 )  Blessed are they who are bidden (see reff.: and bear in mind, throughout, our Lord’s parables on this matter: Matthew 22:1 ff; Matthew 25:1 ff. Our ch. Rev 3:20 furnishes us with a link binding on the spiritual import to the figure)  to the supper of the marriage of the Lamb. And he saith to me (the solemn repetition of this formula shews that what follows it is a new and important declaration),  These sayings (cf. ch. Revelation 17:17 . If we understand that the speaker is the angel of ch. Revelation 17:1 , then οὗτοι οἱ λόγοι will most naturally include the prophecies and revelations since then)  are the true (we should hardly be justified, in a book where ἀληθινός has repeatedly occurred in a sense hardly distinguishable from ἀληθής , in pressing it here to its more proper meaning of “  genuine ” (as Düsterd.), which would very well suit the sense in this place) (  sayings )  of God (are the very truth of God, and shall veritably come to pass).
	 And I fell down before his feet to worship him (out of an overweening reverence for one who had imparted to him such great things: see also ch. Revelation 22:8 , where the same again takes place at the end of the whole revelation, and after a similar assurance. The angel who had thus guaranteed to him, in the name of God, the certainty of these great revelations, seems to him worthy of some of that reverence which belongs to God Himself. The reason given by Düsterd., that in both cases John imagined the Lord Himself to be speaking to him, is sufficiently contradicted by the plain assertion, here in ch. Revelation 17:1 , and there in ch. Rev 22:8 itself, that it was not a divine Person, but simply an angel):  and he saith to me, Take heed not (to do it):  I am a fellow-servant of thine, and (a fellow-servant)  of thy brethren who have the testimony of Jesus (as in reff.: on the former of which see note):  worship God (both words are emphatic: let  προσκύνησις be reserved for  Him ),  for (these words following are those of the  angel , not of the Apostle, as Düsterd.: Revelation 19:8 , and ch. Revelation 5:8 , where the Apostle gives explanations, are no rule for this place, where the explanation of necessity comes from the speaker, whose reason for prohibiting the offered homage it renders)  the testimony of Jesus (the gen. Ἰησοῦ is, as before,  objective : the testimony  borne to Jesus by these σύνδουλοι , men and angels)  is the spirit of prophecy (there is no real difficulty in this saying: no reason for destroying its force by making Ἰησοῦ subjective, and ἡ μαρτ · Ἰης . to mean “the witness which proceeds from Jesus” (Düst.). What the angel says is this: Thou and I and our brethren are all ἔχοντες τὴν μαρτυρίαν Ἰησοῦ (= μάρτυρες Ἰησοῦ , as uniformly in this book); and the way in which we bear this witness, the substance and essence of this testimony, is, the spirit of prophecy; ἓν πνεῦμα ἐποτίσθημεν . This Spirit, given to me in that I shew thee these things, given to thee in that thou seest and art to write them, is the token that we are fellow-servants and brethren. Thus Vitringa: “Idem ille Spiritus qui loquitur agitque per eos qui prædicant testimonium Christo, quod agebant Apostoli, idem ipse est, qui per me loquitur, qui missus sum a Domino ut res venturi temporis tibi declararem. Tanta itaque tua quanta mea est dignitas, sumusque adeo conservi ad officia non disparia honoris et gradus a Domino appellati.” It does not follow that every one of those ἐχόντων τὴν μαρτυρίαν Ἰησοῦ has, in the same distinguished degree, the Spirit of prophecy: but every such one  has the same Spirit, and that one Spirit, and no other, is the Spirit of prophecy).