 1 8 .]  The Church’s song of praise at the destruction of Babylon . As each of the great events and judgments in this book is celebrated by its song of praise in heaven, so this also: but more solemnly and formally than the others, seeing that this is the great accomplishment of God’s judgment on the enemy of His Church. Cf. ch. Revelation 4:8 ff., introducing, the whole heavenly scenery: Revelation 5:9 ff., celebrating the worthiness of the Lamb to open the book: Revelation 7:10 ff.: Revelation 11:15 ff., on the close fulfilment of God’s judgments at the sounding of the seventh trumpet: Revelation 15:3 , on the introduction of the series of the vials: Revelation 16:5 , on the retributive justice shewn in the pouring out of the third vial.
	 After these things I heard as it were a great voice of much multitude in heaven, of people saying (  λεγόντων is most naturally a second dependent genitive following on ὄχλου )  Hallelujah (the word so often found in the Psalter, הַלְלוּ־יָה , ‘Praise ye Jah,’ i. e. Jehovah. Perhaps it is hardly justifiable to lay, as Elliott has done, a stress on this Hebrew formula of praise being now first used, and to infer thence that the  Jews are indicated as bearing a prominent part in the following song. The formula must have passed, with the Psalter, into the Christian Church, being continually found in the LXX: and its use first here may be quite accounted for by the greatness and finality of this triumph),  the salvation and the glory and the might belong to our God: because true and just are His judgments: because He judged (the aorr. as before are proleptic. In this case they can be rendered by the simple past in English)  the great harlot, which corrupted (imperf.: whose habit it was to corrupt)  the earth in (  ἐν of the element of the corruption)  her fornication; and He exacted in vengeance the blood of His servants from her hand (so almost verbatim in 4 Kings Revelation 9:7 , καὶ ἐκδικήσεις τὰ αἵματα τῶν δούλων μου τῶν προφητῶν , καὶ τὰ αἵματα πάντων τῶν δούλων κυρίου ἐκ χειρὸς Ἰεζάβελ . The vengeance is considered as a penalty exacted, forced, out of the reluctant hand: see also Genesis 9:5 ; Ezekiel 33:6 , where the verb is ἐκζητεῖν ).  And a second time they said Hallelujah; and her smoke (of her burning, ch. Rev 18:9 al.: not, as Ewald, because τῆς πυρώσεως αὐτῆς is not added, of hell in general)  goeth up to the ages of the ages (this addition gives a reason for the praise, parallel with those introduced by ὅτι before).  And the twenty-four elders and the four living-beings fell down and worshipped God who sitteth upon the throne, saying Amen: Hallelujah (thereby confirming the general song of praise of the great multitude).  And a voice came forth from the throne (  ἀπό perhaps (De W.) gives more the direction than the actual source of the voice (  ἐκ , as rec.). It is useless to conjecture whose voice it is: but we may say that (  τῷ θεῷ  ἡμῶν ) it is not that of the Lamb, as Ew. and Hengstb. Our Lord never spoke thus: cf. John 20:17 , note)  saying, Give praise to our God, all His servants (cf. Psa 134:1 ), [  and ]  ye that fear Him, the small and the great (cf. Psa 115:13 ).  And I heard as it were the voice of much multitude (cf. Rev 19:1 ),  and as it were the voice of many waters, and as it were the voice of strong thunders, saying (nom. see ref.],  Hallelujah, because the Lord God Almighty reigneth (here is a case where we cannot approach the true sense of the aor.  ἐβασίλευσεν but by an English present: “  reigned ” would make the word apply to a past event limited in duration: “hath reigned” would even more strongly imply that the reign was over. It is well to note such cases, to shew the inadequacy of our past tenses to reproduce the Greek ones).  Let us rejoice and exult, and we will give the glory to Him: because the marriage of the Lamb is come (these words introduce to us transitionally a new series of visions respecting the final consummation of the union between Christ and His Church, which brings about the end, ch. Revelation 21:1 ff.: the solemn opening of which now immediately follows in Revelation 19:11 ff. This series, properly speaking, includes in itself the overthrow of the kings of the earth, the binding of Satan, the thousand years’ reign, the loosing of Satan, the final overthrow of the enemy, and the general judgment: but is not consummated except in the entire union of Christ and His with which the book concludes. So that the aorr. ἦλθεν , ἡτοίμασεν , are in a measure proleptic.
	This figure, of a marriage between the Lord and His people, is too frequent and familiar to need explanation. Cf. in the O. T. Isaiah 54:1-8 ; Ezekiel 16:7 ff.; Hosea 2:19 f.: and in the N. T., Matthew 9:15 [123] and note, Matthew 25:1 ff.; John 3:29 ; Ephesians 5:25 ff. Indeed it penetrates almost every where the thoughts and language used respecting Christ and the Church),  and his wife hath made herself ready (is complete in her adornment, as in next verse).
	 [123] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 And it was given to her (have we in these words still the voice of the celestial chorus, or are they merely narrative, written in the person of the Seer himself? It seems to me that the latter alternative is rendered necessary by the fact of the explanation, τὸ γὰρ κ . τ . λ ., being subjoined. Düsterd. makes the song end at λαμπρόν : but this seems harsh and disjointed. Moreover the  ἐδόθη is the regular formula narrandi of the book)  that (a construction of St. John’s, see reff.)  she should be clothed in fine linen raiment, bright (and)  pure (“Vides hic cultum gravem ut matronæ, non pompaticum qualis meretricis ante descriptus.” Grot.),  for the fine linen raiment is (imports, see Mat 26:26 reff.),  the righteousness of the saints (i. e. their pure and holy state, attained, as in the parallel description ch. Revelation 7:14 , is declared by the elder, by their having washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. The plur.  -  ματα is probably distributive, implying not many δικαιώματα to each one, as if they were merely good deeds, but one δικαίωμα to each of the saints, enveloping him as in a pure white robe of righteousness. Observe that here and every where, the white robe is not Christ’s righteousness imputed or put on, but  the saints righteousness , by virtue of being washed in His blood. It is  their own ; inherent, not imputed; but their own by their part in and union to Him).