 17 21 .]  Defeat and destruction of the beast and the false prophet and the kings of the earth : preceded by ( Rev 19:17-18 ) an  angelic proclamation , indicating the vastness of the slaughter.
	 And I saw an (one)  angel standing in the sun (not only as the place of brightness and glory becoming the herald of so great a victory, but also as the central station in mid-heaven for those to whom the call was to be made):  and he cried with a great voice, saying to all the birds which fly in mid-heaven, Come, be gathered together (see, on the whole of this proclamation, Ezekiel 39:17 ff., of which it is a close reproduction; also Mat 24:28 )  to the great banquet of God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains of thousands, and the flesh of strong men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all, free as well as bond, both small and great (this proclamation is evidently not to be pressed into a place in the prophecy, nor are its details to be sought in the interpretation, as has been done by Andreas and Primasius, who hold the birds to be angels, and Brightm., who holds them to be nations and churches. The insertion is made, as above, to shew the greatness and universality of the coming slaughter).  And I saw the beast (ch. Rev 13:1 )  and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together (as above under the sixth vial, ch. Revelation 16:12 ff., on the field of Harmagedon)  to make their war (viz. that predicted above, ch. Revelation 16:14 , Rev 17:14 )  with Him that sitteth upon the horse and with his army (  στρατεύματος , sing. probably as being  one , and having one Head, whereas  they are many, and under various leaders).  And the beast was taken (reff.),  and those with him (to wit, the ψευδοπροφήτης , and οἱ λοιποί , Revelation 19:21 ; or,  and with him the false prophet ),  the false prophet who wrought the miracles in his presence (cf. ch. Revelation 13:11-17 , by which it clearly appears that this false prophet is identical with that second beast),  with which he deceived those who received (not necessarily nor probably, who  had received, as E. V.: the aor. part. is contemporary, as usual, with the aor. verb: and is probably here used because the receiving the mark is one act, the worship ( προσκυνοῦντας ) a continued habit)  the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image (cf. ch. Revelation 13:14 ; Rev 13:16 ):  the two were cast alive into the lake of fire which burneth (the extraordinary concord, τοῦ πυρὸς τῆς καιομένης , appears to have been in the original text, and must be simply accepted as it stands)  with brimstone (viz. into Gehenna, or hell properly so called, Matthew 5:22 ; where also, after the millennium, Satan himself is cast, ch. Revelation 20:10 , and when their work is finally accomplished, Death and Hades, Revelation 20:14 a. This lake of fire constitutes the second death, Revelation 20:14 b, Revelation 21:8 . These only, and not the Lord’s human enemies yet, are cast into eternal punishment. The latter await the final Judgment, ch. Revelation 20:11 ff.).  And the rest (the βασιλεῖς and their στρατεύματα )  were slain with the sword of Him that sitteth on the horse, which (sword)  goeth forth out of His mouth (see Isaiah 11:4 ; 2 Thessalonians 2:8 . De Wette remarks, that it is a hint of the spiritual nature of this victory, that no battle seems actually to take place, but the Lord Himself, as in 2 Thess., destroys the adversaries with the sword out of his own mouth. But clearly,  all must not be thus spiritualized. For if so, what is this gathering? what is indicated by the coming forth of the Lord in glory and majesty? Why is His personal presence wanted for the victory?):  and all the birds were satiated with (out of, as the material of the satiety)  their flesh .