This discourse (peculiar to Matthew) was delivered on Tuesday preceding the crucifixion, although similar sayings (found in Luke 11:13) were uttered on a previous occasion. The intercourse with the Pharisees had been used by our Lord as a means of warning them. The warning had been unheeded; the intercourse had ceased; the crisis of their meditated crime was approaching. Our Lord therefore turns ‘to the multitudes and to his disciples’ (Matthew 23:1), and without passion or personal bitterness denounces these His enemies. Those who find this discourse too severe forget that God has revealed Himself in Christ as Holy Love. This awful severity proves Christ’s divine mission and character no less than His tender invitations to the sinner to come to Him. Indeed, it is a part of His mercy, since it warns His sheep against the coming of the wolf, guards us against the Pharisaism of our own hearts, which is so quick to rise against Him who redeemed us. Only One who knew Himself to be free from sin and clothed with Divine authority and power  should or  could utter such a discourse. The Sadducees are not mentioned; they were not earnest enough to oppose Him with bitterness. Moreover the Pharisees were still the leaders of the people and while Christ lived, His greatest foes.
	 The discourse begins with a description of the scribes and Pharisees (Matthew 23:2-7), which defines and respects their official position, but reproves their inconsistency, disclosing their true motive, namely, the praise of men. Then follows a practical application, enjoining an opposite course of conduct, calling for humility over against the pride which is the root of Pharisaism (Matthew 23:8-12). The more particular and terrible reproof follows (Matthew 23:13-36), containing  seven (or with the doubtful Matthew 23:14,  eight) woes against them as ‘hypocrites’ (the inevitable result of pride): for hindering men from entering the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 23:13); [for using religion as a cloak for covetousness (Matthew 23:14);] for proselyting zeal which ruined the proselytes (Matthew 23:15); for misguiding the people by their casuistry (Matthew 23:16-22); for sacrificing the great matters of religion to minor points of legalism (Matthew 23:23-24); for external purity joined with spiritual impurity (Matthew 23:25-26); for external appearance of sanctity joined with spiritual deadness and iniquity (Matthew 23:27-28); for exalting themselves above their persecuting fathers, in word and act, when they were themselves persecutors, even now preparing to fill up the measure of Jewish iniquity and unconsciously to bear its fearful penalty (Matthew 23:29; Matthew 23:36). Last of all comes a tender lamentation over Jerusalem, predicting its future desolation, yet breathing a hope for the distant future (Matthew 23:37-39). This was Christ’s last public discourse. The ‘multitudes’ saw Him next, when ‘He came forth wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe’ (John 19:5).
	