Analysis Of The ChapterIn Hebrews 3:0, the Jews valued their religion on many accounts. One was that it had been given by the instrumentality of distinguished prophets sent from God, and by the medium of angels. The apostle, in the previous chapters, had shown that in these respects the Christian religion had the advantage over theirs, for it had been communicated by one who was superior to any of the prophets, and who had a rank above the angels. Next to this, they valued their religion because it had been imparted by a Law-giver so eminent as Moses - a man more distinguished than any other one on earth as a legislator. To him they looked with pride as the founder of their economy, and the medium through whom God had given them their special laws. Next to him, their high priest was the most important functionary in the nation. He was at the head of their religion, and served to distinguish it from all others, for they had no conception of any form of true religion unless the office of high priest was recognized. The apostle, therefore, proceeds to show that in these respects the Christian religion had lost nothing, but had the advantage altogether - that it was founded by one superior to Moses, and that Christ as high priest was superior by far to the high priest of the Jews.This chapter Hebrews 3:0, and to Hebrews 4:13, relates to the first of these points, and is occupied with showing the superiority of the Redeemer to Moses, and the consequences which result from the admission of that fact. It consists, therefore, of two parts.I. The first is employed in showing that if the Author of the Christian religion is compared with Moses, he has the preference; Hebrews 3:1-6. Moses was indeed faithful, but it was “as a servant.” Christ was faithful, “as a son.” He had a rank as much above that of Moses as one who builds a house has over the house itself.II. The consequences that resulted from that; Hebrews 3:7-19, and Hebrews 4:1-13. The general doctrine here is, that there would be special danger in apostatizing from the Christian religion - danger far superior to that which was threatened to the Israelites if they were disobedient to Moses. In illustrating this, the apostle is naturally led to a statement of the warnings against defection under Moses, and of the consequences of unbelief and rebellion there. He entreats them, therefore, (1)Not to harden their hearts against God, as the Israelites did, who were excluded from Canaan; Hebrews 3:7-11. (2)To be on their guard against unbelief; Hebrews 2:12. (3)To exhort one another constantly, and to stimulate one another, that they might not fall away; Hebrews 2:13. (4)To hold the beginning of their confidence steadfast unto the end, and not to provoke God as they did who came out of Egypt; Hebrews 3:14-19.In the following chapter Hebrews 3:1-13 he completes the exhortation, by showing them that many who came out of Egypt were excluded from the promised land, and that there was equal danger now; and then proceeds with the comparison of Christ with the Jewish high priest, and extends that comparison through the remainder of the doctrinal part of the Epistle.