Ye shall have [εξετε] . The best texts read, exete, ye have. Be of good cheer [θαρσειτε] . Only here in John. I have overcome [νενικηκα] . The verb occurs only three times outside of John's writings. Only here in the Gospel, and frequently in First Epistle and Revelation. Uniformly of spiritual victory. ===John 17:0 CHAPTER XVII THE HIGH - PRIESTLY PRAYER. "Out of Christ 's divinely rich prayer - life there emerge, as from an ocean, the pearls of those single prayers of His that are preserved to us; the prayer given in the sermon on the Mount for the use of His people - Our Father; the ascription of praise to God at the departure from Galilee (Matthew 11:25); the prayers at the grave of Lazarus, and within the precincts of the temple; our high - priestly prayer; the supplication in Gethsemane, and the prayer - words of the Crucified One - Father, forgive them - Eli, Eli, - and the closing prayer, Father, into thy hands, etc., to which the exultant cry, It is finished, attaches itself, inasmuch as from one point of view, it may be regarded as a word of prayer. Add to these the mentions of the prayings, the thanksgivings, the heavenward sighings of Christ, as also His summonses and encouragements to prayer, and He appears as the Prince of humanity even in the realm of prayer; in the manner, likewise, in which He has concealed His prayer - life, exhibiting it only as there was necessity for its presentment. If we regard His work as a tree that towers into heaven and overshadows the world, His prayer - life is the root of this tree; His overcoming of the world rests upon the infinite depth of His self - presentation before God, His self - devotion to God, His self - immersion in God, His self - certitude and power from God. In His prayer - life the perfect truth of His human nature has also approved itself. The same who, as the Son of God, is complete revelation, is, as the Son of Man, complete religion" (Lange). In the "Lord 's Prayer" (Matthew 6:0.) Christ sets forth what His disciples should desire for themselves. In this prayer He indicates what He desires for them. It is interesting to study the forms in which the ideas of the Lord 's Prayer are reproduced and developed in this.