Through the eternal spirit [δια πνευματος αιωνιου] . For the rend. an. Dia through = by virtue of. Not the Holy Spirit, who is never so designated, but Christ 's own human spirit : the higher element of Christ 's being in his human life, which was charged with the eternal principle of the divine life. Comp. Romans 1:4; 1 Corinthians 14:45; 1 Peter 3:18; Hebrews 7:16. This is the key to the doctrine of Christ 's sacrifice. The significance and value of his atonement lie in the personal quality and motive of Christ himself which are back of the sacrificial act. The offering was the offering of Christ 's deepest self - his inmost personality. Therein consists the attraction of the cross, not to the shedding of blood, but to Christ himself. This is Christ 's own declaration, John 12:32. "I will draw all men unto me." Therein consists its potency for men : not in Christ 's satisfaction of justice by suffering a legal penalty, but in that the cross is the supreme expression of a divine spirit of love, truth, mercy, brotherhood, faith, ministry, unselfishness, holiness, - a spirit which goes out to men with divine intensity of purpose and yearning to draw them into its own sphere, and to make them partakers of its own eternal quality. This was a fact before the foundation of the world, is a fact today, and will be a fact so long as any life remains unreconciled to God. Atonement is eternal in virtue of the eternal spirit of Christ through which he offered himself to God. Offered himself without spot [εαυτον προσηνεγκεν αμωμον] . The two other elements which give superior validity to Christ 's sacrifice. It was voluntary, a self - offering, unlike that of brute beasts who had no volition and no sense of the reason why they were offered. It was spotless. He was a perfectly righteous, sinless being, perfectly and voluntarily obedient to the Father 's will, even unto the suffering of death. The legal victims were only physically unblemished according to ceremonial standards. Amwmov in LXX, technically, of victims, Exodus 29:1; Leviticus 1:3, Leviticus 1:10, etc. Purge your conscience [καθαριει την συνειδησιν ημων] For your rend. our. The superior nature of Christ 's sacrifice appears in its deeper effect. While the Levitical sacrifice accomplished only formal, ritual expiation, leaving the inner man unaffected, while it wrought externally and dealt with specific sins the effect of Christ 's sacrifice goes to the center of the moral and spiritual life, and cleanses the very fountainhead of being, thus doing its work where only an eternal spirit can do it. Kaqarizein to purge is not a classical word. In Class. kaqairein (also in LXX) : but kaqarizein appears in inscriptions in a ritual sense, and with ajpo from, as here, 211 thus showing that the word was not confined to biblical and ecclesiastical Greek. From dead works [απο νεκρων εργων] . The effect of Christ 's sacrifice upon the conscience transmits itself to the works, and fills them with the living energy of the eternal spirit. It changes the character of works by purging them of the element of death. This element belongs not only to works which are acknowledged as sinful and are committed by sinful men, but to works which go under the name of religious, yet are performed in a merely legal spirit. None the less, because it is preeminently the religion of faith, does Christianity apply the severest and most radical of tests to works. Professor Bruce truthfully says that "the severest test of Christ 's power to redeem is his ability to loose the bonds springing out of a legal religion, by which many are bound who have escaped the dominion of gross, sinful habits."