Wherefore [οθεν] . o P. Often in Hebrews. In all things to be made like unto his brethren [κατα παντα τοις αδελφοις ομοιωθηναι] . Comp. Philippians 2:7, ejn oJmoiwmati ajnqrwpwn genomenov having become in the likeness of men. Likeness is asserted without qualification. There was a complete and real likeness to humanity, a likeness which was closest just where the traces of the curse of sin were most apparent - in poverty, temptation, and violent and unmerited death. It behooved [ωφειλεν] . Indicating an obligation growing out of the position which Christ assumed : something which he owed to his position as the helper of his people. That he might be a merciful and faithful high priest [ινα ελεημων γενηται και πιστος αρχιερευς] . Rend. that he might be compassionate, and so (in consequence of being compassionate), a faithful high priest. The keynote of the Epistle, the high - priesthood of Christ, which is intimated in ch. 1 3, is here for the first time distinctly struck. Having shown that Christ delivers from the fear of death by nullifying the accusing power of sin, he now shows that he does this in his capacity of high priest, for which office it was necessary that he should be made like unto his human brethren. In the O. T. economy, the fear of death was especially connected with the approach to God of an impure worshipper (see Numbers 18:3, Numbers 18:5). This fear was mitigated or removed by the intervention of the Levitical priest, since it was the special charge of the priest so to discharge the service of the tabernacle that there might be no outbreak of divine wrath on the children of Israel (Numbers 18:5). Genhtai might show himself to be, or prove to be. The idea of compassion as an attribute of priests is not found in the O. T. On the contrary, the fault of the priests was their frequent lack of sympathy with the people (see Hosea 4:4-9). In the later Jewish history, and in N. T. times, the priestly aristocracy of the Sadducees was notoriously unfeeling and cruel. The idea of a compassionate and faithful high priest would appeal powerfully to Jewish readers, who knew the deficiency of the Aaronic priesthood in that particular. Pistov faithful, as an attribute of a priest, appears in 1 Samuel 2:35. The idea there is fidelity. He will do all that is in God 's mind. Comp. Hebrews 3:2. This implies trustworthiness. The idea here is, faithful in filling out the true ideal of the priesthood (ch. 5 1, 2), by being not a mere ceremonialist but a compassionate man. In things pertaining to God [τα προς τον θεον] . Comp. Romans 14:17. A technical phrase in Jewish liturgical language to denote the functions of worship. Const. with a faithful high priest, not with compassionate. To make reconciliation [εις το ιλασκεθαι] . See on propitiation, Romans 3:25. The verb only here and Luke 18:13.