In a certain place [που] . Only here and ch. 4 4, signifying indefinite quotation. It does not mean that the writer is ignorant of the author or of the place, but assumes that the readers know it, and that it is a matter of no moment who said it or where it is written. Testified [διεμαρτυρατο] . Mostly in Luke and Acts. Only here in Hebrews. In Paul only in 1st Thessalonians. See on 1 Thessalonians 2:12. It implies a solemn, earnest testimony. What is man. The Hebrew interrogation, mah, what, what kind of, implies "how small or insignificant" compared with the array of the heavenly bodies; not "how great is man." The son of man. Hebrew son of Adam, with a reference to his earthly nature as formed out of the dust. Very often in Ezekiel as a form of address to the prophet, LXX, uiJe ajnqrwpou son of man. The direct reference of these words cannot be to the Messiah, yet one is reminded that the Son of man was Christ 's own title for himself. Visitest [επισκεπτη] . The primary sense of the verb is to look upon; hence, to look after or inspect; to visit in order to inspect or help. Similarly the Latin visere means both to look at and to visit. An ejpiskopov is an overlooker, and ejpiskoph is visitation. The verb only here in Hebrews, o P., very often in LXX See on Matthew 25:36. Here in the sense of graciously and helpfully regarding; caring for. Thou madest him a little lower than the angels [ηλαττωσας] . Rend. thou didst for some little time make him lower than the angels. jElattoun to make less or inferior, only here, ver. 9, and John 3:30. Often in LXX (principally Sirach). Bracu ti, the Hebrew as A. V. a little; of degree. The LXX translators interpreted it, apparently, of time, "for some little time." Although there is precedent for both meanings in both Class. and N. T., the idea of time better suits the whole line of thought, and would probably, as Robertson Smith observes, have appeared to a Greek reader the more natural interpretation. For this sense see Isaiah 57:17; Acts 5:34. He who has been described as superior to the angels, was, for a short time, on the same plane with man, and identified with an economy which was under the administration of angels. This temporary subordination to angels was followed by permanent elevation over them. Par' ajggelouv. The Hebrew is m'elohim, than God. Elohim is used in a wide sense in O. T. : see, for instance, Psalms 82:6, where God addresses the judges by that titles and declares that he himself called them to their office and gave them their name and dignity. Comp. John 10:34 and Psalms 29:1, LXX uiJoi qeou sons of God, A. V. mighty. The LXX translators understand it, not as representing the personal God, but that which is divine, in which sense it would be appropriate to angels as having divine qualities.