It became [επρεπεν] . Not logical necessity [δει, ςερ. 1 ] , nor obligation growing out of circumstances (wfeilen, ver. 17), but an inner fitness in God 's dealing. Dr. Robertson Smith observes : "The whole course of nature and grace must find its explanation in God; and not merely in an abstract divine arbitnum, but in that which befits the divine nature." For whom - by whom [δι ονδι ου] . For whom, that is, for whose sake all things exist. God is the final cause of all things. This is not = eijv aujton ta panta unto whom are all things, Romans 11:36; which signifies that all things have their realization in God; while this means that all things have their reason in God. By whom, through whose agency, all things came into being. On dia applied to God, see on ch. Hebrews 1:2. These two emphasize the idea of fitness. It was becoming even to a God who is the beginning and the end of all things. In bringing many sons unto glory [πολλους υιους εις δοξαν αγαγοντα] . Const. bringing with him; 174 not with captain, which would mean "to perfect the captain, etc., as one who led many sons, etc." Agagonta is not to be explained who had brought, or after he had brought, with a reference to the O. T. saints, " he had brought many O. T. sons of God unto glory "; but rather, bringing as he did, or in bringing, as A. V. 175 Many sons, since their leader himself was a son. Unto glory, in accordance with the glory with which he himself had been crowned (ver. 9). The glory is not distinguished from the salvation immediately following. For the combination salvation and glory see 2 Timothy 2:10; Revelation 19:1. To make perfect [τελειωσαι] . Lit. to carry to the goal or consummation. The "perfecting" of Jesus corresponds to his being "crowned with glory and honor," although it is not a mere synonym for that phrase; for the writer conceives the perfecting not as an act but as a process. "To make perfect" does not imply moral imperfection in Jesus, but only the consummation of that human experience of sorrow and pain through which he must pass in order to become the leader of his people's salvation. The captain of their salvation [τον αρχηγον της σωτηριας αυτων] . Comp. Acts 5:31. jArchgov captain, quite frequent in LXX and Class. Rev. renders author, which misses the fact that the Son precedes the saved on the path to glory. The idea is rather leader, and is fairly expressed by captain.