Verily [δηπου] . N. T. o. Doubtless, as is well known. Took not on him [ου επιλαμβανεται] . Rend. he doth not take hold. Comp. Matthew 14:31; Mark 8:23; Acts 18:17. Absolutely, in the sense of help, Sir. 4 11. The Greek and Latin fathers explained the verb in the sense of appropriating. He did not appropriate the nature of angels. Angels did not need to be delivered from the fear of death. The nature of angels [αγγελων] . The nature is not in the Greek, and does not need to be supplied if ejpilambanetai is properly translated. Rend. not of angels doth he take hold. It is not angels who receive his help. The seed of Abraham. The one family of God, consisting of believers of both dispensations, but called by its O. T. name. See Psalms 105:6; Isaiah 41:8, and comp. Galatians 3:29. The O. T. name is selected because the writer is addressing Jews. The entire statement in vers. 16, 17 is not a mere repetition of vers. 14, 15. It carries out the line of thought and adds to it, while at the same time it presents a parallel argument to that in vers. 14, 15. Thus : vers. 14, 15, Christ took part of flesh and blood that he might deliver the children of God from the fear of death and the accusations of Satan : vers. 16, 17, Christ takes hold of the seed of Abraham, the church of God, and is made like unto his brethren, tempted as they are, in order that he may be a faithful high priest, making reconciliation for sin, thus doing away with the fear of death, and enabling his people to draw near to God with boldness. Comp. ch. Hebrews 4:15, Hebrews 4:16. Christ gives that peculiar help the necessity of which was exhibited in the O. T. economy under which the original seed of Abraham lived. The fear of death, arising from the consciousness of sin, could be relieved only by the intervention of the priest who stood between God and the sinner, and made reconciliation for sin. Jesus steps into the place of the high priest, and perfectly fulfills the priestly office. By his actual participation in the sorrows and temptations of humanity he is fitted to be a true sympathizer with human infirmity and temptation (ch. 5 2), a merciful and faithful high priest, making reconciliation for sin, and thus abolishing the fear of death.