Romans 11:32.  For.  This introduces another general principle of God’s dealings. It serves to establish Romans 11:30-31, especially the latter, which is but a restatement of the entire discussion since Romans 11:11. ‘Thus Romans 11:32 is at once the grand summary and the glorious key-stone impelling once more to the praise of God (Romans 11:33 ff.) of the whole preceding section of the Epistle’ (Meyer),  i.e.,   of chaps. 9-11
	 God shut up all; not, ‘hath concluded them all.’ The verb means ‘to shut up’ as in a prison (not necessarily ‘shut up together’); ‘hath’ is unnecessary, and ‘them’ is improperly supplied, as if the Jews only were meant. ‘All’ refers, however, to persons; comp. Galatians 3:22, where ‘all things  ’  occurs.
	 Unto disobedience; comp. Romans 11:30-31. This shutting up of all unto disobedience is an  effective,  not simply a  declarative  or  permissive,  activity of God. In the development and punishment of sin not in its origin
	 He orders all things so that this result occurs with the further purpose,  that he might have mercy upon all.  This gracious design has already been indicated in Romans 11:30-31. ‘All’ here refers to persons, and is to be interpreted in the light of other passages, particularly Galatians 3:22. To ex plain it as meaning ‘all nations’ is to weaken it; to limit it to the ‘elect’ is contrary to the parallel, and to the fact that the showing of mercy here on the earth seems to be indicated (so Godet). To refer it to the ultimate salvation of all individuals without exception, is contrary to Galatians 3:22 (where ‘all’ is qualified by ‘them that believe’), to many other passages, and introduces a mechanical and fatalistic theory of Divine operations. The verse, however, sheds light on the profound mystery of sin. It will be overruled through the more profound and exalted plan for general blessing. The universality of  sin  is overborne by the universality of  Divine grace;  comp. chap. Romans 5:12 ff.; 1 Corinthians 15:21-22. Here this universality is presented mainly with reference to the  proffering  of mercy, not its efficiency. God makes to every one (how we may not always perceive) this proffer, but it is nowhere stated that all men are actually redeemed. Belief and unbelief are antithetical, and only through the former is grace accepted. Redemption is not a matter of force, but of freedom; of freedom on God’s part as well as man’s. And the Apostle by the doxology which follows teaches us to leave what we cannot understand in this matter to the wisdom of this Free Being. We have learned Paul’s meaning only when we can join in this ascription of praise.
	