Romans 11:4.  But what saith the divine response. The word answering to ‘divine response’ occurs only here in the New Testament. But in a number of cases (see marginal references) the cognate verb occurs, and is usually rendered ‘warned of God.’ The meaning here is obvious; but the noun first had the sense of ‘business,’ the formal audience given to an ambassador, then a response from an oracle; this was not the classical sense, but occurs in Malachi 2:4; Malachi 2:4; 2Ma 11:17 .
	 I have left  remaining, etc. The citation is from 1 Kings 19:18, and varies, though not materially, from both the Hebrew and the LXX. The mistake of the latter in reading the verb is corrected by the Apostle. ‘Reserved’ is inexact; ‘left’ is bald; ‘left remaining’ brings out the thought that these had not been ‘killed’ (Romans 11:3).
	 To myself; this addition of the Apostle fairly presents the sense of the original: ‘as my possession and for my service, over against the idolatrous abomination’ (Meyer).
	 Seven thousand men. Probably a definite expression for an indefinite number; ‘seven’ need not be regarded as significant.
	 Who; of such a kind as, emphasizing the faithful character of the men; the Hebrew shows that these were all that remained faithful.
	 Never bowed the  knee; on any occasion.
	 To Baal. The feminine article is used by Paul, while the LXX. has the masculine article. Explanations: ( 1 .) An ellipsis, hence the rendering ‘to the image of Baal.’ The fact that the LXX. sometimes uses the feminine article with the name of the false deity, renders this improbable, and this sense would require a second article with Baal. ( 2 .) This heathen deity was conceived of as of both sexes (androgynous). This is quite probable, but not historically proven. It should be observed, however, that Astarte (Ashtaroth), the Phoenician goddess, is distinguished from the feminine Baal. ( 3 .) Some regard the feminine as an expression of contempt; but this is the least probable explanation. ‘Baal’ (signifying lord, ruler) was the sun-god, representing the active generative principle in nature. The greatest idolatrous apostasy among the Israelites was to the worship of this Phoenician deity, and the name occurs in the Old Testament history from the time of Moses to that of Jeremiah.