Romans 11:25.  For I would not, brethren, have yea ignorant. The Apostle thus introduces something important; see marginal references. ‘Brethren’ is addressed to the whole body of Christians, who were, however, mostly Gentiles (see Introd., in the Romans Book Comments). The decisive proof (‘for’) that the Jews shall be grafted in again (Romans 11:23-24) is found in the prophetic announcement now made by the Apostle (Romans 11:25-32).
	 Of this mystery. On the New Testament use of the word ‘mystery,’ see notes on Ephesians 1:9. It does not have the classical sense, but usually refers to a matter of fact, undiscovered by men themselves, which is made known to them by revelation from God. ‘Thus it frequently denotes with Paul the divine counsel of redemption through Christ, as a whole, or in particular parts of it, because it was veiled from men before God revealed it (Romans 16:25; 1 Corinthians 2:7-10; Ephesians 3:3-5). Whether the contents of a mystery have already become known through the preaching of the gospel, may be gathered from the scope of the particular passages’ (Meyer). Here the event revealed is future, hence Paul speaks prophetically, assuming that the contents of the mystery were as yet unknown to his readers. He regarded the revealed fact as a very important one, and as standing in intimate relations to the greatest mystery of all: the Personal Christ
	 Lest ye may be wise in your own conceits; they were in danger of cherishing their own incorrect views in regard to the future of Israel; the Apostle would prevent this by telling them the truth revealed to him. (There is a variation of reading here which does not alter the sense.)
	 That hardening hath happened (lit., ‘hath become’)  in part to Israel. ‘That’ introduces the contents of the mystery (extending to the word ‘saved’ in Romans 11:26). ‘Hardening’ (not ‘blindness,’ comp. Romans 11:7) is preferable to ‘hard-ness,’ since the process rather than the state is indicated. ‘In part’ is to be joined with the verb, not with ‘hardening,’ or ‘Israel.’ The ‘hardening’ has been spoken of in Romans 11:7, but the extent of it is here revealed. This thought would check the pride of the Gentiles.
	 Until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in. This is the second fact revealed, namely, that this hardening (‘in part’) will continue until another event occurs. No other explanation is grammatical; comp. Luke 21:24. Most modern commentators, though differing as to the exact sense of the word ‘fulness,’ agree in referring the phrase, ‘the fulness of the Gentiles.’ to the totality of the Gentiles, not including every individual, but the nations as a whole. It is more than ‘a great multitude,’ denoting rather the great majority. Some refer it to the  ‘ complement  ’  from the Gentiles to take the place of the rejected Jews, but this seems unnatural. ‘Come in’ points to their entrance among the people of God, conceived of throughout as  one.
	