Matthew 3:16.  From the water.  Mark: ‘out of.’ They probably stood in the water, but as both accounts do not so assert, this is not the essential fact.
	 And lo, the heavens were opened.  How, cannot be explained. Doubtless some miraculous appearance in the sky. Lange even suggests that the stars appeared. ‘Heaven, which was closed by the first Adam, is opened again over the second.’
	 Unto him and he saw,   i.e., Jesus; though John also saw it (John 1:33). The two statements are not contradictory, but point to a real appearance, seen by both the persons who were concerned in this solemn inauguration. ‘Unto Him’ may also mean ‘for him, ‘for his advantage.
	 The Spirit of God.  Only a Person could be thus embodied.
	 Descending as a dove.  Luke says, ‘in a bodily form, as a dove.’ This statement, in which all four Evangelists agree, is to be understood literally. A temporary embodiment of the Holy Spirit occurred to publicly inaugurate our Lord as the Messiah. The accidental, or even Providential, appearance of a real dove would not call for such marked mention in all four Gospels. The dove symbolizes perfect gentleness, purity, fulness of life and the power of communicating it.
	 Coming upon him.  John (John 1:32) says: ‘it abode upon Him;’ the outward sign was temporary, the anointing was permanent. His active ministry now begins.
	 The baptism with the Holy Ghost of One ‘conceived by the Holy Ghost,’ is a Divine mystery. In one light it was but the outward sign of that which was His already. At the same time our Lord had a human development (comp. Luke 2:40; Luke 2:52; Hebrews 5:8). It may aid us in apprehending the fact that the Son of God became a real man, to regard this event as marking the age of maturity; the attainment of the full consciousness of his nature and mission as the God-Man and Saviour. The time had come for Him to begin His official work, that time was marked by the visible sign of the Holy Ghost, here -spoken of; the Divine Spirit now entered ‘into some new relation with the Incarnate’ Son, with respect to the work of salvation, and the God-Man received some internal anointing for His work corresponding to the outward sign.’
	 Matthew 3:17.  And   lo  , a voice out of the heavens.  Heard by all who stood by, as on the mount of transfiguration (chap. Matthew 17:5).
	 This is.  A declaration to John that ‘this is’ the Messiah. Matthew, who pays special attention to the proof of the Messiahship of Jesus, probably gives the exact language; Mark and Luke give the substance: ‘Thou art.’
	 My  beloved Son,  lit, ‘My Son the beloved!’ Used in a unique sense. No one else was or could be a ‘Son,’ or ‘Beloved,’ as this Person was. The Divine nature and eternal Sonship of Christ are obviously implied.
	 In whom.  This clause is taken from Isaiah 42:1. See the direct quotation in chap. 12 , 18 .
	 I was well pleased.  The clause might be paraphrased: ‘On whom I fixed my delight.’ This means perfect complacency. The original indicates a past time, not a continued state. The latter sense is a possible one, declaring the eternal good pleasure of the Father in the Son, but this would be only a repetition of the previous declaration. The more grammatical sense points to the complacency of the Father in the Son, when He assumed the office of Mediator (comp. Ephesians 1:4; John 17:24). Hence the reference is to the past, not to the time of his baptism. His preexistence is implied, and the meaning is peculiarly appropriate in the circumstances. The Godhead eternally existing as Trinity was manifested, as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to us and for us in this occurrence, as throughout the economy of redemption. The revelation of the Trinity at the baptism of Jesus gives special significance to the formula of baptism: ‘in’ (or ‘into’) ‘the name of the Father,’ etc. By this attestation to his Sonship and Messiahship, Jesus was anointed as Prophet, Priest, and King. That such an occasion should involve miraculous events was to be expected. The supernatural becomes the natural in the life of a Divine human Person.
	