Matthew 3:11.  I indeed.  Contrast between himself and the One he heralded. He was not the judge; the Messiah would be.
	 With  (literally ‘in’)  water.  The person baptized stood in the water as the most convenient place, and may have been immersed, or the water was taken up and poured on his head.
	 Unto,   i.e., with a view to  repentance.
	 He that cometh after me,  the Messiah; assuming his speedy appearance, and that the hearers also expected him.
	 Mightier.  In himself   stronger and about to exert that strength.
	 Whose sandals I am not worthy to bear.  Sandals were fastened with a strap; comp. Mark 1:7, where there is a reference to unloosing this strap, here to carrying the sandals away after being unloosed. To perform for the Messiah this menial office of the meanest slave, was too honorable for one to whom all Judea resorted. This unexampled humility was stronger evidence of true greatness than the power he exerted as a preacher.  A  fit forerunner of the ‘meek and lowly’ Messiah. Here the  official superiority of Christ is spoken of, the superiority of  nature is declared in the Gospel according to John, John 1:0.
	 He shall baptise you.  Christ himself did not baptize (John 4:2). The contrast is between John’s baptism unto repentance, and the spiritual power which Christ would give (not the Christian rite), for full and entire salvation. The second baptism is figurative; hence nothing is suggested for or against the identity of John’s baptism and the Christian rite.
	 With, literally, ‘in.’  The parallel passage (Mark 1:8), makes it doubtful whether the literal sense is to De adhered to; see below also.
	 The Holy Ghost.  The third person of the Trinity; not a contrast between external water and internal spirit.
	 Fire.  ‘With’ is not to be supplied. Some refer this to the fire of judgment, as in Matthew 3:12; but the close connection with what precedes, and the actual appearance of ‘fire’ on the day of Pentecost (Acts 2:13), favor a reference to the powerful and purifying influences of the Holy Spirit (Isaiah 4:4; Jeremiah 5:14; Malachi 3:2). ‘In’ must not be pressed in either case, since the Holy Ghost is represented as poured out, and the fire on the day of Pentecost came down upon the disciples.
	