Matthew 3:4.  How John himself.  The dress and habits of John confirm the statement of Matthew 3:3. His dress, like that of Elijah, corresponded with his preaching. The resemblance to Elijah was possibly in the mind of the Evangelist, since our Lord in his public teaching (chap. Matthew 11:14; Matthew 17:12-13), referred the prophecy of Malachi (respecting Elijah) to John.
	 Camel’s hair.  The coarse cloth woven of the hair shed each year. The fine cloth called camlet, is made of the softer hairs. Zach. Matthew 14:3, suggests that this was the distinctive dress of the Old Testament prophets, but this is not certain. Elijah was thus distinguished (comp. 2 Kings 1:8).
	 A leathern girdle,  such as Elijah wore, of undressed hide. The austere dress befitted the austere preacher of repentance, whose ministry, like that of Elijah, aimed at bringing back the people to the spirit of their fathers (see Matthew 3:8-9).
	 His food. A more exact rendering than ‘meat.’
	 Locusts are still eaten in the East by the poorest class, and were allowed to be eaten by the Mosaic law (Leviticus 11:22). The older expositors, not aware that locusts were eaten, give conjectural explanations: Shrimps, cakes, etc. Wild honey. Abundant in Palestine, which is described as ‘flowing with milk and honey.’ The term is, however, used by other ancient authors, of a kind of honey which issued from fig trees, palms, and other trees. A still more meagre diet. Thus John came ‘neither eating nor drinking,’ a Nazarite. He probably did not enjoin this mode of life upon others. His position demanded it of him, and his actual self denial had a symbolical meaning, pointing to the repentance he preached. John was the forerunner of Christ; repentance the practice of baptizing proselytes, but this is uncertain, as is also the antiquity of this practice. The objection to this view of the derivation of John’s baptism, is that it would have presented him as the founder of a new sect, rather than as the restorer of the ancient ways. There is no hint that he was thus regarded. Only on this theory can the baptism of John be identified with Christian baptism. The children of proselytes were also baptized. A better view is that John, by his preaching of repentance, declared the uncleanness of the Jewish people, and baptized the individual Jew upon confession, as a sign of purification. Thus the rite was essentially a Jewish one, the final preparatory rite of the Old Testament economy, and hence not identical with precedes the assurance of salvation in our consciousness, but the coming of salvation is the great motive to repentance: ‘Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.’
	