Matthew 3:7.  But when he saw  coming to his baptism. Not ‘against his baptism,’ though he opposed them. They came to be baptized (‘for baptism’ is the sense of a briefer reading), but John saw they were not fit subjects. Luke represents John as speaking thus ‘to the multitudes.’ The coming of these leading people probably attracted a crowd to whom the language was equally applicable; or the Pharisees and Sadducees themselves formed ‘the multitudes,’ more closely defined by Matthew in accordance with the character of his Gospel.
	 The Pharisees and Sadducees.  Two opposing parties, here classed together in the same unworthy category. They afterwards stood together against Christ. According to Josephus, both parties originated about the same time, B.C. 154 - 144 . The Pharisees were the upholders of strict orthodox Judaism, including the traditions of the elders. The name probably means,  Separatists, but implies, not a separation from the rest of the people, although this occurred to some extent, out their desire to separate the Jews from other nations. They represented one great form of religious error, that of outward legalism and traditionalism, hence of superstition, of self-righteousness, of hypocrisy, of lifeless orthodoxy, a pernicious tendency that has continued. While our Lord lived on earth, they were his bitterest opponents.
	 The Sadducees  (  so named from their supposed founder, Zadok),  represent the opposite tendency of skepticism,   rationalism, and unbelief. They rejected tradition,   and probably even the later books of the Old Testament, denied the immortality of the soul, the existence of angels, etc., and conformed greatly to heathen customs. Out of   Christ the majority of men belong to one or the   other of these schools.
	 A third school existed, the Essenes. They are not mentioned in the Gospels, probably because they stood aloof. Their daily lustrations would lead them to attach little importance to the baptism of John. They may be called the Jewish mystics, and represent a tendency less universal than the other two schools. They stood no nearer to Christianity than the Pharisees and Sadducees, for they adopted both Jewish purifications, and Alexandrian philosophy. Among the Greeks and Romans the Stoics correspond to the Pharisees, the Epicureans to the Sadducees, the Platonists to the mystical and ascetic Essenes.
	 The two leading schools seem at first to have recognized John as a prophet, but his words soon aroused dislike. This grew into enmity when he announced Jesus as the Messiah, so that afterwards they tacitly denied his authority (comp. Luke vii 30 ; Matthew 21:25-27). The new teacher lost popularity when he rebuked sin and pointed to Christ.
	 Brood of vipers.  The phrase characterizes them as both deceitful and malicious. John probably alludes to the expression, ‘seed of the serpent’(Genesis 3:15); in spite of their descent from Abraham, he thus classes them among those over whom the seed of the woman should obtain the victory. This explanation takes away the apparent harshness, is in keeping with what follows, and appropriately applied by one who heralded the coming of Christ, to those who caused His death (thus bruising his heel).
	 Who warned you?  Intimated to you, gave you a hint of. John expresses surprise that such as they could take the hint.
	 To flee,   i.e., to attempt to escape, as they were professing to do, or were actually doing. If the first be the sense, then John doubted their sincerity; if the latter, he would insist on thorough work.
	 The wrath to come,  or, the coming, impending wrath of God, here identified with punishment itself. Foretold by Malachi (Matthew 3:2; Matthew 4:5), in connection with the forerunner of the Messiah. Hence troublous times were anticipated. The fear of these times rather than of the future judgment moved the Pharisees and Sadducees, while John himself foretold the fate of the Jewish nation as part of the ‘impending wrath.’