44.It is sown an animal body. As he could not express each particular by enumerating one by one, he sums up all comprehensively in one word, by saying that the body is now animal, (108) but it will then be spiritual. Now that is called animal which is quickened by ( anima ) the soul: that is spiritual which is quickened by the Spirit. (109) Now it is the soul that quickens the body, so as to keep it from being a dead carcase. Hence it takes its title very properly from it. After the resurrection, on the other hand, that quickening influence, which it will receive from the Spirit, will be more excellent. (110) Let us, however, always bear in mind, what we have seen previously — that the substance of the body is the same, (111) and that it is the quality only that is here treated of. Let the present quality of the body be called, for the sake of greater plainness, animation; (112) let the future receive the name of inspiration. For as to the soul’s now quickening the body, that is effected through the intervention of many helps; for we stand in need of drink, food, clothing, sleep, and other things of a similar nature. Hence the weakness of animation is clearly manifested. The energy of the Spirit, on the other hand, for quickening, will be much more complete, and, consequently, exempted from necessities of that nature. This is the simple and genuine meaning of the Apostle; that no one may, by philosophizing farther, indulge in airy speculations, as those do, who suppose that the substance of the body will be spiritual, while there is no mention made here of substance, and no change will be made upon it. (108) “It is generally agreed on by the best expositors, that ψυχικὸς here, as being opposed to πευματικὸς , (spiritual,) especially as the expression is used with a reference to the words of Moses respecting the body of Adam, ἐγένετο εἰς ψυχὴν ζῶσαν (became a living soul,) must signify animal, (literally that which draws in the breath of life, necessary to the existence of all animal bodies,) that which is endowed with faculties of sense, and has need of food, drink, and sleep for its support.” — Bloomfield. “Ψυχικὸν not φυσικὸν. (says Granville Penn,) and therefore not ‘naturale ’ but ‘animale ,’ as rendered in the Latin. Wiclif,” (he adds,) “strangely rendered, from the Vulg., ‘a beastli bodi, ’ in correcting whom, our revisers would have done well to prefer ‘animal’ to ‘natural.’” — Ed. (109) “Au reste la ou nous traduisons, Sensuel, il y auroit a le tourner au plus pres du Grec, Animal: c’est a dire, gouuerne et viuifie de l’ame. Voyla donc que signifie Le corps sensuel. Le corps spirituel est celuy qui est viuifie de l’Esprit;” — “ But what we translate sensual, might be rendered, more closely to the Greek, animal: that is to say, governed and quickened by the soul. Mark then what is meant by the sensual body. The spiritual body is that which is quickened by the Spirit.” (110) “Sera vne chose beaucoup plus excellente;” — “Will be a thing much more excellent.” (111) “La substance du corps sera tousiours vne;” — “ The substance of the body will always be the same.” (112) “Animation, qui est nom descendant de ce mot Ame ;” — “Animation, which is a name derived from this word Soul. ” 