31. spake—"were
	speaking." 
	of his decease—"departure";
	beautiful euphemism (softened term) for death, which Peter,
	who witnessed the scene, uses to express his own expected death, and
	the use of which single term seems to have recalled the whole by a
	sudden rush of recollection, and occasioned that delightful allusion
	to this scene which we find in  :-. 
	which he should
	accomplish—"was to fulfil." 
	at Jerusalem—Mark the
	historical character and local features which Christ's
	death assumed to these glorified men—as important as it is
	charming—and see on Luke 2:11.
	What now may be gathered from this statement? (1) That a dying
	Messiah is the great article of the true Jewish theology. For a
	long time the Church had fallen clean away from the faith of this
	article, and even from a preparedness to receive it. But here we have
	that jewel raked out of the dunghill of Jewish traditions, and by the
	true representatives of the Church of old made the one subject of
	talk with Christ Himself. (2) The adoring gratitude of glorified
	men for His undertaking to accomplish such a decease; their felt
	dependence upon it for the glory in which they appeared; their
	profound interest in the progress of it, their humble solaces and
	encouragements to go through with it; and their sense of its peerless
	and overwhelming glory. "Go, matchless, adored One, a Lamb
	to the slaughter! rejected of men, but chosen of God and precious;
	dishonored, abhorred, and soon to be slain by men, but worshipped by
	cherubim, ready to be greeted by all heaven. In virtue of that
	decease we are here; our all is suspended on it and wrapped up in it.
	Thine every step is watched by us with ineffable interest; and though
	it were too high an honor to us to be permitted to drop a word of
	cheer into that precious but now clouded spirit, yet, as the
	first-fruits of harvest; the very joy set before Him, we cannot
	choose but tell Him that what is the depth of shame to Him is covered
	with glory in the eyes of Heaven, that the Cross to Him is the Crown
	to us, that that 'decease' is all our salvation and all our desire."
	And who can doubt that such a scene did minister deep cheer to
	that spirit? It is said they "talked" not to Him,
	but "with Him"; and if they told Him how
	glorious His decease was, might He not fitly reply, "I know it,
	but your voice, as messengers from heaven come down to tell it Me, is
	music in Mine ears."