 1.   ἐπειδήπερ ] This compound, of rare occurrence, is in keeping with the rhetorical style of the preface. See Hartung, Partikellehre, i. p. 342. Valcknaer quotes from Ulpian a similar exordium: ἐπειδήπερ περὶ τούτου πολλοὶ ἐπεχείρησαν ἀπολογήσασθαι .
	 πολλοί ] Much depends on the meaning of this word, as guiding, or modifying, our opinion on the relation and sources of our Gospel histories. (1) That  the writers of our present Gospels exclusively cannot be meant, is evident; since, even  supposing Luke to have seen all three Gospels , one (that of John) was wholly, and another (that of Matthew) was in greater part, the production of an  eye-witness and minister of the word , which would leave only  one for the  πολλοί  . (2) Apocryphal Gospels  exclusively cannot be meant: for they would not be ‘  narrations concerning matters fully believed among us ,’ nor ‘  delivered by eye-witnesses and ministers of the word ,’ a great part of their contents being  excluded by this very author from his  own διήγησις . (3) A combination of these two  may be intended e.g. of the latter sort,  the Gospel according to the Hebrews , of the former,  that according to Mark , but then also how shall we make out the  πολλοί ? Our present apocryphal Gospels arose far later than any likely date which can be assigned to Luke’s Gospel: see Prolegomena to Luke, § iv. (4) I believe the only probable interpretation of the words to be, that many persons, in charge of Churches, or otherwise induced, drew up, here and there, statements (  narratives , διηγ .) of the  testimony of eye-witnesses and ὑπηρ . τ . λ . (see below), so far as they themselves had been able to collect them. (I do  not believe that either the Gospel of Matt. or that of Mark  are to be reckoned among these; or if they are, that Luke had seen or used them.) That such narratives should not have come down to us, is no matter of surprise: for (1) they would be absorbed by the more complete and sanctioned accounts of our present Evangelists; and (2) Church tradition has preserved very few fragments of authentic information of the apostolic age. It is probable that in almost every Church where an eye-witness preached, his testimony would be taken down, and framed into some διήγησις , more or less complete, of the life and sayings of the Lord.
	 ἐπεχείρησαν ]  have undertaken; or, as E. V.,  taken in hand. This does not necessarily imply the  insufficiency of such διηγήσεις , as Orig [1] , Ambr [2] , Theophyl., &c. have imagined. Nor is any such failure implied (as Bp. Wordsw.) in Acts 19:13 , where the  aorist also is used. The failure then was not in the ὀνομάζειν , but in the issue. In Acts 9:29 , the failure is conveyed by the  imperfect tense, not necessarily by the verb itself. The fact of that failure is indeed implied in Luke’s description of his own work but that, more because  it possessed completeness (whereas they were fragmentary) than from any difference in kind.
	 [1] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [2]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397
	 ἀνατάξασθαι ]  to draw up  to arrange.
	 διήγ  . ]  a setting forth: and so if in relation to  things past ,  a narration history. The word is clearly explained in Plato, Rep. iii. p. 392: ἆρ ʼ οὐ πάντα ὅσα ὑπὸ μυθολόγων ἢ ποιητῶν λέγεται , διήγησις οὖσα τυγχάνει ἢ γεγονότων ἢ ὄντων ἢ μελλόντων ; Τί γάρ , ἔφη , ἄλλο ; Ἆρα οὖν οὐχὶ ἤτοι ἁπλῇ διηγήσει ἢ διὰ μιμήσεως γιγνομένῃ ἢ δι ʼ ἀμφοτέρων περαίνουσιν :
	 πεπληρ  . , according to some, ‘  fulfilled .’ De Wette supports this by the meaning of πληρόω Acts 19:21 ; Acts 12:25 , which is beside the purpose. The more likely rendering is that of E. V.,  certainly believed. (Meyer would render it, ‘which have  found their completion among  us ,’ i.e. ‘us of the apostolic times;’ meaning ‘  Theophilus and himself ,’ &c. This, I think, gives too emphatic a sense to  ἐν ἡμῖν  , which can only mean as ordinarily, ‘  among us ,’ unless accompanied with some qualifying expression. His objection to the ordinary explanation, that the participle ought, according to it, to be subjective to the πράγματα , surely is of no force.) See reff. and note on 2 Timothy 4:5 ; 2 Timothy 4:17 .
	The use of the cognate noun πληροφορία supports this view: see 1 Thessalonians 1:5 ; Hebrews 6:11 . There does not appear to be any reference to the filling of the sails of a ship, as Bp. Wordsw. The word with its cognates occurs only in a figurative sense, derived from “filling full” without any special reference.
	 ἡμῖν ]  among us Christians, i.e. you and me, and all members of the Church of Christ so also the ἡμῖν in Luke 1:2 .