 3.   ἔδοξεν κἀμοί ] Luke by this classes himself with these πολλοί , and shews that he intended no disparagement nor blame to them, and was going to construct his own history from similar sources. The παρηκ . ἄν . πᾶσιν ἀκρ . which follows, implies however a conscious superiority of his own qualification for the work. There is here no  expressed claim to inspiration, but at the same time no  disclaimer of it. (The addition  et spiritui sancto , after κἀμοί , which is found in 3 lat. mss. and in got [5] ., makes the following clause an absurdity.)
	 [5] The Gothic version. Made from the Greek by Ulphilas about the middle of the  fourth century .
	 παρηκ  . ]  having traced down (by research), and so become accurately acquainted with. The word is used in just this sense by Demosth., περὶ τ . στ ., p. 285: ἐκεῖνος ὁ καιρὸς καὶ ἡ ἡμέρα ἐκείνη οὐ μόνον εὔνουν καὶ πλούσιον ἄνδρα ἐκάλει , ἀλλὰ καὶ  παρηκολουθηκότα τοῖς πράγμασιν ἐξ ἀρχῆς , καὶ συλλελογισμένον ὀρθῶς τίνος ἕνεκα ταῦτ ʼ ἔπραττεν ὁ Φίλ ., καὶ τί βουλόμενος .
	 ἄνωθεν ]  from the beginning i.e. as in Luke 1:5 ; as distinguished from those who only wrote of the  official life of the Lord, or only fragments perhaps of that.
	 καθεξῆς  , consecutively: see reff. By this word we must not understand Luke to lay claim to any  especial chronological accuracy in  writing; which indeed is not found in his Gospel. He  traced the events in order as they happened: but he may have  arranged them as other considerations led him. The word is of later usage, e.g. by Plutarch, Ælian, &c. The classics have ἐφεξῆς .
	 κράτ  . θ  εόφ  . ] It is wholly unknown who this person was. The name was a very common one. The conjectures about him are endless, and entirely without value. It appears that he was a person of dignity (see reff. on κράτιστ .), and a convert to Christianity.
	The idea of the name being not a proper, but a  feigned one , designating ‘those who loved God’ (found as early as Epiphanius, Hær. ii. 51, p. 429, εἴτουν τινὶ Θεοφίλῳ τότε γράφων τοῦτο ἔλεγεν , ἢ παντὶ ἀνθρώπῳ θεὸν ἀγαπῶντι : and adopted again recently by Bp. Wordsworth), is far-fetched and improbable.