Our earthly house of this tabernacle [η επιγειος ημων οικια του σκηνους] . 145 Earthly, not, made of earth, which would be coikov as 1 Corinthians 14:47; but upon the earth, terrestrial, as 1 Corinthians 14:40; Philippians 2:10. Tabernacle [σκηνος] tent or hut. In later writers, especially the Platonists, Pythagoreans, and medical authors, used to denote the body. Thus Hippocrates : "A great vein by which the whole body [σκηνος] is nourished." Some expositors think that Paul uses the word here simply in this sense - the house which is the body. But while Paul does mean the body, he preserves the figurative sense of the word tabernacle; for he never uses this term elsewhere as synonymous with the body. The figure of the tent suits the contrast with the building, and would naturally suggest itself to the tent - maker. 146 The phrase earthly house of the tabernacle expresses a single conception - the dwelling which is, or consists in the tabernacle, the tent - house. The transient character of the body is thus indicated. Compare houses of clay, Job 4:19. See on the kindred words skhnwma tabernacle, 2 Peter 1:13; and skhnow to dwell in or to fix a tabernacle, John 1:14. Tabernacle is so habitually associated with a house of worship, and is so often applied to durable structures, that the original sense of a tent is in danger of being lost. It would be better to translate here by tent. The word tabernacle is a diminutive of the Latin taberna a hut or shed, which appears in tavern. Its root is ta, tan, to stretch or spread out. Dissolved [καταλυθη] . Lit., loosened down. Appropriate to taking down a tent. See on Mark 13:2; Luke 9:12; Acts 5:38; and compare 2 Peter 3:11, 2 Peter 3:12, and the figure of the parting of the silver cord on which the lamp is suspended, Ecclesiastes 12:6. Also Job 4:21, where the correct rendering is : Is not their tent - cord plucked up within them? So Rev. O. T. We have. The building from God is an actual possession in virtue of the believer 's union with Christ. It is just as we say of a minor, before he comes into possession of his property, that he has so much. Compare Matthew 19:21. Building of God [οικοδομην εκ θεου] . In contrast with tent. The reference is to the resurrection body. Compare the city which hath the foundations, Hebrews 11:10. For of God, read, as Rev., from, God; proceeding from [εκ] . Heinrici, von Gott her : compare God giveth, 1 Corinthians 14:38, and ecete ajpo Qeou ye have from God, where the reference is to the natural body, 1 Corinthians 6:19. Construe from God with building, not with we have. In the heavens. Construe with we have.