Philemon 1:6.  That the communication of thy faith.  The A. V. seems to fix the meaning of this difficult expression as being ‘that thy faith being communicated to others may,’ etc., as if the apostle’s prayer at this moment were for a   blessing on those among whom Philemon lived, rather than on Philemon himself; that they might become   faithful and give evidence thereof, even as he was doing. But the thought uppermost in St. Paul’s mind was that Philemon might add to the other tokens of his true faith, this further one, to receive Onesimus. And the word rendered communication (or fellowship  )  has the further sense of ‘bestowal, or imparting of a favour,’ which seems here to be preferred. Thus the prayer would be strictly for Philemon, that the good deeds which are evidence of his faith may work still more, and with this suit best the words that follow.
	 may become  effectual,  displaying its proper power. Good works, the fruits of faith, build up the Christian character to greater perfection. By doing what is already known, men come to know, and   hence to do, still more.
	 in  the full knowledge of every good thing.  The word, a favourite one with St. Paul and St. Peter, is not the simple word for ‘knowledge,’ but implies a continual growth therein, a constant learning, and approach to perfect knowledge. Philemon shows that he knows much of the spirit of Christ, and what in consequence should be the spirit of His people. But there is more to learn, and when learnt it will make clearer still to him how he should behave in the matter of his slaves. To deal in a   Christian manner with Onesimus is one of the good things for a full knowledge of which St. Paul intercedes with God on behalf of Philemon.
	 which is in you,  of which you are capable, unto which you may be able to attain. The apostle here speaks of the whole Christian church at Colossæ, or if the reading in us be accepted, of all Christians generally. He looks on men as not fully conscious of the good unto which through faith they may attain, but as gradually becoming more and more enlightened through the diligent following out of what they already know. Thus the full drift of his prayer is, that Philemon’s faith may teach him still more to do good to the brethren, and thus showing its true influence, may lead him to know to the full unto what goodness both he and the rest of the Christians, his fellows, may attain
	 in Christ Jesus.  Words that at once correct any proud thought of Christian advancement Christians may grow in grace and knowledge, and labour still more abundantly, but with them all it must be in the spirit of St. Paid himself: ‘1 can do all things through Him that strengtheneth me.’
	