17. Obey them that have the rule
	over you—(Compare Hebrews 13:7;
	Hebrews 13:24). This threefold
	mention of the rulers is peculiar to this Epistle. In other
	Epistles Paul includes the rulers in his exhortations. But
	here the address is limited to the general body of the Church,
	in contrast to the rulers to whom they are charged to yield
	reverent submission. Now this is just what might be expected when the
	apostle of the Gentiles was writing to the Palestine Christians,
	among whom James and the eleven apostles had exercised a more
	immediate authority. It was important he should not seem to set
	himself in opposition to their guides, but rather strengthen their
	hands; he claims no authority directly or indirectly over these
	rulers themselves [BIRKS].
	"Remember" your deceased rulers (Hebrews 13:24- :). "Obey" your living rulers; nay, more, not only
	obey in cases where no sacrifice of self is required, and
	where you are persuaded they are right (so the Greek,
	for "obey"), but "submit yourselves" as a
	matter of dutiful yielding, when your judgment and natural
	will incline you in an opposite direction. 
	they—on their part; so
	the Greek. As they do their part, so do you yours. So Paul
	exhorts, 1 Thessalonians 5:12; 1 Thessalonians 5:13.
	watch—"are
	vigilant" (Greek). 
	for—Greek, "in
	behalf of." 
	must give account—The
	strongest stimulus to watchfulness (1 Thessalonians 5:13- :). CHRYSOSTOM
	was deeply struck with these words, as he tells us [On the
	Priesthood, 6], "The fear of this threat continually
	agitates my soul." 
	do it—"watch for
	your soul's eternal salvation." It is a perilous responsibility
	for a man to have to give account for others' deeds, who is not
	sufficient for his own [ESTIUS,
	from AQUINAS]. I wonder
	whether it be possible that any of the rulers should be saved
	[CHRYSOSTOM]. Compare
	Paul's address to the elders, Acts 20:28;
	1 Corinthians 4:1-5, where also he
	connects ministers' responsibility with the account to be hereafter
	given (compare 1 Peter 5:4). 
	with joy—at your
	obedience; anticipating, too, that you shall be their "joy"
	in the day of giving account (1 Peter 5:4- :). 
	not with grief—at your
	disobedience; apprehending also that in the day of account you may be
	among the lost, instead of being their crown of rejoicing. In giving
	account, the stewards are liable to blame if aught be lost to the
	Master. "Mitigate their toil by every office of attention and
	respect, that with alacrity, rather than with grief, they may fulfil
	their duty, arduous enough in itself, even though no unpleasantness
	be added on your part" [GROTIUS].
	that—Grief in
	your pastors is unprofitable for you, for it weakens their
	spiritual power; nay, more, "the groans (so the Greek
	for 'grief') of other creatures are heard; how much more of pastors!"
	[BENGEL]. So God will be
	provoked to avenge on you their "groaning" (Greek).
	If they must render God an account of their negligence, so must you
	for your ingratitude to them [GROTIUS].