 13, 14. ] Our Lord, without noticing this, by His answer leaves it to be implied, that,  assuming what she has stated , He  is greater than Jacob: for his (Jacob’s) gift was of water which cannot satisfy: but the water which He should give has  living power , and becomes an eternal fountain within. This however, ‘that  He was greater than Jacob ,’ lies only in the background:  the water is the subject, as before.
	The words apply to every similar quenching of desire by earthly means: the desire springs up again; is not  satisfied , but only  postponed . The manna was as insufficient to satisfy hunger, as this water, thirst, see ch. John 6:49 ; John 6:58 : it is only the ὕδωρ  ζῶν , and the ἄρτος  τῆς ζωῆς  , which can  satisfy .
	The  ὁ πίνων sets forth the recurrence, the interrupted seasons, of the drinking of earthly water; the  ὃς δ  ʼ   ἂν πίῃ the  once having tasted , and ever continuing in the increasing power, and living forth-flowing, of that life-long draught.
	 οὐ μὴ διψήσει  , shall never have to go away and be exhausted, and come again to be filled; but shall have the spring at home, in his own breast, so that he can “  draw water with joy out of the wells of salvation ” ( Isa 12:3 ) at his pleasure. “Ubi sitis recurrit, hominis, non aquæ, defectus est.” Bengel.
	 γενήσεται πηγή ] All earthly supplies have access only into those lower parts of our being where the desires  work themselves out are but  local applications; but the heavenly gift of spiritual life which Jesus gives to those who believe on Him, enters into the  very secret and  highest place of their personal life , the  source whence the desires spring out; and, its nature being living and spiritual, it does not merely  supply , but it  lives and waxes onward, unto everlasting life,  in duration , and also  as producing and sustaining it .
	It should not be overlooked, that this discourse had, besides its manifold and wonderful meaning for us all, an especial moral one as applied to the woman, who, by successive draughts at the ‘broken cistern’ of carnal lust, had been vainly seeking solace: and this consideration serves to bind on the following verses (John 4:16 ff.) to the preceding, by another link besides those noticed below.