 54. ] The  meaning of the Evangelist clearly is, that this was the second  Galilæan miracle (see ch. John 3:2 , and Joh 4:45 ). But (1) how is that expressed in the words? The σημεῖα which He did at Jerusalem in the feast being omitted, the πάλιν δεύτερον σ . naturally carries the thoughts back to a former one related; and the clause added ( ἐλθὼν κ . τ . λ .) shews, not that a miracle prior to this, during this return visit, has been passed over, but that as the scene of this second was in Galilee, so that former one, to which δεύτ . refers, must be sought in Galilee also. And then (2)  why should this so particularly be stated? Certainly, it seems to me, on account of the part which this miracle bore in the calling out and assuring of faith by the manifestation of His glory, as that first one had done before. By that (ch. Joh 2:11 ), His disciples had been convinced: by this, one (himself a type of the weak and unworthy in faith) outside the circle of His own. By both, half-belief was strengthened into faith in Him: but in each case it is of a different kind.
	It is an interesting question, whether or not this miracle be the same as the healing of the centurion’s servant (or  son , Matt.?) in Matthew 8:5 ; Luke 7:1 . Irenæus  appears to hold the two narratives to be the same history (  appears only; for his words are, “Filium centurionis absens verbo curavit dicens Vade, filius tuus vivit,” Hær. ii. 22. 3, p. 147: which remark may be simply explained by his having cited from memory, and thus either made this βασιλικός a centurion, or, which is more probable, having understood the παῖς in Matthew 8:0 as a  son , and made our Lord there speak very similar words to those really uttered by Him, but which are in reality found here): so Eusebius also in his canons. Chrysostom notices, but opposes the view: and it has never in modern times gained many advocates, being only held by Semler, Seiffarth, and the interpreters of the Straussian school. Indeed, the internal evidence is all against it: not only (Chrys.) ἀπὸ τοῦ ἀξιώματος , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀπὸ τῆς πίστεως , does the man in one case differ from the man in the other. The inner kernel of the history is, in our case here,  the elevation of a weak and mere wonder-seeking faith into a deep conviction of the personal power and love of our Lord; in the other, the commendation of a noble confession of our Lord’s divine power, indicating great strength and grasp of faith, and inducing the greatest personal humility. And the external point brought out in the commendation, οὐδὲ ἐν τῷ Ἰσραήλ , is not only different from, but stands in absolute contrast with, the depreciating charge here, ἐὰν μὴ σημεῖα καὶ τέρατα ἴδητε , οὐ μὴ πιστεύσητε .
	Olshausen (whose commentary on John is far less elaborate than on the other Gospels, which may account for my referring less often to it) well remarks, that this narrative may be regarded as a sequel to the foregoing one.