 35. ] The sense of these much-controverted words will be best ascertained by narrowly observing the form of the sentence.
	 οὐχ ὑμεῖς λέγετε ὅτι  .… surely  cannot be the introduction to an observation of what was matter of fact at the time . Had the words been spoken  at a time when it wanted four months to the harvest , and had our Lord  intended to express this , is it conceivable that He should have thus introduced the remark? Would not,  must not, the question have been a  direct one in that case ‘  are there not four months? ’ &c. I know not how to account for this οὐχ ὑμεῖς λέγετε ὅτι .… except that it introduces  some common saying which the Jews, or perhaps the people of Galilee only, were in the habit of using.  Are not ye accustomed to say, that …? That we hear of no such proverb elsewhere, is not to the point; for such unrecorded sayings are among every people. That we do not know whence to date the four months, is again no objection: there may have been, in the part where the saying was usual (possibly in the land west of the lake of Tiberias, for those addressed were from thence, and the emphatic ὑμεῖς seems to point to some particular locality),  some fixed period in the year, the end of the sowing, or some religious anniversary, when it was  a common saying, that it wanted four months to harvest . And this might have been the first date in the year which had regard to the harvest, and so the best known in connexion with it.
	If this be so, all that has been built on  this saying, as giving a chronological date, must fall to the ground. (Lightfoot, Meyer (1), Wieseler, i. p. 215 ff., and others, maintain, that since the harvest began on the 16th of Nisan, we must reckon four months back from that time for this journey through Samaria, which would bring it to the middle of Chisleu, i.e. the beginning of December.)
	To get the meaning of the latter part of the verse, we must endeavour to follow, as far as may be, the train of thought which pervades the discourse. He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man: our Lord had now been employed in this His work. But not as in the natural year, so was it to be in the world’s lifetime. One-third of the year may elapse, or more, before the sown seed springs up; but the  sowing by the Son of Man comes late in time, and the harvest should immediately follow. The fields were whitening for it; these Samaritans (not that I believe He  pointed to them approaching , as Chrys. and most expositors. but had them in his view in what he said), and the multitudes in Galilee, were all nearly ready. In the discourse as far as John 4:38 , He is ὁ σπείρων , the disciples (see Acts 8:0 ) were οἱ θερίζοντες : He was the κεκοπιακώς , they were the εἰς τὸν κόπον αὐτοῦ εἰσεληλυθότες . The  past is used, as descriptive of the office which each held, not of the actual thing done. I cannot also but see an allusion to the words spoken by Joshua ( Jos 24:13 ),  on this very spot; ‘I have given you a land for which ye did not labour’ ἐφ ʼ ἣν οὐκ  ἐκοπιάσατε ἐπ ʼ αὐτῆς ( αὐτήν Α ).
	Taking this view,  I do not believe there was any allusion to the actual state of the fields at that time . The words  ἐπάρατε κ . τ . λ . are of course to be understood  literally; they were to lift up their eyes and look on the lands around them; and then came the assurance; ‘they are whitening already towards the harvest.’ And it seems to me that on  this view of the Lord speaking of spiritual things to them, and announcing to them the approach of the spiritual harvest,  and none else, the right understanding of the following verses depends .
	It is of course  possible that it  may have been seed-time; possible also, that the fields may have been  actually whitening for the harvest; but to lay down either of these as certain, and build chronological inferences on it, is quite unwarranted.
	 ἤδη belongs certainly to John 4:35 , and refers back to  ἔτι  . Taken with John 4:36 , it would not agree with the  truth of the comparison. The harvest was  not yet come . The ancient MSS. are not trustworthy guides in division and punctuation, which rather form matter of criticism, in which we stand on the same ground as they.