 44. ] Much difficulty has been found in the connexion of this verse, but unnecessarily. Some have supposed that the Evangelist means  Judæa by ἡ ἰδία πατρίς (Orig [66] , Lücke (second edn., but see below), Ebrard, &c.), which cannot be, for there is no allusion to Judæa at all here, as He came  from Samaria , and the verse manifestly alludes to His journey  into Galilee: some, that Capernaum is meant, or Nazareth, and ‘He went into Galilee,’ as distinguished from one or other of these places (Chrys., Euthym [67] , Cyril, Olsh.); but neither can this be, for our Evangelist does not so lightly pass over the reasons of the remarks he makes, and there is no allusion to any city  in Galilee , but to His going into Galilee in general.
	 [66] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [67] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	Some again suppose it to be a reason why He did not go into Galilee before, but remained in Judæa and Samaria (Theophyl., Meyer (1), and somewhat similarly Neander, L. J. 385, and Jacobi); this however would be equally alien from the simplicity of John’s style, and not in accordance with the fact of almost all His teaching and working being in Galilee. Nor is  γάρ to be rendered ‘  although ’ (Kuinoel) a sense (Lücke, 1. 613) which it never has. One admissible view is (Tholuck, Lücke (third edn.), De Wette), that this verse refers to the next following, and indeed to the whole narrative which it introduces. It stands as a preliminary explanation of the ‘Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe;’ and as indicating the contrast between the Samaritans, who believed on Him for His  word , and His own countrymen, who only received Him because they  had seen the miracles which He did at Jerusalem. Such use of  γάρ is not unexampled (see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. p. 467; Lücke, 467; Thol.; De Wette; and Matthiæ, Gr. Gr. § 615). In Herod. 1. 124 we have ὦ παῖ Καμβύσεω , σὲ γὰρ θεοὶ ἐπορέωσι · οὐ γὰρ ἄν κοτε ἐς τοσοῦτον τύχης ἀπίκεν · σὺ νῦν Ἀστυάγεα τὸν σεωυτοῦ φονέα τίσαι . Soph. Antig. 393: ἀλλ ʼ, ἡ γὰρ ἐκτὸς καὶ παρ ʼ ἐλπίδας χαρὰ | ἔοικεν ἄλλῃ μῆκος οὐδὲν ἡδονῇ , | ἥκω κ . τ . λ . And thus the οὖν in the next verse will be a particle connecting it with this preliminary reason given. But  ἐμαρτύρησεν is not to be taken as a pluperfect.
	A simpler view still is this: the reason ( Joh 4:1 ) why He left Judæa for Galilee was, because of the publicity which was gathering round Himself and his ministry. He betakes Himself to Galilee therefore, to avoid fame, testifying that His own country (Galilee) was that where, as a prophet, He was least likely to be honoured.