 5. ] Sychar is better known by the O.T. name of Sychem ( Συχέμ ), or τὰ Σίκιμα (Josephus, Euseb., &c.), or ἡ Σικίμα (LXX, 3 Kings Joh 12:25 ). It was a very old town on the range of Mt. Ephraim, in a narrow valley between Mt. Ebal and Mt. Gerizim. Judges 9:7 . The name Sychar has been variously derived: from שֶׁקֶר , a lie, or שִׁכֹּר ,  drunken ( Isa 28:1 ), by some (Reland, Lightfoot), who believe it to have originally been an opprobrious name given by the Jews, but by this time to have lost its signification, and become the usual appelation: by others from Συχέμ , by mere corruption of the terminating liquid μ into ρ , Olsh.
	Very near it was afterwards built Flavia Neapolis ( Συχέμ , νῦν ἔρημος , δείκνυται δὲ ὁ τόπος ἐν προαστείοις νέας πόλεως , Euseb. Onomasticon, in Winer, sub voce). There is a long and interesting history of Sychem and the Samaritan worship on Gerizim, and the Christian church in the neighbourhood, in Robinson’s Palestine, iii. 113 136. [See also Dr. Thomson, The Land and the Book, p. 472 ff. He thinks that Sychar and Shechem are not the same, because at Shechem (Nablus) there are delicious fountains of water, which the woman would hardly have left to draw from a deep well two miles off.]
	 τοῦ χωρ  .   ὃ ἔδωκ  … ] This is traditional: it finds however support from Genesis 33:19 , where we find Jacob buying a field near Shechem, and Joshua 24:32 , where, on the mention of Joseph’s bones being laid there, it is said that it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph.  This form of the tradition is supposed to have arisen from the translation by the LXX of Genesis 48:22 , ἐγὼ δὲ δίδωμί σοι Σίκιμα ἐξαίρετον ( שְׁכֶם אַהַד , ‘one share’) ὑπὲρ τοὺς ἀδελφούς σου : and of Joshua 24:32 , ἐν τῇ μερίδι τοῦ ἀγροῦ οὗ ἐκτήσατο Ἰακὼβ παρὰ τῶν Ἀμοῤῥαίων τῶν κατοικούντων ἐν Σικίμοις … καὶ ἔδωκεν αὐτὴν Ἰωσὴφ ἐν μερίδι , where they apparently read or mistook וַיִהְיוּ for וַיֵּהֲבֵהוּ (3 sing. fut. Kal. w. suffix of יָהַב , a verb which only occurs in the imperative mood, unless it be in the very doubtful place of Hos 4:18 ). Our Lord does not allude to it in the conversation, though the woman does.