 2 .] The former half of this verse substantiates the  καταλειπομένης of the last verse. The stress is not, ‘  we , as well as  they ,’ which would require ἡμεῖς to be expressed: but lies on  εὐηγγε λισμένοι , which includes both us and them.
	 For good tidings have been also announced (  καὶ γάρ is often used where the  γάρ in fact belongs to the chief word in the sentence, but is transposed back to the  καί , because it cannot well stand third: see Hartung, i. 138.
	This passive use of  εὐαγγελίζομαι is found in reff.)  to us, as likewise to them (they were not the  same good tidings in the two cases: but the Writer treats them as the same. To them indeed it was primarily the inheritance of the land of promise: but even then, as proved below, the  κατάπαυσίν μου had a further meaning, which meaning reaches even down to us):  nevertheless the word of their hearing (  τῆς ἀκοῆς , gen. of apposition; the word and the ἀκοή being commensurate: ‘  the word of (consisting in)  that which they heard .’ See note on ref. 1 Thess., where however ἀκοή is connected with παρ ʼ ἡμῶν . Delitzsch says here: “The classical use of ἀκοή (e. g. ἀκοὴν ἔχω λέγειν τῶν προτέρων , i. e. a tradition from the ancients, Plato, Phædr. p. 274 C) does not by itself explain the apostolic; but we must refer to the Heb. שְׁמוּעָה , that which is received by hearing, the tidings (with the gen. of the thing declared 2 Samuel 4:4 , or of the declarer ref. Isa.). That is so called, which the Prophet hears from Jehovah and announces to the people, Isaiah 28:9 ; Jeremiah 49:0 (29, LXX) 14: and thus there could not be a more appropriate word for that which is heard immediately or mediately from the mouth of the ἀκούσαντες (ch. Heb 2:3 ), and thus for the N. T. preaching, so that the λόγος ἀκοῆς , considered as one idea (ref. 1 Thess.), betokens the N. T. word preached. The expression of this idea not being of itself a N. T. one, it may, without supposition of any reference to such passages as Exodus 19:5 ( ἐὰν ἀκοῇ ἀκούσητε τῆς φωνῆς μου ), be used of God’s word spoken to Israel in the time of Moses”)  did not profit them, unmingled as they were in faith with its hearers .
	The passage is almost a locus desperatus. The question of  reading may be solved by consulting the digest. The nominative, which  apparently makes the sense so easy, “  the word, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it ,” rests on no manuscript authority, except that of the Codex Sinaiticus, but mainly on the Peschito and ancient Latin versions. It is notwithstanding retained by Mill, and Tischendorf Exodus 7:0 [and 8], and defended, purely on subjective grounds, by Bleek, De Wette, Lünemann, Ebrard, and Delitzsch. I own that the temptation is strong to follow their example: but the evidence on the other side is very strong, and internal grounds seem to me as decisive in its favour as external. No doubt the difficulty is great: but not, I think, so great in reality, as on the other more tempting and apparently easy construction. I will first discuss this latter, and thus approach the question of the real meaning. The above rendering, “  the word, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it ,” is that of the great majority of modern expositors: who take τοῖς ἀκούσασιν as a dative either, α . commodi, “  for ,” or “  with ” (“  chez ”) the hearers; β . as = ὑπὸ τῶν ἀκουσάντων , the dative of the subject after a passive; or, γ . as = “  with ,” i. e. so that the hearers are they  with whom the word was not mingled in, or by, faith. This latter appears to be the sense of the Syr.: “  quoniam non commixtus erat per fidem cum iis qui eum audierant :” (Etheridge’s rendering however is “because not contempered with faith in them that heard it:”) and the general understanding of this has been, that as food profits not, unless assimilated and mingled with the body of the eater, so the word did not profit, there being no assimilation of it by faith with (or, according to ( α ) and ( β ), it not being mingled with faith in) the hearers. Ebrard, alone of all Commentators, strikes out confidently and with some assumption a different path, and, taking this reading, understands that not the non-receptivity of the hearers, but the incapacity of the O. T. word itself to carry faith with it, is meant. I need hardly remind the reader that such a sense is directly against the argument, which knows of but  one word, and against the plain assertion of Hebrews 4:12 , which Ebrard tries, without the least indication in the text itself, to interpret of the N. T. word only. It is indeed lamentable that an able expositor, such as Ebrard on the whole is, should suffer himself to be so often carried away by unworthy crotchets, and when so carried away, to speak so confidently of them. But let us now discuss this whole class of renderings. The first objection to it appears to me to be, that it connects  μὴ συγκεκραμένος with  λόγος . Bleek felt this, and tried to help the sense by the conjecture τοῖς ἀκούσμασιν , originally suggested, from Thdrt.’s explanation, by Nösselt. It would be surely unnatural that the  word itself , and not the hearers, should be alleged as in any way the ground of  their rejection . And if it be replied, that it is not the word itself, but the circumstance of its being not mixed with faith in them, I answer that such may have been the  fact , but considering what our Writer says of the word of God in Hebrews 4:12 , it seems to me very unlikely that  he should so have expressed it . Then again the  μή presents a difficulty on this interpretation. The usages of μή with participles are very difficult to limit accurately, amidst all the varieties of subjectivity introduced by personification and hypothesis: but I think we may safely say, that the occurrence of μὴ συγκεκραμένος applied to λόγος , and indicative of mere historical matter of fact, would not be so likely as that of μὴ συγκεκρασμέν  ους , where  persons are treated of. And yet more: it seems hardly probable from the form of the sentence, that  ἐκείνους and  τοῖς ἀκούσασιν should refer to the same persons, as they must do, in case of the nominative reading being adopted. Why not in this case αὐτοῖς , or ἐν αὐτοῖς , or simply τῇ πίστει ? I feel however another, and a still weightier objection, to the art.  τῇ , in that case. It  might doubtless be there, and capable of a good meaning: but when we examine the habit of our Writer, we find that he  never uses ἡ πίστις for ‘  faith ,’ abstract, but always for ‘  the faith ,’ concrete, of some person spoken of. And this usage is very marked: for in ch. Hebrews 11:1 , where he gives a definition of Faith in the abstract, it is ἔστιν δὲ πίστις ἐλπιζομένων ὑπόστασις , not ἡ δὲ πίστις ἐστὶν κ . τ . λ . The other places where he uses it with the art. are ch. Hebrews 11:39 , μαρτυρηθέντες διὰ τῆς πίστεως , “by their faith:” Hebrews 12:2 , εἰς τὸν τῆς πίστεως ἀρχηγόν , “of the faith:” and Hebrews 13:7 , ὧν μιμεῖσθε τὴν πίστιν , “whose faith” … So that I conceive we cannot understand here otherwise than, ‘in their faith,’ although the word ‘their’ may be too strong when expressed in English, as almost implying the existence of real faith in them, which did  not exist. And I own this consideration sets so strong a barrier against the rec. reading συγκεκραμέν  ος , that, it seems to me, no difficulty consequent on adopting the other reading can bear me over it. On these grounds then, as well as external evidence, I feel that the accusative plural should be inflexibly maintained. Then,  how are we to understand the sentence? The modern Commentators all declare that it cannot be understood at all. The Fathers, with the exceptions of Cyr.-alex. once, Thdrt. in one edition (both unreal ones, see Bleek, p. 505), and Lucifer of Cagliari, all read the accus.; and mostly explain the clause, that  they ( ἐκεῖνοι )  were not mingled in (in respect of)  faith with those who really listened and obeyed , viz. Joshua and Caleb. So Chrys.: but his homilies on this Epistle have been so imperfectly reported, that he seems not unfrequently very confused: here, e. g., making Caleb and Joshua those who were not mixed with the multitude; so that Thl., who himself takes the above view, naïvely says of Chrys., τοῦτο δὲ κατὰ τὴν μεγάλην αὐτοῦ κ . βαθεῖαν σοφίαν ὁ ἅγιος οὗτος εἰπών , ἐμοὶ γοῦν τῷ ἀναξίῳ οὐκ ἔδωκε νοῆσαι πῶς αὐτὸ εἶπεν . And so Œc. and Photius (in Bleek), Hammond, Cramer, Matthæi, &c. But the objection to this reference will already have been seen by the student. The exceptions to the general unbelief are not brought out by our Writer, anxious to include all under it for the greater warning to his readers. Theodoret, though quoting ἀκούσασιν , seems to have read ἀκούσμασιν or ἀκουσθεῖσιν , for he interprets μὴ πιστῶς δεξαμένους , κ . τῇ τοῦ θεοῦ δυνάμει τεθαῤῥηκότας , κ . οἷον τοῖς θεοῦ λόγοις (one ms. reads θεολόγοις ) ἀνακραθέντας . And Theodore of Mopsuestia says, οὐ γὰρ ἦσαν κατὰ τὴν πίστιν τοῖς ἐπαγγελθεῖσι συνημμένοι · ὅθεν οὕτως ἀναγνωστέον · μὴ συγκεκραμένους τῇ πίστει τοῖς ἀκουσθεῖσιν , ἵνα εἴπῃ ταῖς πρὸς αὐτοὺς γεγεννημέναις ἐπαγγελίαις τοῦ θεοῦ διὰ Μωυσέως . We have also a testimony from Irenæus of a character hardly to be doubted, pointing to the same reading. It occurs iii. 19.1, p. 212, “Qui nude tantum hominem Eum dicunt ex Joseph generatum, perseverantes  in servitute pristinæ inobedientiœ moriuntur, nondum commisti verbo Dei Patris.” If we could set aside the objection to ἀκουσθεῖσιν , that it has next to no external authority in its favour, it would be a not improbable reading, for we have this very participle in ch. Hebrews 2:1 ; and in Stobæus xlv. 8, we find these lines from Menander: δεῖ τὸν πολιτῶν προστατεῖν αἱρούμενον τὴν τοῦ λόγου μὲν δύναμιν οὐκ ἐπίφθονον , ἤθει δὲ χρηστῷ συγκεκραμένην ἔχειν . But at present, it cannot come into question as a reading at all. Besides which, there would be this objection to it, that ἀκούσαντες has already occurred in this passage, and as implying those who heard the word, ch. Hebrews 3:16 . Taking then τοῖς ἀκούσασιν , and rejecting the idea that it means Caleb and Joshua, or implies yielding assent and obedience, we have but this way open to us, which, though not without difficulty, is yet neither  sinnlos nor  contertwidrig .  ὁ λόγος τῆς ἀκοῆς having been mentioned in the general sense of ‘  the word heard ,’  οἱ ἀκούσαντες is also in the general sense of ‘  its hearers ,’ and the assumption is made, that the  word heard has naturally  recipients , of whom the normal characteristic is ‘faith.’ And so these men received no benefit from ‘the word of hearing,’ because they were not one in faith with its hearers; did not correspond, in their method of receiving it, with faithful hearers, whom it does profit. So that I would take τοῖς ἀκούσασιν not as historical, ‘those who heard it,’ as in John 5:25 , οἱ νεκροὶ ἀκούσονται .… κ . οἱ ἀκούσαντες ζήσονται . I fairly own that this interpretation  does not satisfy me : but it seems the only escape from violation either of the rules of criticism or of those of grammar: and therefore I am constrained to accept it until some better is suggested.