 1 .]  Let us fear therefore (Bleek remarks that the words  φοβεῖσθαι μή , commonly used, see Acts 27:29 ; 2Co 11:3 ; 2 Corinthians 12:20 ; Galatians 4:11 , of fear of something happening, here include also the desire to avoid that contingency. It might have been σπουδάσωμεν , as Hebrews 4:11 , or βλέπωμεν μήποτε , as ch. Hebrews 3:12 , or ἐπισκοπῶμεν , as Hebrews 12:15 . But the word seems purposely chosen to express the fear and trembling, Philippians 2:12 , with which every servant of God, however free from slavish terror and anxiety, ought to work out his salvation)  lest (on μήποτε as only indefinite, not expressing, ‘lest at any time,’ see above on ch. Heb 3:12 ),  a promise being still left us (notice the  present not καταλειφθείσης . On the force of this present, very much of the argument rests. Many Commentators, as Erasm., Luther, Calv., Est., Schlichting, Limborch, al., have mistaken this participle to mean “derelicta seu neglecta per infidelitatem ac diffidentiam pollicitatione divina” (Est.). The term καταλείπειν ἐπαγγελίαν might  perhaps bear this meaning, which however is not substantiated as to the verb by Acts 6:2 , nor as to the  object of the verb by Bar 4:1 . But it is decisive against this interpretation, 1. that the participle is  present , not past, which it certainly in that case must have been: 2. that ἀπολείπεται in Hebrews 4:6 ; Heb 4:9 takes up again this word: 3. that the article would be wanted before καταλειπ ., or it would stand τῆς ἐπαγ . τῆς κατ . The meaning given above, ‘to leave behind for others,’ so that καταλείπεσθαι = ‘superesse,’ is common enough. Bleek gives many examples: e. g. Xen. Cyr. iii. 1. 6, καλὸν … κ . αὐτὸν ἐλεύθερον εἶναι , κ . παισὶν ἐλευθερίαν καταλιπεῖν : and often in Polybius, καταλείπεται ἐλπίς : and οὐ μὴν κακῶν αἱρέσεως καταλειπομένης : see Raphel.
	Again, as to construction, some, as Cramer and Ernesti, make this genitive governed by the verb ὑστερηκέναι . But against this the want of the article is, if not decisive, a very strong presumption. Our Writer would certainly have expressed this τῆς ἐπ . τῆς κατ . It remains then to take it as a gen. absolute, representing the present matter of fact)  of entering (compare ἐξουσίαν περιάγειν , 1 Corinthians 9:5 ; ὁρμὴ ὑβρίσαι , Acts 14:5 ; and such expressions as ὥρα ἀπιέναι , κωλύματα μὴ αὐξηθῆναι . The more usual construction would be ἐπαγγελία τοῦ εἰσελθ . See Winer, in reff.)  into His rest (it is to be observed, that in the argument in this chapter, the Writer departs from the primary sense of the words κατάπαυσίν μου in the Psalm, and lays stress on  αὐτοῦ , making it  God’s rest, the rest into which God has entered: see below on Hebrews 4:10 . And this is very important as to the nature of the rest in question. So Estius: “Hic per requiem promissam non intelligit terram Chanaan de qua secundum literam Psalmus locutus est, sed patriam cœlestem, quam illa terrena quies mystice significavit.” Of course all references of the rest spoken of to the period after the destruction of Jerusalem, as Hammond (see Whitby’s note against him), or to the cessation of Levitical ordinances, as Michaelis (on Peirce: he does not however repeat it in his other works), are inadequate and out of the question),  any one of you (although the communicative form has been used before in φοβηθῶμεν , the second person is here returned to; and of purpose. A similar change is found in ch. Hebrews 10:24-25 ; and in Romans 14:13 . The reading ἡμῶν (mss. 5. 56 vulg.-sixt. Thdrt.) is too obvious an alteration to what might be expected, to come into the text except on overwhelming authority, which it has not)  appear (see below)  to have fallen short of it (i. e. be found, when the great trial of all shall take place, to have failed of, = to have no part in, the promise. So  δοκῇ is, as so many both of ancients and moderns have taken it, a mild term, conveying indeed a sterner intimation behind it. The Latin will bear the same idiom “ne quis videatur non assecutus esse” expressed without the softening word, “ne quis evadat non assecutus.” So, but not exactly, Thl.: ἱλαρώτερον δὲ καὶ ἀνεπαχθέστερον τὸν λόγον ποιῶν οὐκ εἶπε · μὴ ὑστερήσῃ , ἀλλά · μὴ δοκῇ ὑστερηκέναι . I say, not exactly; for I should rather say that δοκῇ ὑστερηκέναι is used, not for ὑστερήσῃ , which would rather require the present, δοκῇ ὑστερεῖν , but for ἐλεγχθῇ , or φανερωθῇ , ὑστερηκώς . We thus fully account for the perfect, which almost all the Commentators who take δοκῇ as pleonastic or as softening, have not attempted, or have failed to do. Another and wholly different interpretation of  δοκῇ (and indeed of  ὑστερηκέναι ) has been given by Schöttgen, Baumgarten, Schulz, Wahl, Bretschneider (both under ὑστερέω ), Paulus, and recently taken up and defended with much spirit, and, as is his wont, with no little confidence, by Ebrard: “  lest any of you think that he has come too late for it ” i. e. should suppose that, all the promises having been now fulfilled, he has been born too late to have any share in this one. As far as mere usage of individual words is concerned, this interpretation might stand: for  δοκεῖν has often, and in our Epistle, this meaning, e. g. ch. Hebrews 10:29 , πόσῳ δοκεῖτε κ . τ . λ . And  ὑστερεῖν has this meaning ὑστερήσαντες τῆς μάχης , Polyb.; ὑστεροῦν τῆς βοηθείας , Diod. Sic. p. 391 c; ὑστερεῖν τῆς πατρίδος , Xen. Ages. ii. 1. And this view also seems favoured by the perfect ὑστερηκέναι . As indeed against the general idea of the pleonastic δοκῇ , the perfect would be a strong argument for it. But it is very difficult to persuade oneself that it suits either the mode of expression, or the context. For if this were the object of the caution, why put so prominent a solemn φοβηθῶμεν ? would not the exhortation rather have been expressed in a reassuring form, μὴ οὖν τις ᾖ (or ἔστω ) φόβος , or μὴ οὖν φοβηθῶμεν , or μὴ δοκῶμεν , or the like? Again, what end would so solemn a caution serve, if merely to explain to the Hebrew converts the fact that the promise had yet a fulfilment waiting for them? This fact indeed the Writer does prove in the subsequent verses; but it is introduced with a  καὶ γάρ , and only subserves the purpose already enounced in this verse, that of awakening in them a fear lest their unbelief should be found in the end to have excluded them from the participation of that promise.
	The meaning here assigned to  ὑστερέω , that of  falling short of , is quite borne out: cf. Thucyd. iii. 31, ὁ δ ʼ οὐδὲ ταῦτα ἐνεδέχετο , ἀλλὰ τὸ πλεῖστον τῆς γνώμης εἶχεν , ἐπειδὴ τῆς Μιτυλήνης ὑστερήκει (since he had failed of Mitylene), ὅτι τάχιστα τῇ Πελοποννήσῳ πάλιν προσμιξαι : Jos. Antt. ii. 2. 1, οὐδενὸς ὅλως ὑστερεῖν . For the usage of  δοκέω , the Commentators quote Jos. Antt. ii. 6.9, οὐδ ʼ ὧν εἰς ἐμὲ δοκεῖτε ἁμαρτάνειν , ἔτι μνημονεύω : which is a fair instance, notwithstanding Ebrard’s  nur auf eine stelle des schmülstigen Josephus : and in Latin, Cic. de Off. iii. 2. 6, “ut tute tibi defuisse videare.” The usage in Galatians 2:9 , though not identical, is not very dissimilar, carrying the force of softening the verb to which it is attached).