 11 13 .]  Exhortation , so frequently interspersed in the midst of the argument: see on ch. Hebrews 3:1 .  Let us therefore (consequence from Hebrews 4:3-7 ; seeing that the promise is held out to us, as it was to them, and that they failed of it through disobedience)  earnestly strive (not, as vulg., “  festinemus :” see reff.)  to enter into that rest (viz. that mentioned in Hebrews 4:10 , into which Christ has entered before, cf. Hebrews 4:14 ; ch. Heb 6:20 ),  lest any one fall into (so vulg., Luth., Beza, Corn. a-Lap., Grot., Abresch, Lünemann, Delitzsch, al., and rightly, both from usage and from the position of the verb. Had  πέσῃ been absolute, ‘  fall ,’ = ἐκπέσῃ , as Chrys, Œc., Thl., Calv., Schlichting, Wolf, Bengel, Bleek, De W., Thol., al., its position in the sentence certainly must have been more prominent. As it stands, it holds the most insignificant place, between the genitive in government and the word governing it. And usage abundantly justifies the idiom πίπτειν ἐν , for ‘to fall into.’ Cf. πεσεῖν ἐν ὕπνῳ , Pind. Isthm. iv. 39: ἐν ὀρφανίᾳ , Isthm. viii. 14: ἐν ἀφύκτοισι γυιοπέδαις πεσών , Pyth. ii. 75: τίνων ποτ ʼ ἀνδρῶν ἐν μέσοις ἀρκυστάτοις πέπτωχ ʼ ὁ τλήμων ; Soph. El. 1475: ἐν κλύδωνι καὶ φρενῶν ταράγματι πέπτωκα δεινῷ , Eurip. Herc. Fur. 1092. The construction is simply a pregnant one πίπτειν  εἰς , so as to be  ἐν )  the same example (  ὑπόδειγμα is found fault with by the Atticists: παράδειγμα λέγε , μὴ ὑπόδειγμα , Thom. Mag.: and similarly Phrynichus. But Bleek shews that it is in frequent use, from Xenophon downwards. Its proper meaning is,  something shewn in a light and merely suggestive manner : so in ch. Hebrews 8:5 , οἵτινες ὑποδείγματι καὶ σκιᾷ λατρεύουσιν τῶν ἐπουρανίων . But it is oftener used, as here, to signify a  pattern or  example , good or bad: cf. besides reff., Jos. B. J. Hebrews 6:1 , καλὸν ὑπόδειγμα βουλομένῳ σώζειν τὴν πατρίδα σοι πρόκειται βασιλεὺς Ἰουδαίων Ἰεχονίας : and other examples in Bleek)  of disobedience (not,  unbelief : see on ch. Hebrews 3:18 . It was οἱ ἀπειθήσαντες who failed to enter in).