 16 .]  Exhortation to confidence, even in our guilt and need, grounded on this sympathy of our great High Priest .  Let us therefore approach (  προσέρχεσθαι , only once used by St. Paul, 1 Timothy 6:3 , and that in a totally different sense, προσέρχεσθαι ὑγιαίνουσιν λόγοις , is a favourite word in this Epistle, cf. ch. Hebrews 7:25 ; Hebrews 10:1 ; Hebrews 10:22 ; Hebrews 11:6 ; Hebrews 12:18 ; Hebrews 12:22 , and generally in the same sense as here, that of approach to God, either, as under the O. T., by sacrifices, or, as under the N. T., by the one sacrifice of Christ. The same idea is expressed Ephesians 2:18 ; Ephesians 3:12 , by the word προσαγωγή : see also reff.)  with confidence (ref. and note there)  to the throne of grace (i. e. not, as Seb. Schmidt, al., Christ Himself, nor, as Chrys., Œc., Thl., Thdrt., Primasius, Limborch, al., the throne of Christ, nor is there any allusion to the lid of the ark of the covenant as the mercy-seat, which both would here be alien from the immediate context, and would introduce a confusion of metaphors in a purely spiritual passage: but, by the analogy of this Epistle, it is the  throne of God , at the right hand of which ( ἐν δεξιᾷ τοῦ θρόνου τῆς μεγαλωσύνης , ch. Hebrews 8:1 ; ἐν δεξ . τ . θρόνου τοῦ θεοῦ , Heb 12:2 ) Jesus our Forerunner is seated. That it is here called the throne of  grace , is owing to the complexion of the passage, in which the grace and mercy of our reconciled God are described as ensured to us by the sympathy and power of our great High Priest),  that we may receive (  λαμβάνειν here clearly in its passive recipient sense, as ch. Heb 2:2 al.)  compassion (corresponding to that συμπάθεια of our High Priest above spoken of: but extending further than our ἀσθένειαι , to the forgiveness of our sins by God’s mercy in Christ),  and may find grace (we have εὑρίσκειν ἔλεος , in ref. 2 Tim. εὑρ . χάριν is common in the LXX. The meaning is not very different from λαβεῖν ἔλεος . Many distinctions have been set up, but none appear to hold. Both, the receiving ἔλεος and finding χάριν , apply to the next clause)  for help in time (i. e. σήμερον , while it is yet open to us: as Chrys., ἂν νῦν προσέλθῃς , φησί , λήψῃ καὶ χάριν καὶ ἔλεον · εὐκαίρως γὰρ προσέρχῃ · ἂν δέ ποτε προσέλθῃς , οὐκέτι · ἄκαιρος γὰρ ἡ πρόσοδος · οὐ γάρ ἐστι τότε . θρόνος χάριτος · θρόνος χάριτός ἐστιν ἕως κάθηται χαριζόμενος ὁ βασιλεύς , ὅταν δὲ ἡ συντέλεια γένηται , τότε ἐγείρεται εἰς κρίσιν , Thl., Calvin, referring to 2 Corinthians 6:2 (from Isa 49:8 ), καιρῷ δεκτῷ ἐπήκουσά σου .… ἰδοὺ νῦν καιρὸς εὐπρόσδεκτος , Estius, al., Bleek, De W., Lünem., Ebrard, Tholuck. This is decidedly the right interpretation, and not as many Commentators and the E. V., “  in time of need ,” “  as often as we want it ,” which would be both flat, and hardly justified by usage, cf. ref. Mark. Delitzsch objects to the above view as  weder dem Ausdruck noch der Situation recht entsprechend : but his own, that they were to apply for help which might come in good time, before the danger which surrounded them became so pressing that they must sink under it from inability to resist, surely comes nearly to the same. There is no reason why the two should not be united: εὔκαιρον , while the throne of grace is open, and you yourselves not overwhelmed by the danger).