 14 .]  Having therefore (  οὖν refers rather to the whole exhortation than to the ἔχον  τες : see Delitzsch)  a great High Priest (the fact of this being Christ’s office is as yet  assumed : see above ch. Hebrews 2:17 ; Hebrews 3:1 ; and Philo cited in note there: but now with more points of contact with what has been already said; e. g. Hebrews 4:10 , where the εἰσελθὼν εἰς τ . κατάπαυσιν αὐτοῦ has close connexion with the High Priest entering within the veil.  μέγαν , as in ch. Hebrews 13:20 , τὸν ποιμένα τῶν προβάτων τὸν μέγαν : answering very much to the use of ἀληθινός , in St. John, ἐγώ εἰμι ἡ ἄμπελος ἡ ἀληθινή , ἦν τὸ φῶς τὸ ἀληθινόν : one archetypal High Priest, one above all)  passed through (not “  into ,” as E. V., Calvin, al.: see below)  the heavens (as the earthly high priest passed through the veil into the holiest place, so the great High Priest  through the heavens to God’s throne (on this, and its bearing on the Lutheran doctrine of Christ’s ubiquity, see Bleek, Tholuck, and Delitzsch in loc.): cf. ch. Hebrews 9:11 ; with reference also to Hebrews 4:10 , the entering of Jesus into His rest. In this fact, His greatness is substantiated. On οὐραν  ούς , plur., see on ch. Hebrews 1:10 . “Per cœlos intelliguntur omnes cœli, qui inter nos et Deum sunt interjecti: nempe et tota aeris regio, quæ etiam cœlum in scriptura vocatur, et cœli in quibus sunt sol, luna, cæteræque stellæ ac mundi luminaria, quibus omnibus Christus sublimior est factus, infra Hebrews 7:26 ; Ephesians 4:10 . Post hos omnes est cœlum illud, in quo Deus habitat, immortalitatis domicilium, quod ingressus est pontifex noster, non supergressus.” Schlichting. Thl. gives another expansion of the reference of this clause which may also have been intended: οὐ τοιοῦτος οἷος Μωυσῆς · ἐκεῖνος μὲν γὰρ οὔτε αὐτὸς εἰσῆλθεν εἰς τὴν κατάπαυσιν , οὔτε τὸν λαὸν εἰσήγαγεν · οὗτος δὲ διεληλυθὼς τοὺς οὐρανοὺς συνεδριάζει τῷ πατρί , κ . δύναται ἡμῖν τὴν εἰς οὐρανοὺς εἴσοδον δοῦναι , καὶ τῆς ἐν ἐπαγγελίαις καταπαύσεως κληρονόμους ποιῆσαι ),  Jesus the Son of God (certainly not so named in this connexion without an allusion to the Ἰησοῦς above mentioned. We cannot conceive that even a careful ordinary writer would have used the  same name of two  different persons , so designating the second of them, without intention. At the same time, there is no reason for supposing that such an allusion exhausts the sense of the weighty addition. It brings out the majesty of our High Priest, and justifies at the same time the preceding clause, leading the mind to supply ‘to God, whose Son He is.’ Besides which, it adds infinite weight to the exhortation which follows),  let us hold fast (not as Tittmann, al., “lay hold of:” it is the opposite to παραπίπτειν , ch. Hebrews 6:6 ; παραρυῆναι , Hebrews 2:1 . On the genitive, see reff. In ch. Hebrews 6:18 , the aor. gives the sense ‘  lay hold of ’)  the confession (viz. of our Christian faith: not merely of Christ’s ascension, nor merely of Christ as our High Priest: cf. ch. Heb 3:1 and not, and ch. Hebrews 10:23 , which gives more the subjective side, here necessarily to be understood also. See also ch. Hebrews 3:6 .
	Corn. a-Lapide gives a beautiful paraphrase: “Agite Hebræi, persistite in fide Christi, ad requiem in cœlis properate: esto cœli longe a nobis absint, facile eos conscendemus et penetrabimus, duce Christo, qui eos penetravit, eosque nobis pervios fecit, dummodo confessionem, i. e. professionem, scilicet fidei et spei nostræ, constanter retineamus”).