 9 .]  Consequence from the proposition in Hebrews 4:6 .  Some must enter therein: some, that is, analogous to, inheriting the condition of and promises made to, those first, who did not enter in because of disobedience. These are now specified as ‘  the people of God ,’ cf. reff., doubtless with a reference to the true spiritual character of Israelites indeed, represented under their external name: and their rest is no longer a κατάπαυσις , but (see below) is called by a higher and nobler name.  Therefore (see above)  there remains (see on Hebrews 4:6 ; remains as yet unexhausted, unoccupied, unrealized)  a keeping of sabbath (as regards the word, it is only found, besides here, in Plut. de Superstitione, c. 3, ὦ βάρβαροι ἐξευρόντες , Ἕλληνες κακὰ τῇ δεισιδαιμονίᾳ , πηλώσεις , καταβορβορώσεις ,  σαββατισμούς  , ῥίψεις ἐπὶ πρόσωπον , αισχρὰς προκαθέσεις , ἀλλοκότους προσκυνήσεις . It is regularly formed from σαββατίζω (reff.), as ἑορτασμός from ἑορτάζω . It is used here to correspond to the κατάπαυσίς  μου , specified and explained in Hebrews 4:4 . God’s rest was a σαββατισμός ; so also will ours be. Thdrt. remarks: σαββατισμὸν δὲ τὴν κατάπαυσιν κέκληκεν , ἐπειδὴ ἐν τῇ ἑβδύμῃ ἡμέρᾳ κατέπαυσεν ὁ θεὸς ἀπὸ πάντων τῶν ἔργων ὧν ἐποίησεν , ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι δὲ βίῳ ἄλυπος ἔσται ζωὴ κ . πόνων ἐλευθέρα καὶ φροντίδων ἀπηλλαγμένη . σαββατισμὸν τοίνυν ὠνόμασε τὴν τῶν σωματικῶν ἔργων ἀπαλλαγήν . τοῦτο γὰρ δηλοῖ τὰ ἑξῆς . The idea of the rest hereafter being the antitype of the Sabbath-rest, was familiar to the Jews: see the quotations in Schöttg., Wetst., and Bleek. They spoke of the tempus futurum as the “dies qui totus est sabbathum.” It is hardly probable that the sacred Writer had in his mind the object which Calvin mentions: “Non dubito quin ad Sabbathum data opera alluserit apostolus, ut Judæos revocaret ab externa ejus observatione: neque enim aliter potest ejus abrogatio intelligi, quam cognito spirituali fine.” Still more alien from the sense and context is it to use this verse, as some have absurdly done, as carrying weight one way or the other in the controversy respecting the obligation of a sabbath under the Christian dispensation. The only indication it furnishes is negative: viz. that no such term as σαββατισμός could then have been, in the minds of Christians, associated with the keeping of the Lord’s day: otherwise, being already present, it could not be said that it  ἀπολείπεται )  for the people of God (the well-known designation of Israel the covenant people. It occurs again, ch. Hebrews 11:25 . Here it is used of that veritable Israel, who inherit God’s promises by faith in Christ: cf. Galatians 6:16 . So Photius: καὶ αὕτη οὐ τοῖς τυχοῦσι , ἀλλὰ τῷ λαῷ τοῦ θεοῦ ἀφιερωμένη , λαὸς δὲ ἀληθῶς τοῦ θεοῦ οἱ πιστεύσαντες εἰς αὐτὸν κ . φυλάσσοντες τὰ προστάγματα αὐτοῦ ).
	Heb 4:10 is taken in two ways (not to mention the untenable interpretation of Schulz, which refers  ὁ γὰρ εἰσελθών to the people of God, “for, when it has entered,” &c. This would be εἰσελθὼν γὰρ without the article): 1. as a general axiom, justifying the use of the word σαββατισμός above:  For he that has entered into his (God’s)  rest, has himself also rested from his (own)  works, like as God rested from his own . This has been the usual explanation. Thl. says, ἑρμηνεύει πῶς σαββατισμὸν ὠνόμασε τὴν τοιαύτην κατάπαυσιν · διότι φησὶ καταπαύομεν καὶ ἡμεῖς ἀπὸ τῶν ἔργων τῶν ἡμετέρων , ὥσπερ καὶ ὁ θεός , καταπαύσας ἀπὸ τῶν ἔργων τῶν εἰς σύστασιν τοῦ κόσμου , σάββατον τὴν ἡμέραν ὠνόμασεν . This explanation labours under two difficulties: α . the aorist κατέπαυσεν , which thus is made into a perfect or a present. De Wette regards it as a reminiscence of the same word in Hebrews 4:4 ; so Delitzsch: but this is most unsatisfactory: β . the double reference of αὐτοῦ , first to God, and then to the man in question, especially when God’s works are taken up by the strong term τῶν ἰδίων . 2. The other interpretation has been that of Owen, Alting, Stark, and more recently Ebrard, who refer ὁ εἰσελθών to Christ:  For He that entered into his (own or God’s)  rest, Himself also rested from His works like as God rested from His own: and therefore, from our Forerunner having entered into this sabbatism, it is reserved for us, the people of God, to enter into it with and because of Him. Thus, as Ebrard says, Jesus is placed in the liveliest contrast to Joshua, who had not brought God’s people to their rest; and is designated as ‘That one, who entered into God’s rest.’ And to this view I own I am strongly inclined, notwithstanding the protest raised against it by Bleek, Lünemann, and Delitzsch. My reasons are, in addition to those implied above, α . the  form of the assertion, as regards Joshua here and Jesus in Hebrews 4:14 . That a contrast is intended between the Ἰησοῦς who did not give them rest, and the ἀρχιερέα μέγαν διεληλυθότα τοὺς οὐρανούς , Ἰησοῦν τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ , seems very plain. And if so, it would be easily accounted for, that Christ should be here introduced merely under the designation of ὁ εἰσελθὼν εἰς τ . κατάπ . αὐτοῦ . β . The introduction of the words  καὶ αὐτός , lifting out and dignifying the subject of this clause as compared with ὁ θεός , in a way which would hardly be done, had the assertion been merely of any man generally. γ . Scripture analogy. This rest, into which the Lord Jesus entered, is spoken of, Isaiah 11:10 , καὶ ἔσται ἡ ἀνάπαυσις αὐτοῦ , τιμή : and this work of His, in Isaiah 40:10 , καὶ τὸ ἔργον ἐναντίον αὐτοῦ , and by Christ Himself, John 9:4 , ἐμὲ δεῖ ἐργάζεσθαι τὰ ἔργα τοῦ πέμψαντός με ἕως ἡμέρα ἐστίν · ἔρχεται νύξ , ὅτε οὐδεὶς δύναται ἐργάζεσθαι . δ . The expression  ἐκείνην τὴν κατάπαυσιν below, which stands harshly insulated unless it refers to the κατάπαυσιν in this verse. ε . The whole context: see summary at ch. Hebrews 3:1 . Render then:  For He that entered into his (either, ‘God’s;’ or more probably merely ‘his,’ reflective, as in Isa 11:10 above: see also Matthew 25:21 ; Matthew 25:23 , where the χαρά is τοῦ κυρίου σου )  rest, He Himself also (on this, see above)  rested from his works (see above)  as God from his own (  τῶν ἰδίων not with any distinction of kind, but used only to mark distinction of possession).