 15 .]  For (how connected? certainly not as grounding the facts just stated; but as furnishing a motive for κρατεῖν τῆς ὁμολογίας . The effort is not hopeless, notwithstanding the majesty of our High Priest, and the power of the Word of our God:  for we are sympathized with and helped by Him. As Schlichting, “Occupat objectionem. Poterat enim aliquis dicere: quid me magnus iste Pontifex dura confessionis nostræ causa patientem juvabit, qui quanto major est, quanto a nobis remotior, tanto minore fortassis nostri cura tangetur?” To suppose, as some have done, that a contrast to the Jewish high priests is intended, is to contradict directly ch. Hebrews 5:2 . Rather is our great High Priest in this respect expressly identified with them)  we have not a high priest unable (thus better than “who is not able,” τὸν μὴ δυνάμενον )  to sympathize with (“The verb  συμπαθέω , immediately from συμπαθής , as by the same analogy ἀντιπαθέω , δυσπαθέω , εὐπαθέω , ἡδυπαθέω , μετριοπαθέω , ὁμοιοπαθέω , is like all these derivative forms, good Greek. Stephanus states it is to be found in Isocrates: ὥστε καὶ ταῖς μικραῖς ἀτυχίαις ἕκαστος ἡμῶν πολλοὺς εἶχε συμπαθήσοντας . Philo de Septenar. § 13, vol. ii. p. 290: τῷ δὲ ἀπόρως ἔχοντι συνεπάθησε καὶ μετέδωκεν ἐλέους κ . τ . λ . In St. Paul, we have συμπάσχειν (reff.) which our Epistle has not, but in a somewhat different meaning, that of actual community in suffering with another, whereas our word is spoken of one  sympathizing , taking part in heart with the sufferings of another. Erasmus (annot.): ‘Est affici moverique sensu alieni mali.’ συμπάσχειν might indeed be used in this sense, but hardly συμπαθεῖν in the other.” Bleek)  our infirmities (not  sufferings , as Chrys., Thdrt., al. For the idea would be here out of place, and the word cannot have this meaning. Bleek has well examined its region of significance; and shewn that it can only betoken primarily the inner and a priori weakness, be that  physical , and thereby leading to exposure to suffering and disease, which itself is sometimes called by this name (see John 11:4 ; Luke 5:15 ; Luk 8:2 al.: ch. Heb 11:34 ), or  spiritual and moral, whereby misery arises, and sin finds entrance, as in ch. Hebrews 5:2 ; Hebrews 7:8 . Both these, indeed  all human infirmities, are here included. With all does the Son of God sympathize, and for the reason now to be given),  nay rather (on  δέ being a stronger adversative than ἀλλά , see on Heb 4:13 above), (  one )  tempted (Ebrard has a good note on the subject of our Lord’s temptations)  in all things (see on ch. Heb 2:17 )  according to (our) similitude (  ἡμῶν is the natural word to supply. So in ch. Hebrews 7:15 , κατὰ τὴν ὁμοιότητα Μελχισεδέκ . It might be πρὸς ἡμᾶς : so Aristot. de Mundo (Bl.), κατὰ τὴν πρὸς ταῦτα ὁμοιότητα : Philo de Profugis, § 9, vol. i. p. 553, κατὰ τὴν πρὸς ἄλλα ὁμοιότητα , see ref. Gen. St. Paul uses ὁμοίωμα , not ὁμοιότης : cf. Romans 1:23 ; Romans 5:14 ; Romans 6:5 ; Romans 8:3 ; Php 2:7 )  apart from sin (so that throughout these temptations, in their origin, in their process, in their result, sin had nothing in Him: He was free and separate from it. This general reference is the only one which fully gives the general predication, χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας . And so it has been usually taken. But there are considerable divergences. Œc.: ὅτι οὐχ ἁμαρτιῶν ἐτίννυε δίκην ταῦτα , φησί , πάσχων . So Thl. altern.: Schlichting, “Ut ostendat, Christum innoxium prorsus fuisse, nec ullo modo hæc mala quæ passus est commeritum:” al. But this would require πεπειρασμένον to be confined in its meaning to such sufferings as might be inflicted on account of sin: and would altogether deprive it of the meaning ‘  tempted ,’ ‘solicited towards, but short of sin.’ Again, very many Commentators take the words to imply, that He was tempted in all other points, but not in sin: “  sin only excepted .” So Jac. Cappellus, Storr, Ernesti, Heinrichs, Kuinoel, Schleusner, Wahl, and Bretschneider, and al. But the words certainly do not lead to any such interpretation. They would rather in this case be, εἰ μὴ καθ ʼ ἁμαρτίαν , or χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας would stand before καθ ʼ ὁμοιότητα . The Commentators refer to passages of Philo in which he states the High Priesthood and the sinlessness of the λόγος in a manner very similar: e. g. De Profugis, § 20, p. 562: λέγομεν γάρ , τὸν ἀρχιερέα οὐκ ἄνθρωπον ἀλλὰ λόγον θεῖον εἶναι , πάντων οὐχ ἑκουσίων μόνον ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀκουσίων ἀδικημάτων ἀμέτοχον ).