 3 .]  For (taking up again τῇ πίστει in Hebrews 4:2 ; not the καταλειπομένης ἐπαγγελίας of Hebrews 4:1 , as rendering a new reason for it, as Bengel: nor the καὶ γάρ ἐσμεν &c. of Hebrews 4:2 , as De W. and Delitzsch. It may certainly be said, that the emphatic position of εἰσερχόμεθα includes  also Heb 4:1 in that to which γάρ applies: but then it must not be forgotten that οἱ πιστεύσαντες is equally, if not more emphatic, and thus Heb 4:2 is included, at the very least)  we do enter (are to enter, as ὁ ἐρχόμενος and the like. On the reading εἰσερχώμεθα , see on Romans 5:1 . Some Commentators have seen a communicative and conciliatory tone in the first person here. So Calvin: “In prima persona loquendo majori eos dulcedine allexit, ab alienis ipsos separans.” But Bleek and Lünem. well remark that it is not so; for οἱ πιστεύσαντες brings out a class distinct from the rest, as in ch. Hebrews 6:18 ; Heb 12:25 )  into the (aforesaid)  rest (not only, as E. V., “  into rest ,” abstract),  we who believed (the aor. is proleptical, the standing-point being the day of entering into the rest: so in reff. It was unbelief which excluded them: the promise still remains unfulfilled, see below: they who at the time of its fulfilment shall be found to have believed, shall enter into it),  even as He hath said (this citation evidently does not refer to the whole of what has just been said, but only to the fact, that the rest has not yet been entered into in the sense of the promise. The condition,  πιστεύσαντες , is not yet brought into treatment, but follows below in Heb 4:11 in hortatory form, having in fact been demonstrated already in ch. Hebrews 3:12-19 . Œc. and Thl. understand the πιστεύσαντες as also substantiated by our verse: so also Bengel: “An vero ex hoc testimonio efficitur, nos per fidem ingredi in Dei regnum? minime id quidem per se: sed ita est si omnia connectas, tum præcedentia tum sequentia: nam si infidelitas arcet ab aditu, fides certe introducit.” But this seems unnatural: see the connexion below),  As I sware in my wrath, If (see above on ch. Heb 3:11 )  they shall enter into my rest: although (the context is much disputed. I believe it will be best taken thus: the Writer is leading on to the inference, that the entering into  God’s rest is a thing YET FUTURE for God’s people. And this he thus brings about. ἡ κατάπαυσίς μου is not a thing future for God: He has already entered therein, καίτοι to αὐτοῦ end of Hebrews 4:4 . Still ( Heb 4:5 ) we have again, after God had thus entered in, the oath, They shall not, &c. Consequently, since ( Heb 4:6 ) it remains that  some must enter in, and they to whom it was first promised did not, on account of unbelief, for that they  did not (i. e. none of them did), is plain by His repeating in David, after the lapse of so many centuries, the same warning again ( Heb 4:7 ), which He would not have done if Joshua had led Israel into that rest ( Heb 4:8 ): since this is so, the sabbatism of God’s people is YET FUTURE ( Heb 4:9 ), and reserved for that time when they shall rest from their labours, as God from His ( Heb 4:10 ). Then follows a concluding exhortation, Hebrews 4:11-16 . Thus all is clear, and according to the progress of the argument. The other views have been, α . that of Lyra, Calvin, Beza, Seb. Schmidt, Wolf, Kuinoel, al., most of whom understand a second κατάπαυσιν before τῶν ἔργων , and render  καίτοι , “  idque ,” “  and that ” “in requiem meam, nempe illam ab operibus a fundatione mundi factis,” as Seb. Schmidt. But this involves two mistakes: καίτοι can never mean  nempe or  idque , and this meaning would require  τῶν ἀπὸ κατ . κ . &c., without which article it is of necessity a primary, not a secondary predicate. And indeed thus some of the above (Limborch, Cramer) take it, and construe, still however forcing καίτοι , “namely, into the rest which came in when the works were finished,” &c. β . That of Calvin (“tametsi operibus a creatione mundi perfectis. Ut definiat qualis sit nostra requies, revocat nos ad id, quod refert Moses, Deum statim a creatione mundi requievisse ab operibus suis, et tandem concludit hanc esse veram fidelium requiem, quæ omnibus sæculis durat, si Deo sint conformes”), Beza, Böhme, &c. And there is some portion of truth in this, but it does not rightly represent the context. For the  fact , that God’s rest is that into which we are to enter, is  not proved , nor  concluded , but taken for granted, and underlies the whole argument, the object of which is to shew that that  κατάπ  .   μου is, though not a future rest  for God , a future rest  for us to enter into, when we have finished our works, as He his. γ . That of Erasm. (par.), a-Lapide, Grot., Hamm., Calov., and many others, who hold that  two , or as Chrys., Œc., Thdrt., Thl., that  three different rests are spoken of (e. g. Thl., ὥσπερ τὸ σάββατον κατάπαυσις λέγεται παρὰ τῇ γραφῇ , καὶ οὐδὲν ἐκώλυσε κατάπαυσιν μετὰ ταῦτα λεχθῆναι καὶ τὴν εἰς τὴν γῆν τῆς ἐπαγγελίας εἴσοδον · οὕτως οὐδὲ νῦν κωλύει μετὰ ταύτην πάλιν κατάπαυσιν κληθῆναι τὴν μέλλουσαν , τὴν τῶν οὐρανῶν φημι βασιλείαν , εἰς ἢν οἱ ἀπιστήσαντες οὐκ εἰσελεύσονται ). But this is manifestly wrong: there is not a word nor a hint of a second or third rest: the  ordinance of the Sabbath is not so much as alluded to: ἡ κατάπαυσίς μου is, all through, the rest  into which God has entered ; and the object, to shew that into this, God’s people  have yet to enter . The fact that men did not, by the ordinance of the Sabbath, enter into it, lies, as an easily to be assumed thing, beneath the surface, but is not asserted nor even implied. δ . It would be hardly worth while to mention Ebrard’s view, were it not for his name and ability. It is strange in the last degree:  ἔργα are “  man’s works :” not exactly  good works , for we have none: not the  works of the law , for they came afterwards: but  all human works (  alles das, was ἔργα  gennant werden könne ), which had been going on since the creation, yet were not sufficient to bring us into God’s rest, but required a new way of salvation, viz. not one of works, but of faith, to effect this. So that τῶν ἔργων is a contrast to πιστεύσαντες : and in Hebrews 4:4 , τῶν ἔργων αὐτοῦ a contrast to τῶν ἔργων here, the one God’s, the other man’s, works. I need but state this to the reader, to shew him how utterly preposterous it is, and foreign from the context, in which not a word is indicated of the contrast between works and faith, but every thing of that between belief and unbelief)  the works (viz. of God: an expression borrowed from the citation which follows)  were constituted (i. e. finished. What Ebrard says against this meaning, that it is making the aorist participle = γεγενημένων , the perfect, is altogether without force. That the 1 aor. pass. of γίνομαι may almost always be tracked to its original  passive meaning, once maintained in note on 1 Thessalonians 1:5 , does not appear to be a safe assertion: see note there in 3rd and subsequent Edns. of Vol. III. In our Epistle, however, it may generally be done: e. g. ch. Hebrews 5:5 ; Hebrews 6:4 (Hebrews 10:33 ; Heb 11:34 ). This being so, τὰ ἔργα ἐγενήθη will simply mean, ‘the works were constituted,’ ‘were settled in their established order,’ ‘were made;’ and so by consequence ‘were finished.’ The word seems to be taken from the constant repetition of ἐγένετο in Genesis 1:0 ., and the passive used because the agent is here in question)  from the foundation (  καταβολή occurs in the N. T. only in this connexion, except ch. Hebrews 11:11 . See on ch. Heb 6:1 )  of the world (i. e., as explained above on καίτοι , and substantiated in next verse, though God Himself had not that rest  to enter into , and did not mean this by  ἡ κατ  .   μου , but had entered into the rest of which He speaks: the key verse to this being Heb 4:10 ).