 12, 13 .] Apart from the difficulties of some terms used, we may give the connexion thus: Such an endeavour is well worth all our σπουδή  for we have One to do with, who can discern and will punish every even the most secret disobedience.  For the word of God (in what sense? 1. The λόγος ὑποστατικός , Personal Word, has been understood by many, e. g. the Fathers in general (see the copious reff. in Bleek’s note here), Œc., Thl. (as commonly supposed, but see below, and judge), Thdrt. (by no means certain), Thom. Aquin., Lyra, Cajetan, Corn. a-Lap. (“Longe aptius et melius alii intelligunt Dei Filium”), Jac. Cappellus, Owen, Le Clerc, al. To this the first obvious objection is, that this mode of expression is confined to St. John among the N. T. writers. This, however, though clearly not to be met by alleging such passages as Luk 1:2 and Acts 20:32 , is not decisive. For our Epistle, though perhaps anterior to all the writings of St. John, is yet so intimately allied to the Alexandrine terminology, that it would be no matter of surprise to find its Writer using a term so nearly ripe for his purpose as we find ὁ λόγος in Philo (see below). The real objections to the Personal λόγος being simply and directly here meant, lie in the Epistle, and indeed in the passage itself.  In the Epistle : for we have no where in it this term used with any definiteness of our Lord, nor indeed any approach to it; not even where we might have expected it most, in the description of His relation to the Father, ch. 1 init. Every where He is the SON of God, not His Word. And in ch. Hebrews 6:5 ; Hebrews 11:3 , that expression is changed for ῥῆμα θεοῦ , when, especially in the latter place, had the idea of the personal λόγος been familiar to the Writer, he would almost certainly have said νοοῦμεν κατηρτίσθαι τοὺς αἰῶνας  λόγῳ θεοῦ , not  ῥήματι θ .  And in the passage itself : for such adjectives as ἐνεργής and κριτικός , and even ζῶν , as matter of emphatic predication, would hardly be used of the Personal λόγος : and, which to my mind is stronger evidence still, had these words applied to our Lord, we should not have had him introduced immediately after, Hebrews 4:14 , as Ἰησοῦν τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ . But, 2. some of the ancient, and the great mass of modern Commentators, have understood by the term,  the revealed word of God , in the law and in the gospel: or in the gospel alone, as contrasted with the former dispensation. And so even some of those who elsewhere in their writings have understood it of Christ: e. g. Origen (on Matthew 19:12 , tom. xv. 4, vol. iii. p. 656, εἰ τὸν λόγον τις ἀναλαβὼν τὸν ζῶντα κ . ἐνεργῆ κ . τ . λ ., … ἐκτέμνοι τὸ τῆς ψυχῆς παθητικόν : on Romans 12:7 , lib. ix. 3, vol. iv. p. 650: “Verbum Dei omnia, etiam quæ in occulto sunt, perscrutatur: maxime cum vivens sit, et efficax &c. … etenim cum moralis in ecclesia sermo tractatur, tunc uniuscujusque intra semetipsam conscientia stimulatur” &c.), Euseb., Aug [28] Civ. Dei xx. 21. 2 (vol. vii.) al. But neither does this interpretation seem to meet the requirements of the passage. The qualities here predicated of the λόγος do not appear to fit the mere written word: nor does the introduction of the written word suit the context. I should be rather disposed with Bleek to understand, 3.  the spoken word of God , the utterance of His power, by which, as in ch. Hebrews 11:3 , He made the worlds, by which His Son, as in ch. Hebrews 1:3 , upholds all things. This spoken word it was, which they of old were to hear and not harden their hearts: σήμερον , ἐὰν τῆς φωνῆς αὐτοῦ ἀκούσητε κ . τ . λ .: this spoken word, which interdicted them from entering into His rest ὤμοσα ἐν τῇ ὀργῇ μου Εἰ εἰσελεύσονται εἰς τὴν κατάπαυσίν μου . It seems then much more agreeable to the context, to understand this  utterance of God, so nearly connected with God Himself, the  breath of his mouth : and I would not at the same time shrink from the idea, that the Alexandrine form of expression respecting the λόγος , that semi-personification of it without absolutely giving it hypostatical existence, was before the mind of the Writer. Indeed, I do not see how it is possible to escape this inference, in the presence of such passages as this of Philo, Quis Rer. Div. Hær. § 26, vol. i. p. 491, ἵνα ἐννοῇς θεὸν τέμνοντα , τάς τε τῶν σωμάτων καὶ πραγμάτων ἑξῆς ἁπάσας ἡρμόσθαι καὶ ἡνῶσθαι δοκούσας φύσεις , τῷ τομεῖ τῶν συμπάντων αὐτοῦ λόγῳ , ὃς εἰς τὴν ὀξυτάτην ἀκονηθεὶς ἀκμήν , διαιρῶν οὐδέποτε λήγει τὰ αἰσθητὰ πάντα , ἐπειδὰν δὲ μέχρι τῶν ἀτόμων καὶ λεγομένων ἀμερῶν διεξέλθῃ κ . τ . λ .: and again, ib. § 27, p. 492, οὕτως ὁ θεὸς ἀκονησάμενος τὸν τομέα τῶν συμπάντων αὐτοῦ λόγον , διαιρεῖ τήν τε ἄμορφον καὶ ἄποιον τῶν ὅλων οὐσίαν . See, on the whole, Delitzsch’s note.
	 [28]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	The idea of Ebrard, that this word, meaning the gospel, is introduced to give weight to σπουδάσωμεν “Let  us do our part, for the gospel of God is not wanting in power on its part,” is too absurd to need refutation or even mention, were it not for his name)  is living (not,  in contrast with the dead works of the law (Ebr.), of which there is no question here; nor, as Carpzov,  nourishing , and able to preserve life: nor  enduring , as Abresch and Schlichting: but as E. V.,  quick , i. e. having living power, in the same sense in which God himself is so often called “the living God,” e. g. ch. Hebrews 10:31 . So in reff.: so Soph. Œd. Tyr. 482, speaking of the prophecies, τὰ δ ʼ ἀεὶ ζῶντα περιποτᾶται , where the Schol. has, ἰσχύοντα τῇ ἀληθείᾳ . Thl., who besides finds in ζῶν a proof of the hypostatic Personality, says well: ὥσπερ τότε , φησίν , οὐ πόλεμος , οὐ μάχαιρα αὐτοὺς ἀπώλεσεν , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ τοῦ θεοῦ λόγος , αὐτόματοι γὰρ κατέπιπτον , οὕτω καὶ ἐφ ʼ ἡμῖν ἔσται . ὁ γὰρ αὐτὸς λόγος καὶ ἐκείνους ἐκόλασε καὶ ἡμᾶς κολάσει · ζῇ γὰρ ἀεὶ καὶ οὐκ ἔσβεσται . The emphatic position of  ζῶν , the omission of ἐστι , the frequent repetition of  καί , all tend to increase the rhythm and rhetorical force of the sentence. Some have thought that the Writer was citing from some other source: but for this there does not appear any reason)  and active (= ἐνεργός , which is the commoner form (see Bleek), found in Xen., Demosth., and often in Polybius, in which latter however the mss. often give us ἐνεργής . In one place, xi. 23. 2, this latter seems undoubted, ἐνεργῆ ποιούμενοι τὴν ἔφοδον . It is a word of the κοινή or Macedonian dialect. This  activity is the very first quality and attribute of  life : so that the predicates form a climax:  not only living, but energizing: not only energizing, but τομώτερος κ . τ . λ .:  and not only that, but διϊκνούμενος κ . τ . λ .:  nor that only, but reaching even to the spirit , κριτικὸς ἐνθυμήσεων κ . ἐννοιῶν καρδίας ),  and sharper (  τομός , an adj. formed from τέμνω , is found in Plato, Tim. 61 E: Plut. Sympos. vi. 8; viii. 9: its comparative in ref., and Lucian, Toxar. ii. al.: the superlative, in the well-known exordium of Ajax’s dying speech, Soph. Aj. 815)  than (Bleek has shewn that the construction  τομώτερος ὑπὲρ μάχαιραν , for τόμος ὑπὲρ μ . or τομώτερος μαχαίρας , is not Hebraistic; for in Heb. there is no comparative; we have it in ref. Judges, ἀγαθώτερος σὺ ὑπὲρ Βαλὰκ υἱὸν Ζεπφώρ : and the similar construction with παρά in ch. Hebrews 1:4 , where see remarks)  every two-edged sword (lit. two-  mouthed : meaning, sharpened on both sides, both edge and back. The expression (reff.) is found in classic poetry, e. g. δίστομον ξίφος , Eurip. Hel. 992: δίστομα φάσγανα , id. Orest. 1296, and other instances in Bleek. The more usual word is ἀμφήκης , Il. κ . 256: Soph. Aj. 286: Electr. 485. We have ἀμφίθηκτος , Antig. 1309. As regards the comparison itself, of the word of God or of men to a sword, it is common in Scripture: see Psalms 57:4 ; Psalms 59:7 ; Psalms 64:3 ; Wis 18:15-16 ; Revelation 1:16 ; and above all, Ephesians 6:17 . It has been questioned, whether the office here ascribed to the word of God is  punitive , or merely  searching : whether it regards the foes, or the servants of God. There seems no reason why we should separate the two. The same WORD, to which evidently by the succeeding clause is attributed the searching power, is powerful also to punish. The μάχαιρα belongs to the surgeon, and to the judge: has its probing as well as its smiting office. And so Chrys.: αὐτὸς τὰ ἐν τῇ καρδίᾳ κρίνει · ἐκεῖ γὰρ διαβαίνει καὶ κολάζων καὶ ἐξετάζων . Bleek points out the close relation of this similitude to a series of passages in Philo, especially in the treatise Quis Rerum Divinarum Hæres. There, in speaking of Abraham’s sacrifice, and explaining διεῖλεν αὐτὰ μέσα , which act he refers to God, he says: τῷ τομεῖ τῶν συμπάντων αὐτοῦ λόγῳ · ὅς , εἰς τὴν ὀξυτάτην ἀκονηθεὶς ἀκμήν , διαιρῶν οὐδέποτε λήγει τὰ αἰσθητὰ πάντα , ἐπειδὰν δὲ μέχρι τῶν ἀτόμων καὶ λεγομένων ἀμερῶν διεξέλθῃ , πάλιν ἀπὸ τούτων τὰ λόγῳ θεωρητὰ εἰς ἀμυθήτους καὶ ἀπεριγράφους μοίρας ἄρχεται διαιρεῖν οὗτος ὁ τομεύς , § 26, vol. i. p. 491. And further on, he divides these διχοτομήματα made by the λόγος into triads, and says, ψυχὴ γὰρ τριμερής ἐστι , δίχα δὲ ἕκαστον τῶν μερῶν , ὡς ἐδείχθη , τέμνεται · μοιρῶν δὲ γινομένων ἕξ , ἕβδομος εἰκότως τομεὺς ἦν ἁπάντων , ὁ ἱερὸς καὶ θεῖος λόγος . From these and similar passages (cf. esp. Quod Deterior Potiori Insid. § 29, p. 212: De Cherubim, § 9, p. 144 ff.), we may reasonably infer, that the writings of Philo were not unknown to the Writer of this Epistle. The same conclusion has been also drawn by Grotius and Bleek. See Prolegg. § i. 155),  and reaching through (so ἱκνεῖται λόγος διὰ στήθεων , Æsch. Sept. c. Theb. 515: διικνεῖσθαι δι ʼ ὤτων ποτὶ τὰν ψυχάν , Tim. Locr. p. 101 A: ἡ δόξα διῖκτο μέχρι βασιλέως , Plut. Deuteronomy 20:0 )  even to dividing of soul and spirit, both joints and marrow (there has been considerable diversity in the taking of these genitives. I have regarded them as follows:  ψυχῆς and  πνεύματος , not coupled by τε καί , but only by καί , denote two separate departments of man’s being, each subordinate to the process indicated by  μερισμοῦ . The λόγος pierces to the dividing, not of the ψυχή  from the πνεῦμα , but of the ψυχή itself and of the πνεῦμα itself: the former being the lower portion of man’s invisible part, which he has in common with the brutes, the ἄλογον τῆς ψυχῆς of Philo; the latter the higher portion, receptive of the Spirit of God, the λογικὸν τῆς ψυχῆς of the same;  both which are pierced and divided by the sword of the Spirit, the word of God. Then, passing on to  ἁρμῶν τε κ  .   μυελῶν , I do not regard these terms as co-ordinate with the former ψυχῆς κ . πνεύματος , but as subordinate to them, and as used in a spiritual sense, not a corporeal (as many Commentators and recently Delitzsch): implying that both the ἁρμοί and the μυελοί of the ψυχή and of the πνεῦμα are pierced and divided by the λόγος . This I conceive is necessitated both by the  τε , expressed in this second clause, and by the sense, which otherwise would degenerate into an anti-climax, if ἁρμῶν τε κ . μυελῶν were to be understood of the body. (The metaphorical sense of  μυελός is amply justified by such expressions as εἰσδεδυκυῖα ( ὀδύνη ) εἰς αὐτὸν τὸν μυελὸν τῆς ψυχῆς , Themist. Orat. 32, p. 357: χρῆν γὰρ μετρίας εἰς ἀλλήλους φιλίας θνητοὺς ἀνακίρνασθαι καὶ μὴ πρὸς ἀκρὸν μυελὸν ψυχῆς , Eur. Hippol. 255 ff. And  ἁρμός is not an anatomical, but a common term, which might be applied to any kind of compages, as ἁρμὸς θύρας , Dion. Hal. Hebrews 4:7 ; ἁρμοὶ λίθων , ref. Sir. &c.) This, which is in the main the sense given by Grot., Kuin., Bl., De W., Lünem. (nearly also of Hofmann, Schriftbeweis, i. p. 258 f., who somewhat harshly makes the genitives ψυχῆς κ . πνεύματος dependent on ἁρμῶν τε κ . μυελῶν ), being laid down, I proceed to examine the divergences from it. 1. That which regards the μερισμός as being a division of the  soul from the spirit, the joints from the marrow (on this latter see below). This is given as early as by Chrys. as an alternative: ἡ γὰρ ὅτι τὸ πνεῦμα διαιρεῖ ἀπὸ τῆς ψυχῆς , λέγει · ἢ ὅτι καὶ αὐτῶν τῶν ἀσωμάτων διικνεῖται . And Œc., understanding πνεῦμα of the Holy Spirit: ἡγοῦμαι οὖν νῦν τοῦτο εἰρῆσθαι , ὅτι χωρισμὸν ἐργάζεται τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος , κ . ἀφαιρεῖται αὐτὸ ἀπὸ τῆς ψυχῆς : and so, but giving the alternative, Thl. And so Erasm.-paraph. (“adeo ut dissecet animam a spiritu”), J. Cappellus, Wolf, Bengel, al. The objections to this are both psychological and contextual. It has been rightly urged (see especially Ebrard’s note here) that the soul and spirit cannot be said to be separated in any such sense as this: and on the other hand, the ἁρμοί and μυελοί could not be thus said to be separated, having never been in contact with one another. 2. Many Commentators, who hold the division of soul from spirit, are not prepared to apply the same interpretation to the ἁρμῶν τ . κ . μυελῶν ; although, reading the former τε , it becomes philologically necessary that the two clauses should be strictly parallel. Not reading the former τε , it becomes possible to make ἁρμῶν τε κ . μυελῶν dependent, not on μερισμοῦ but on ἄχρι , which has been done by Cyril of Alexandria, de Fest. Pasch. Hom. xxii. vol. x. p. 275 b, καθικνεῖται δὲ καὶ μέχρις ἁρμῶν τε καὶ μυελῶν , and De Adorat. xvi. vol. i. p. 561, μέχρις ἁρμῶν τε κ . μυελῶν τὸν τοῦ θεοῦ καθικνεῖσθαι λόγον , and Schlichting (see below), C. F. Schmid, Paulus, al. But certainly, had this been meant, the ἄχρις would have been repeated before ἁρμῶν . Otherwise it would be exceedingly harsh. 3. Many understand μερισμοῦ to mean, not the act of division, but the  place where the division occurs . So Böhme, “Ita ut per intervalla, si quæ sint, animæ animique, et compagum medullarumque penetret, seque insinuet:” Schlichting, “Ad loca usque abditissima ubi anima cum spiritu connectitur, itemque ubi sunt membrorum compages et medullæ.” And so, more recently, Ebrard. The objection to this is, partly the omission of what would in that case be the requisite article before μερισμοῦ , and partly as before, that thus ἁρμ . τ . κ . μυ . must be constructed with ἄχρι : see above. 4. One meaning is given by Œc. (after Cyril: ὁ ἐν ἁγίοις Κύριλλος ἐν προσφόρῳ χωρίῳ καὶ οὕτως ἐδέξατο … τὸ περὶ τοῦ θεοῦ κήρυγμα διαιρεῖ φησὶ καὶ μερίζει τὰ τῆς ψυχῆς μέρη , δεκτικὴν ποιῶν κ . χωρητικὴν τῶν ἀκουομένων ), and Thl. (but not approved by the latter, as Bl. who has been misled by the Latin: for he says τινὲς δὲ οὕτως ἐδέξαντο τὸν λόγον , ἐμοὶ δοκεῖν οὐκ ἀκολούθως τῷ ἀποστολικῷ σκοπῷ , and then proceeds as Œc., except that he puts τοῦ μυστηρίου for τῶν ἀκουομένων ). But clearly this cannot be the meaning, with γάρ after a caution),  and a judger (or, discerner: not as Kuinoel,  condemner . The word is good Greek, as a simple predicate: so Plato, Pol. 260 C, τὸ κριτικὸν μέρος : with a gen., it seems to be of later usage: Palm and Rost quote ὀφθαλμοὶ κριτικοὶ τοῦ κάλλους from Basil the Great: but the government of a gen. by verbals in - ικός is regular: we have παρασκευαστικὸς τῶν εἰς τὸν πόλεμον , κ . ποριστικὸς τῶν ἐπιτηδείων , Xen. Mem. iii. 1. 6: διδασκαλικὸς τῆς αὐτοῦ σοφίας , Plato, Euthyph. p. 3 C: see Kühner, § 530 h h; it is the genitivus materiæ)  of (  the )  thoughts ( ἐνθύμημα is the commoner word: but Thucyd. (i. 123), Eurip. (Frag. 20), Isæus, and Aristotle (Bl.) use - ησις in much the same sense; - ησις being properly the action of the thought itself, - ημα the thing conceived or thought of. But these two become frequently confused in later Greek)  and ideas (this seems the nearest term to  ἔννοια . Plato gives rather a mysterious definition of it συντονία διανοίας . But the usage, where the word wavers, as here, between the process in the mind itself and that which is the result of the process, points very much to our ‘  idea .’ Thus ἔννοιαν λαμβάνειν τινός , Demosth. p. 157 18: ἡ κοινὴ ἔννοιά τινος , Polyb. x. 27. 8. In ib. i. 4. 9, we have ἔννοια distinguished from ἐπιστήμη : ἔννοιαν μὲν γὰρ λαβεῖν ἀπὸ μέρους τῶν ὅλων δυνατόν · ἐπιστήμην δὲ καὶ γνώμην ἀτρεκῆ ἔχειν , ἀδύνατον . Certainly the “  intentiones ” of the vulg. (“  intents ,” E. V.), though apparently answering to the Platonic definition, does not give it here (though this seems the sense in 1Pe 4:1 ), nor does “  consilia ” of Erasmus: “  conceptus ” of Crell. is better. Bengel says, “  ἐνθύμησις ,  intentio , involvit affectum;  ἔννοια ,  cogitatio , quæ dicit simplicius, prius et interius quiddam.” But though strictly speaking this might be the meaning of ἐνθύμησις ( ἐν θυμῷ ), it does not carry so much in ordinary usage)  of the heart (the inner and thinking and feeling part of man in Scripture psychology;  die innere Mitte des menschlichen Wesenbestandes, in welcher das dreifache Leben des Menschen zusammenläuft , Delitzsch, biblische Psychologie, § 12 init., which see; and Beck, Umriss der biblischen Seelenlehre, p. 63 ff.):