 6 .]  Since then it yet remains (see reff.: this is the sense in all three places in our Epistle:  remains over , not having been previously exhausted. ἀπολείπεται , ἀπομένει , Hesych. The time indicated by the present here is that following on the threat above)  that some enter into it (viz. by the very expectation implied in the terms of the exclusion ‘  These shall not :’ therefore there are that shall: because, the εἰσελεύσεσθαι  τινάς being a portion of God’s purposes, the failure of these persons will not change nor set aside that purpose. This latter consideration however does not logically come into treatment, but is enthymematically understood; “since what God once purposed, He always purposes.”
	We must beware of Delitzsch’s inference, that the  τινάς implies that some  had on each occasion entered into it , meaning, “there are some left yet to enter.” For thus the reasoning, as such, would be quite invalidated; which is concerned in establishing, not that  some part of the entrance is yet future, but that the entrance itself, as such, is so. That  some have entered in, as matter of fact, is true enough; but even they not yet perfectly, ch. Hebrews 11:39 f.; and the  τινάς here is used, not in respect of others who  have entered in , but in respect of those who  did not , when the words were used on the former occasion),  and those who were formerly (as contrasted with David’s time, and with the present)  the subjects of its announcement (viz. the Israelites in the wilderness)  did not enter in on account of disobedience (not, “  unbelief :” see on ch. Hebrews 3:18 . The first clause ἐπεὶ οὖν ἀπολ . τινὰς εἰσελθ ., was a deduction from the terms of the divine denunciation, as to God’s general purpose; and now this second clause is a particular concrete instance in which that general purpose was not carried out. Since  some must , and  they did not , the implied promise is again found recurring many centuries after),  again (emphatic:  anew )  He limiteth (reff.: and Demosth. p. 952. 20, ὁ μὲν τοίνυν νόμος σαφῶς οὑτωσὶ τὸν χρόνον ὥρισεν  has fixed , specified, assigned, limited the time. See many more examples in Bleek)  a certain day (Valcknaer and Paulus make  τίνα interrogative, the former ending the question at ἡμέραν , the latter, at χρόνον . But this cannot well be, with the emphatic πάλιν prefixed),  saying “To-day” (He begins his citation here with the word  σήμερον ; but having interrupted it by  ἐν Δ  .   λέγων  ,   μετὰ τοσοῦτον χρόνον  ,   καθὼς προείρηται , takes it up again below. This is much the simplest way to take the sentence (so also Delitzsch): not, as Calv., Beza, Grot., Jac. Cappell., Bleek, De W., Bisping, to make the first σήμερον a terminus in apposition with τινὰ ἡμέραν , “a certain day, viz. ‘To-day,’ ” and then to go on from ἐν to προείρηται before coming to the citation: nor again to understand with Heinrichs, al. and E. V., the first σἡμερον as the whole of the first citation, and then to start with the second at καθὼς ( προ ) είρηται )  in David (‘in,’ as in reff.: as we say, ‘  in Isaiah ,’ meaning, ‘in the book of Isaiah.’ This is better and more natural than, with Luther, Grot., Lünem., Delitzsch, al., to understand ἐν instrumental (?), “  by David ;” or with Bengel, al., as  he understands ch. Hebrews 1:1 , ἐν προφήταις , ἐν υἱῷ , i. e. as  local , dwelling in, inspiring, though this is better than the other)  after (the lapse of)  so long a time (viz. the time between Joshua and David. The blunder of understanding the words, “  after such a time as we have before mentioned , viz.  forty years (?)” has been endorsed by Dr. Bloomfield from Whitby, although in his previous note he had given the right interpretation, and although he puts καθὼς εἴρηται in a parenthesis in his text),  as it has been said before (viz. ch. Hebrews 3:7 ; Hebrews 3:15 . According to the reading  προείρηται , there can hardly be a question that the reference of the words is backward, to what has been already cited, not forwards to the words which follow. This latter being imagined, the readings προείρηκεν and εἴρηται have arisen),  To-day, if ye hear His voice, harden not your hearts .