 26. ] “The more knowledge, the more prayer in the name of Jesus,” Lücke. “Cognitio parit orationem,” Bengel. The approaching the Father through Him shall be a characteristic of their higher state under the dispensation of the Spirit.
	 οὐ λέγω ὑμ  . ] This has been variously understood. Grotius’s rendering, “prætereo hoc quasi minus eo quod jam inferam,” comes I believe the nearest to the truth, though it does not express the whole meaning. The Lord is now describing the fulness of their state of communion with Himself and the Father by the Spirit. He is setting in the strongest light their reconciliation and access to the Father. He therefore says,  Ye shall ask the Father in My name: and I do not now  say to you, I do not now state it in this form,  that I will ask the Father for you as if there were no relation of love and mercy  between the Father and yourselves: (  27 )  for the Father  Himself ( αὐτός , i.e. αὐτοκέλευτος (Nonnus) ‘proprio motu’)  loveth you; why?  Because ye love and believe on Me.
	The whole mind of the Father towards mankind is  Love: both in Redemption itself (ch. Joh 3:16 ), and then in an especial manner by drawing those who come to Christ ( Joh 6:44 ), and again by this fuller manifestation of His love to those who believe on and love Christ. The aim of this saying is to shew them that His intercession (which is still going on under the dispensation of the Spirit, 1Jn 2:1 ) does not imply their  exclusion from access to the Father, but rather  ensures that access , by the especial love which the Father bears to them who believe in and love His Son: CHRIST being still the efficient cause of the Father’s love to them, and the channel of that Love.
	No stress must be laid (Lücke) on πεφιλήκατε here coming before πεπιστεύκατε , as to Faith coming after Love: probably πεφιλ . is placed first as corresponding to φιλεῖ just before: and it might be said with just as much reason that καὶ πεπιστεύκατε … contains the ground of the πεφιλ , as the converse.