 8 11. ] We have here, in a few deep and wonderful words,  the work of the Spirit on the world set forth. This work He shall begin  ἐλθών  , scil. πρὸς ὑμᾶς : not, however, merely ‘  by your means ,’ but personally: so that it is  not the work and witness of the Apostles which is spoken of, except in so far as they are servants of the Holy Spirit, but ( ἐκεῖνος )  His own immediate personal working.
	 ἐλέγξει ] It is difficult to give in one word the deep meaning: ‘  convince ’ approaches perhaps the nearest to it, but does not express the double sense of ἐλέγχειν , which is manifestly here intended of a  convincing unto salvation, and a  convicting unto condemnation: ‘  reprove ’ is far too weak, conveying merely the idea of an objective rebuke, whereas ἐλέγξει reaches into the heart, and works subjectively in both the above-mentioned ways. See the whole question amply discussed in Archdeacon Hare’s Mission of the Comforter, vol. ii. note K.
	Lücke’s comment is valuable: “The testimony of the Holy Ghost in behalf of Christ as opposed to the unbelieving world (ch. Joh 15:26 ) is essentially a  refutation , ἔλεγχος , a demonstration of its wrong and error.” All the apostolic preaching, as addressed to the world, takes necessarily this polemical form (1 Timothy 5:20 ; 2 Timothy 4:2 ; 2 Timothy 3:16 ; Titus 1:9 ; Titus 1:13 ; Tit 2:15 ). And the more difficult was the disciples’ conflict against the power of this world with only the Word for their weapon, the more comfort was it for them, that the power of God the Spirit working by this ἔλεγχος was their help. In Matthew 10:19-20 ; Luke 12:11-12 , the apologetic side of their conflict, which was in close connexion with the polemical, is brought into view. In ἐλέγχειν is always implied the refutation, the overcoming of an error, a wrong, by the truth and the right. And when, by means of the ἔλεγχος , the truth detects the error, and the right the wrong, so that a man becomes conscious of them, then arises the feeling of  guilt , which is ever painful. Thus every ἔλεγχος is a chastening, a punishment. And hence this office has been called the  Strafamt (punitive office) of the Spirit. The  effect of the ἔλεγχος of the Divine Spirit in the world may be  to harden: but its  aim is the  deliverance of the world. ὁ κόσμος , in John, includes those who are not yet delivered (from the power of Satan to God), who  may be yet delivered , not the condemned. If the ἔλεγχος of the world is a moral process, its result may just as well be conversion, as non-conversion.  Only thus did the ἔλεγχος of the Spirit answer the end of Christ’s coming; only thus could it be a cheering support to the Apostles. Certainly, the κρίσις with which the ἔλεγχος closes is  condemnation , not however of the  world , but of the  Prince of the world ” (ii. 649 f.).
	De Wette denies the  salutary side of this ἐλέγχειν but he is certainly wrong: see below.
	These three words,  ἁμαρτία  ,   δικαιοσύνη  ,   κρίσις  , comprehend the three great steps of advance in spiritual truth among men. Of itself the world does not know what  Sin is, what  Righteousness is, what  Judgment is. Nor can either of these be revealed to any man except by the Spirit of God working within him. Each man’s conscience has some glimmering of light on each of these;  some consciousness of guilt,  some sense of right,  some power of judgment of what is transitory and worthless: but all these are unreal and unpractical, till the ἔλεγχος of the Spirit has wrought in him (see Stier, ver. 306, edn. 2).