 11. ] As δικαιοσύνη was  the world’s righteousness , and the ἔλεγχος of it was the manifesting to them how worthless it (their δικαιοσύνη after its old conception) was of their own by nature, but how perfect and complete it (the same as now newly and more worthily apprehended) is in and by Christ, so now κρίσις is  the world’s judgment:  on the one side, their judgment or estimate, or discrimination of things, on the other side,  God’s judgment , to which it is opposed. This their judgment by nature they form in subjection to the prince of this world, the Devil, of whose power they are not conscious, and whose existence they even deny: but the Spirit of God ἐλέγξει , shall convict this judgment of wrong; shall shew them how erroneous and destructive it is, and what a bondage they have been under; shall detect to them the Prince of this world reigning in the children of disobedience, and give them  a better judgment , by which they shall “not be ignorant of his devices” ( 2Co 2:11 ). But this better judgment itself is that very truth of God manifested in the Lord Jesus, by which (ch. Joh 12:31 )  the Prince of this world is cast out; by which the follower of Christ is enabled to say, “Get thee behind me, Satan;” by which the unbelieving world, and its Prince, are finally condemned in  the judgment hereafter (see Hare, as above, note V).
	I have preferred giving pointedly what I believe to be the sense of this most important passage, to stringing together a multitude of opinions on it: seeing that of even the best Commentators no two bring out exactly the same shade of meaning, and thus classification is next to impossible. I sincerely recommend the student to read the notes in Archdeacon Hare’s work, where he will find the whole literature of the subject, with the exception of Stier’s second edition, and Luthardt’s commentary, which have been published since.
	It will be seen that in my view the subjective and objective bearing of the three words are  both to be kept in sight, and that the great convictive work of the Spirit is to bring man OUT OF HIMSELF INTO CHRIST, Who (in His objective manifestation) must be  made unto him (subjectively), (1)  ἀπολύτρωσις  , (2)  δικαιοσύνη  , (3)  σοφία (the fourth, ἁγιασμός , not being here treated of, as being another part of the Spirit’s work, and on those who are no longer the κόσμος , see ch. Joh 17:16-17 ); and to condemn those who remain in the world finally, in all these points, as having rejected Christ. And this convictive work of the Spirit is a  complex and  progressive work; including the ministry of the Apostles, and every step taken towards divine truth in the history of the Church, as well as the conversion of individuals, and condemnation of the unbelieving.