And it shall come to pass - It shall happen, or take place. This is a continuation of the quotation from the prophet Hosea Hosea 1:10, designed to confirm the doctrine which he was establishing. Both these quotations have the same design, and are introduced for the same end. In Hosea they did not refer to the calling of the Gentiles, but to the recalling the rejected Jews. God says, after the Jews had been rejected and scattered for their idolatry; after they had forfeited his favor, and been cast off as if they were not his people; he would recall them, and bestow on them again the appellation of sons. The apostle does not quote this as having original reference to the Gentiles, but for the following purposes:(1) If God formerly purposed to recall to himself a people whom he had rejected; if he bestowed favors on his own people after they had forfeited his favor, and ceased to be entitled to the name of “his people:” then the same thing was not to be regarded as absurd if he dealt in a similar manner with the Gentiles - also a part of his original great family, the family of man, but long since rejected and deemed strangers.(2) The dealings of God toward the Jews in the time of Hosea settled “a general principle of government.” His treatment of them in this manner was a part of his great plan of governing the world. On the same plan he now admitted the Gentiles to favor. And as this “general principle” was established; as the history of the Jews themselves was a precedent in the case, it ought not to be objected in the time of Paul that the “same principle” should be carried out to meet the case also of the Gentiles.In the place - The place where they may be scattered, or where they may dwell. Or rather, perhaps, in those nations which were not regarded as the people of God, there shall be a people to whom this shall apply.Where it was said unto them - Where the proper appellation of the people was, that they were not the people of God; where they were idolatrous, sinful, aliens, strangers; so that they had none of the marks of the children of God.Ye are not my people - People in covenant with God; under his protection, as their Sovereign, and keeping his laws.There shall they be called - That is, there they “shall be.” The verb to call in the Hebrew writings means often the same as “to be.” It denotes that this shall be the appellation which properly expresses their character. It is a figure perhaps almost unique to the Hebrews; and it gives additional interest to the case. Instead of saying coldly and abstractedly, “they are such,” it introduces also the idea that such is the “favorable judgment” of God in the case; see Matthew 5:9, “Peace-makers ...shall be called the children of God;” see the note on that place; also Romans 9:19; Matthew 21:13, “My house shall “be called” the house of prayer;” Mark 11:17; Luke 1:32, Luke 1:35, Luke 1:76; Isaiah 56:7.The children of ... - Greek, Sons; see the note at Matthew 1:1.Living God - Called living God in opposition to dead idols; see the Matthew 16:16 note; also Matthew 26:63 note; John 6:69 note; Acts 14:15 note; 1 Thessalonians 1:1-10 is a most honorable and distinguished appellation. No higher favor can be conferred on mortals than “to be” the sons of the living God; members of his family; entitled to his protection; and secure of his watch and care. This was an object of the highest desire with the saints of old; see Psalms 42:2; Psalms 84:2,” My soul thirsteth for God, the living God;” “My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God.”