 6. ] The connexion, see below.
	 τὸ ἅγιον ] Some have thought this a mistranslation of the Chaldee, קָדָשָׁא , an earring, or amulet; but the connexion is not at all improved by it. Pearls bear a resemblance to peas or acorns, the food of swine, but earrings none whatever to the food of dogs. The similitude is derived from τὸ ἅγιον , or τὰ ἅγια ,  the meat offered in sacrifice , of which no unclean person was to eat (Leviticus 22:6-7 ; Leviticus 22:10 ; Leviticus 22:14 (where τὸ ἅγ . is used), 15, 16). Similarly in the ancient Christian Liturgies and Fathers, τὰ ἅγια are the consecrated elements in the Holy Communion. The fourteenth canon of the Council of Laodicæa orders μὴ τὰ ἅγια … εἰς ἑτερας παροικίας διαπέμπεσθαι . Again, Cyril of Jerus.: μετὰ ταῦτα λέγει ὁ ἱερεύς Τὰ ἅγια τοῖς ἁγίοις . ἅγια , τὰ προκείμενα , ἐπιφοίτησιν δεξάμενα ἁγίου πνεύματος . (See Suicer on the word.) Thus interpreted, the saying would be one full of meaning to the Jews. As Abp. Trench observes (Serm. Mount, p. 136), “It is not that the dogs would not eat it, for it would be welcome to them; but that it would be a profanation to give it to them, thus to make it a σκύβαλον , Exodus 22:3 .” The other part of the similitude is of a different character, and belongs entirely to the swine, who having cast to them pearls, something like their natural food, whose value is inappreciable by them, in fury trample them with their feet, and turning against the donor, rend him with their tusks. The connexion with the foregoing and following verses is this: “  Judge not ,” &c. “  attempt not the correction of others, when you need it far more yourselves:” still,  be not such mere children, as not to distinguish the characters of those with whom you have to do. Give not that which is holy to dogs ,” &c. Then, as a humble hearer might be disposed to reply, ‘  If this last be a measure of the divine  dealings, what bounties can I expect at God’s hand? ’ (This, to which Stier objects, R. Jesu, i. 233, edn. 2, I must still hold to be the immediate connexion, as shewn by the  knowing how to give good gifts , and the instances adduced below.) ( Mat 7:7 ), ‘  Ask of God, and He will give to each of you: for this is His own will, that you shall obtain by asking ( Mat 7:8 ),  good things, good for each in his place and degree ( Mat 7:10-11 ),  not unwholesome or unfitting things . Therefore ( Mat 7:12 )  do ye the same to others, as ye wish to be done, and as God does, to you: viz. give that which is good for each, to each, not judging uncharitably on the one hand, nor casting pearls before swine on the other .’