 20. ]  ἰδού answers to the Hebrew הִנֵּה , and is frequently used by Matt. and Luke to introduce a new event or change of scene: not so often by Mark, and never with this view in John.
	 ἄγγελος κ  . ] The announcement was made to Mary openly, but to Joseph in a dream; for in Mary’s case faith and concurrence of will were necessary, the communication was of a higher kind, and referred to a thing future; but here it is simply an advertisement for caution’s sake of an event which had already happened, and is altogether a communication of an inferior order: see Genesis 20:3 . But see on the other hand the remarks at the close of the notes on Matthew 1:21 .
	 κατ  ʼ   ὄναρ ] ὄναρ , simply, is the classical equivalent, κατ ʼ ὄναρ belonging to later writers, Strabo, Plutarch, &c. οὐ χρὴ κατ ʼ ὄναρ λέγειν , ὥσπερ οὐδὲ καθ ʼ ὕπαρ , ἀλλὰ ὄναρ καὶ ὕπαρ οἷον ; ὄναρ εἶδον τὸν δεῖνα , Thom. Mag. See Lobeck on Phrynichus, p. 423.
	 υἱὸς Δαυείδ ] These words would recall Joseph’s mind to the promised seed, the expectation of the families of the lineage of David, and at once stamp the message as the announcement of the birth of the Messiah. May it not likewise be said, that this appellation would come with more force, if Mary also were a  daughter of David?
	The nom. for the vocative is frequent in the Gospels: generally with an article. See Luke 8:54 ; ch. Matthew 11:26 , alli [9] ., and particularly John 20:28 .
	 [9] alii = some cursive mss.
	 τὴν γυν  .   σου ] Not ‘  as thy wife: ’ but in apposition with Μαριάμ ,  Mary thy wife: see Matthew 1:24 , which decides this, as Meyer, Exodus 3:0 , now acknowledges. The addition serves to remind Joseph of that relation which she already held by betrothal, and which he was now exhorted to recognize. See above on Matthew 1:19 .
	 τὸ γὰρ ἐν αὐ  .   γ  . ] ἐν is here not instrumental, ‘  that which is conceived by her ,’ but local,  that which is begotten in her. The gender here is not to be pressed as involving any doctrinal consequence, but to be regarded as the usual way of speaking of the unborn fœtus: we have υἱόν first after τέξεται , Matthew 1:21 . See also John 3:6 ; 1 John 5:4 .