 11.   Ἰωσείας  …   Ἰεχον  . ] Eliakim, son of Josiah and father of Jechonias, is omitted; which was objected to the Christians by Porphyry. The reading which inserts Joacim (i.e. Eliakim) rests on hardly any foundation, and would make fifteen generations in the second tesseradecade. The solution of the difficulty by supposing the name to apply to both Eliakim and his son, and to mean the former in Mat 1:11 and the latter in Matthew 1:12 , is unsupported by example, and contrary to the usage of the genealogy. When we notice that the ἀδελφοί of Jechonias are his  uncles , and find this way of speaking sanctioned by 2 Chronicles 36:10 , where Zedekiah, one of these, is called his brother, we are led to seek our solution in some recognized manner of speaking of these kings, by which Eliakim and his son were not accounted two distinct generations. If we compare 1Ch 3:16 with 2 Kings 24:17 , we can hardly fail to see that there is some confusion in the records of Josiah’s family. In the latter passage, where we have “his father’s brother,” the LXX render τὸν υἱὸν αὐτοῦ . Lord A. Hervey, in his careful work on the genealogies of our Lord, has suggested a reason for the difficulty: viz. that the text may originally have stood thus: Ἰωσείας δέ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωακεὶμ καὶ τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς αὐτοῦ , Ἰωακεὶμ δὲ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Ἰωαχεὶμ ἐπὶ τῆς μετοικεσίας Βαβυλῶνος , μετὰ δὲ τὴν μετ . Β . Ἰωαχεὶμ ἐγέννησεν τὸν Σαλαθιήλ , κ . τ . λ ., and a copyist may have omitted the Ἰωακ . δ . ἐγ . τὸν Ἰωαχ . as an accidental repetition. This view may perhaps be imagined to derive some support from the digest: but it seems to me that the objection to it is, the present occurrence of Ἰεχονίαν and - ας in all our copies. This Lord A. Hervey does not satisfactorily account for in saying “the form Ἰεχονίας was doubtless substituted in St. Matthew’s Gospel much later, to bring it into accordance with 1 Chronicles 3:1-24 .”
	 ἐπὶ τῆς μετ  . ]  at the time of the migration to Babylon (on this usage of ἐπί with a gen., derived from its meaning of  local juxta- , or  superimposition , see Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 246): and μετὰ τὴν μετ .,  after the migration. For the construction, μετ . Βαβ ., see reff.