 18.   τοῦ δὲ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ ] The combined name is emphatically put first as resuming the subject of Matthew 1:1 , and the  δέ takes up the δέ which has connected all the previous members of the series, introducing a reason for this inversion ἐξ ἧς ἐγεννήθη , with which this last one had been brought in, Matthew 1:16 .
	 γένεσις ] The ordinary reading γέννησις seems to have been taken up from Matthew 1:16 , and the γάρ , which follows, appended to account for the exception in this last case to the direct sequence of ἐγέννησεν throughout the genealogy.  γένεσις must be understood in a wide sense, as nearly identical in meaning with γέννησις ; as “= ‘  origo ,’ not merely ‘  birth ,’ ” Me [7] . It probably is chosen by the Holy Spirit to mark a slight distinction between the γέννησις of our Lord and that of ordinary men. See schol. in digest.
	 [7] Meyer.
	 μνηστευθείσης ] The interval between betrothal and the consummation of marriage was sometimes considerable, during which the betrothed remained in her father’s house, till the bridegroom came and fetched her. See Deuteronomy 20:7 .
	[  γάρ ] here is explicative; ‘  quum videlicet …’ So Soph. Trach. 475, πᾶν σοι φράσω τἀληθὲς οὐδὲ κρύψομαι . ἔστιν γὰρ οὕτως ὥσπερ οὗτος ἐννέπει . Lysias, Eratosth. § 19, εἰς τοσαύτην … αἰσχροκέρδειαν ἀφίκοντο , τῆς γὰρ πολεμάρχου γυναικὸς κ . τ . λ . See more examples in Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 469. We may perhaps with equal likelihood say that it is apologetic for the οὕτως : ‘thus it took place; and an account of it is needed,  for &c.’
	 πρὶν ἤ is said to belong to the middle age of Attic. With an aor. following, it betokens the entire completion of the act indicated. See it treated in Hermann on Viger, p. 442; Klotz on Devarius, p. 726.
	 συνελθεῖν ] Here to be understood of living together in one house as man and wife; the deductio in domum mariti: see especially Kypke, Observationes Sacræ, p. 1 ff., who remarks well, that it answers to the word παραλαβεῖν , Matthew 1:20 ; Matthew 1:24 . Chrys. Hom. iv. 2, vol. vii. p. 49, opposes this view: οὐκ εἶπε πρὶν ἢ ἀχθῆναι αὐτὴν εἰς τὴν οἰκίαν τοῦ νυμφίου , καὶ γὰρ ἔνδον ἦν . ἔθος γὰρ τοῖς παλαιοῖς ὡς τὰ πολλὰ ἐν οἰκίᾳ τὰς μεμνηστευμένας ἔχειν , κ . τ . λ . But it seems most agreeable to the context. His following remark is doubtless a just one: καὶ τίνος ἕνεκεν οὐ πρὸ τῆς μνηστείας ἐκύησεν ; ἵνα … συσκιασθῇ τὸ γινόμενον τέως , καὶ ἵνα πᾶσαν πονηρὰν διαφύγῃ ἡ παρθένος ὑπόνοιαν .
	 εὑρέθη ] not merely for ἦν , as some have said, but in its proper meaning:  she was discovered to be , no matter by whom: ἐπί τῶν παραδόξων , καὶ παρ ʼ ἐλπίδα πᾶσαν ἐκβαινόντων , καὶ οὐ προσδοκωμένεν λέγεσθαι εἴωθε , Chrys. the words ἐκ πν . ἁγ . are the addition of the Evangelist declaring the matter of fact, and do not belong to the discovery.
	 ἐκ πν  .   ἁγ  . ]  by (the agency of)  the Holy Ghost. See reff. and those to Matthew 1:20 : and compare by all means Chrys.’s remarks, Hom. iv. 3, p. 50 f. The interpretation of πν . ἁγ . in this place must thus be sought: (1) Unquestionably  τὸ πν  .   τὸ ἅγ  . is used in the N.T. as signifying  the Holy Ghost . Luke 3:22 ; Acts 1:16 ; Ephesians 4:30 . (2) But it is a well-known usage to omit the articles from such words under certain circumstances, e.g. when a preposition precedes, as εἰς λιμένα (Plato, Theæt. § 1), &c. We are therefore justified in interpreting ἐκ πν . ἁγ . according to this usage, and understanding τὸ πν . τὸ ἅγ . as the agent referred to. And (3) even independently of the above usage, when a word or an expression came to bear a technical conventional meaning, it was also common to use it without the art. as if it were a proper name: e.g. θεός , νόμος , υἱὸς θεοῦ , &c.