 21.   Ἰησοῦν ] The same name as Joshua, the former deliverer of Israel. It is written יְהוֹשֻׁעַ in the Law and Prophets, but יֵשׁוּעַ in the Hagiographa. Philo says, Ἰησοῦς ἑρμηνεύεται , σωτηρία κυρίου . De mut. nom. § 21, vol. i. p. 597.
	 αὐτός ] He, emphatically:  He alone: best rendered, perhaps, ‘  it is He that .’
	 τὸν λαὸν αὐτοῦ ] (not αὑτοῦ , any where, except when a special emphasis is intended: and there is none here, no distinction between  His people, and the people of  any other , being made). In the primary sense,  the Jews , of whom alone Joseph could have understood the words: but in the larger sense, all who believe on Him: an explanation which the tenor of prophecy (cf. Genesis 22:18 ; Deu 32:21 ), and the subsequent admission of the Gentiles, warrant. Cf. a similar use of ‘Israel’ by St. Peter, Acts 5:31 .
	 ἀπὸ τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν ] It is remarkable that in this early part of the evangelic history, in the midst of pedigrees, and the disturbances of thrones by the supposed temporal King of the Jews, we have so clear an indication of the  spiritual nature of the office of Christ . One circumstance of this kind outweighs a thousand cavils against the historical reality of the narration. If I mistake not, this announcement reaches further into the deliverance to be wrought by Jesus, than any thing mentioned by the Evangelist subsequently. It thus bears the internal impress of a message from God, treasured up and related in its original formal terms.
	Meyer understands the words of a political emancipation and prosperity of the Jewish people, and strangely enough refers to Luk 1:68 for confirmation of this idea; adding, however, that a religious and moral reformation was considered as intimately connected with such a change.
	 ἁμαρτία is not put for the  punishment of sin , but is the sin itself  the practice of sin, in its most pregnant sense. ‘How suggestive it is,’ remarks Bishop Ellicott, ‘that while to the loftier spirit of Mary the name of Jesus is revealed with all the prophetic associations of more than David’s glories to Joseph, perchance the aged Joseph, who might have long seen and realized his own spiritual needs, and the needs of those around him, it is specially said, Thou shalt call his name Jesus:  for He shall save his people  from their sins .’ Historical Lectures on the Life of our Lord, p. 56.