Verse 37. Let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay — That is, a positive affirmation, or negation, according to your knowledge of the matter concerning which you are called to testify. Do not equivocate; mean what you assert, and adhere to your assertion. Hear what a heathen says on this subject: - See the subject of swearing particularly considered in the note at the conclusion of Deuteronomy 6:0.Whatsoever is more than these — That is, more than a bare affirmation or negation, according to the requirements of Eternal Truth, cometh of evil; or, is of the wicked one - εκ του πονηρου εστιν, i.e. the devil, the father of superfluities and lies. One of Selden's MSS. and Gregory Nyssen, a commentator of the fourth century, have εκ του διαβολου εστιν, is of the devil.That the Jews were notoriously guilty of common swearing, for which our Lord particularly reprehends them, and warns his disciples against, and that they swore by heaven, by earth, by Jerusalem, by their head, c., the following extracts, made by Dr. Lightfoot from their own writings, amply testify: -"It was customary and usual among them to swear by the creatures. 'If any swear by heaven, by earth, by the sun, c., although the mind of the swearer be, under these words, to swear by HIM who created them, yet this is not an oath. Or, if any swear by some of the prophets, or by some of the books of the Scripture, although the sense of the swearer be to swear by HIM that sent that prophet, or that gave that book, nevertheless, this is not an oath. MAIMONIDES.'"If any adjure another by heaven or earth, he is not guilty. TALMUD."They swore by HEAVEN, השמים כן הוא hashsha mayim, ken hu, 'By heaven, so it is.' BAB. BERAC."They swore by the TEMPLE. 'When turtles and young pigeons were sometimes sold at Jerusalem for a penny of gold, Rabban Simeon ben Gamaliel said, המעו הוה By this habitation (that is, by this TEMPLE) I will not rest this night, unless they be sold for a penny of silver.' CHERITUTH, cap. i."R. Zechariah ben Ketsab said, המעו הוה 'By this TEMPLE, the hand of the woman departed not out of my hand.' -R. Jochanan said, היכלא 'By the TEMPLE, it is in our hand, &c.' KETUBOTH and BAB. KIDUSHIN."Bava ben Buta swore by the TEMPLE in the end of the tract Cherithuth, and Rabban Simeon ben Gamaliel in the beginning, וזה מנהג כישראל And so was the custom in Israel. - Note this, so was the custom. JUCAS. fol. 56."They swore by the city Jerusalem. R. Judah saith, 'He that saith, By JERUSALEM, saith nothing, unless with an intent purpose he shall vow towards Jerusalem.' Where also, after two lines coming between those forms of swearing and vowing, are added, ירושלם לירושלם בירושלם היכל להיכל בהיכל 'Jerusalem, For Jerusalem, By Jerusalem. - The Temple, For the temple, By the temple. - The Altar, For the altar, By the altar. - The Lamb, For the Lamb, By the Lamb. - The Chambers of the Temple, For the chambers of the temple, By the chambers of the temple. - The Word, For the Word, By the Word. - The Sacrifices on Fire, For the sacrifices on fire, By the sacrifices on fire. - The Dishes, For the dishes, By the dishes. - By all these things, that I will do this to you.' TOSAPHT. ad. NEDARIM."They swore by their own HEADS. 'One is bound to swear to his neighbour, and he saith, ריד לי כתיי ראשך Vow (or swear) to me by the life of thy head, &c. SANHEDR. cap. 3."One of the holiest of their precepts relative to swearing was this: 'Be not much in oaths, although one should swear concerning things that are true for in much swearing it is impossible not to profane.' Tract. DEMAI." - See Lightfoot's Works, vol. ii. p. 149.They did not pretend to forbid ALL common swearing, but only what they term MUCH. A Jew might swear, but he must not be too abundant in the practice. Against such permission, our Lord opposes his Swear NOT AT ALL! He who uses any oath, except what he is solemnly called by the magistrate to make, so far from being a Christian, he does not deserve the reputation, either of decency or common sense. In some of our old elementary books for children, we have this good maxim: "Never swear: for he that swears will lie and he that lies will steal; and, if so, what bad things will he not do!" READING MADE EASY.