Verse 44. Love your enemies — This is the most sublime piece of morality ever given to man. Has it appeared unreasonable and absurd to some? It has. And why? Because it is natural to man to avenge himself, and plague those who plague him; and he will ever find abundant excuse for his conduct, in the repeated evils he receives from others; for men are naturally hostile to each other. Jesus Christ design's to make men happy. Now he is necessarily miserable who hates another. Our Lord prohibits that only which, from its nature, is opposed to man's happiness. This is therefore one of the most reasonable precepts in the universe. But who can obey it? None but he who has the mind of Christ. But I have it not. Seek it from God; it is that kingdom of heaven which Christ came to establish upon earth. See on Matthew 3:2. This one precept is a sufficient proof of the holiness of the Gospel, and of the truth of the Christian religion. Every false religion flatters man, and accommodates itself to his pride and his passions. None but God could have imposed a yoke so contrary to self-love; and nothing but the supreme eternal love can enable men to practise a precept so insupportable to corrupt nature. Sentiments like this are found among Asiatic writers, and in select cases were strongly applied; but as a general command this was never given by them, or any other people. It is not an absolute command in any of the books which they consider to be Divinely inspired. Sir William Jones lays by far too much stress on the casual introduction of such sentiments as this in the Asiatic writers. See his WORKS, vol. i. p. 168, where the sentiment is connected with circumstances both extravagant and unnatural; and thus it is nullified by the pretended recommendation.Bless them that curse you — ευλογειτε, give them good words for their bad words. Genesis 2:3.Do good to them that hate you — Give your enemy every proof that you love him. We must not love in tongue, but in deed and in truth.Pray for them which despitefully use you — επηρεαζοντων from επι against, and αρης Mars, the heathen god of war. Those who are making continual war upon you, and constantly harassing and calumniating you. Pray for them - This is another exquisitely reasonable precept. I cannot change that wicked man's heart; and while it is unchanged he will continue to harass me: God alone can change it: then I must implore him to do that which will at once secure the poor man's salvation, and contribute so much to my own peace.And persecute you — διωκοντων, those who press hard on and pursue you with hatred and malice accompanied with repeated acts of enmity.In this verse our Lord shows us that a man may be our enemy in three different ways.First, in his heart, by hatred.Secondly, in his words by cursing or using direful imprecations (καταρωμενους) against us.Thirdly, in his actions, by continually harassing and abusing us.He shows us also how we are to behave to those.The hatred of the first we are to meet with love.The cursings or evil words of the second, we are to meet with good words and blessings.And the repeated injurious acts of the third, we are to meet with continual prayer to God for the man's salvation.