17. Reply of the spiritual
	Church and John to Christ's words (Revelation 22:7;
	Revelation 22:12; Revelation 22:16).
	the Spirit—in the
	churches and in the prophets. 
	the bride—not here
	called "wife," as that title applies to her only when the
	full number constituting the Church shall have been completed. The
	invitation, "Come," only holds good while the Church is
	still but an affianced Bride, and not the actually wedded
	wife. However, "Come" may rather be the prayer of
	the Spirit in the Church and in believers in reply to Christ's "I
	come quickly," crying, Even so, "Come" (Revelation 22:7;
	Revelation 22:12); Revelation 22:12- : confirms this view. The whole question of your salvation
	hinges on this, that you be able to hear with joy Christ's
	announcement, "I come," and to reply, "Come"
	[BENGEL]. Come to fully
	glorify Thy Bride. 
	let him that heareth—that
	is, let him that heareth the Spirit and Bride saying to the Lord
	Jesus, "Come," join the Bride as a true believer, become
	part of her, and so say with her to Jesus, "Come." On
	"heareth" means "obeyeth"; for until one has
	obeyed the Gospel call, he cannot pray to Jesus "Come";
	so "hear" is used, Revelation 1:3;
	John 10:16. Let him that hears and
	obeys Jesus' voice (Revelation 22:16;
	Revelation 1:3) join in praying "Come."
	Compare Revelation 6:1; Revelation 6:10;
	see on Revelation 6:1. In the other
	view, which makes "Come" an invitation to sinners, this
	clause urges those who themselves hear savingly the invitation to
	address the same to others, as did Andrew and Philip after they
	themselves had heard and obeyed Jesus' invitation, "Come." 
	let him that is athirst
	come—As the Bride, the Church, prays to Jesus, "Come,"
	so she urges all whosoever thirst for participation in the
	full manifestation of redemption-glory at His coming to us, to
	COME in the meantime and
	drink of the living waters, which are the earnest of "the water
	of life pure as crystal . . . out of the throne of God of the Lamb"
	(Revelation 22:1) in the regenerated
	heaven and earth. 
	And—so Syriac.
	But A, B, Vulgate, and Coptic omit "and." 
	whosoever will—that is,
	is willing and desirous. There is a descending climax; Let him that
	heareth effectually and savingly Christ's voice, pray
	individually, as the Bride, the Church, does collectively, "Come,
	Lord Jesus" (Revelation 22:20).
	Let him who, though not yet having actually heard unto
	salvation, and so not yet able to join in the prayer, "Lord
	Jesus, come, "still thirsts for it, come to
	Christ. Whosoever is even willing, though his desires do not
	yet amount to positive thirsting, let him take the water of
	life freely, that is, gratuitously.