2. The harmonious unity of
	Scripture is herein exhibited. The Fathers compared it to a ring, an
	unbroken circle, returning into itself. Between the events of Genesis
	and those at the close of the Apocalypse, at least six thousand or
	seven thousand years intervene; and between Moses the first writer
	and John the last about one thousand five hundred years. How striking
	it is that, as in the beginning we found Adam and Eve, his bride, in
	innocence m Paradise, then tempted by the serpent, and driven from
	the tree of life, and from the pleasant waters of Eden, yet not
	without a promise of a Redeemer who should crush the serpent; so at
	the close, the old serpent cast out for ever by the second Adam, the
	Lord from heaven, who appears with His Bride, the Church, in a better
	Paradise, and amidst better waters ( :-): the tree of life also is there with all its healing
	properties, not guarded with a flaming sword, but open to all who
	overcome (Revelation 2:7), and there is
	no more curse. 
	street of it—that is,
	of the city. 
	on either side of the
	river—ALFORD
	translates, "In the midst of the street of it (the city) and of
	the river, on one side and on the other" (for the second Greek,
	"enteuthen," A, B, and Syriac read, ekeithen:
	the sense is the same; compare Greek, Revelation 2:7- :); thus the trees were on each side in the middle of the
	space between the street and the river. But from Revelation 2:7- :, I prefer English Version. The antitype exceeds the
	type: in the first Paradise was only one tree of life; now
	there are "very many trees at the bank of the river,
	on the one side and on the other." To make good sense,
	supposing there to be but one tree, we should either, as MEDE,
	suppose that the Greek for street is a plain
	washed on both sides by the river (as the first Paradise was washed
	on one side by the Tigris, on the other by the Euphrates), and that
	in the midst of the plain, which itself is in the midst of the
	river's branches, stood the tree: in which case we may translate, "In
	the midst of the street (plain) itself, and of the river
	(having two branches flowing) on this and on that side, was there the
	tree of life." Or else with DURHAM
	suppose, the tree was in the midst of the river, and extending
	its branches to both banks. But compare Revelation 2:7- :, the millennial type of the final Paradise; which shows
	that there are several trees of the one kind, all termed "the
	tree of life." Death reigns now because of sin; even in the
	millennial earth sin, and therefore death, though much limited, shall
	not altogether cease. But in the final and heavenly city on earth,
	sin and death shall utterly cease. 
	yielded her fruit every
	month—Greek, "according to each month"; each
	month had its own proper fruit, just as different seasons are now
	marked by their own productions; only that then, unlike now, there
	shall be no season without its fruit, and there shall be an
	endless variety, answering to twelve, the number symbolical of
	the world-wide Church (compare Note, see on Revelation 2:7- :; Revelation 22:2). ARCHBISHOP
	WHATLEY thinks that the
	tree of life was among the trees of which Adam freely ate
	(Genesis 2:9; Genesis 2:16;
	Genesis 2:17), and that his
	continuance in immortality was dependent on his continuing to
	eat of this tree; having forfeited it, he became liable to death; but
	still the effects of having eaten of it for a time showed themselves
	in the longevity of the patriarchs. God could undoubtedly endue a
	tree with special medicinal powers. But Genesis 2:17- : seems to imply, man had not yet taken of the tree,
	and that if he had, he would have lived for ever, which in his then
	fallen state would have been the greatest curse. 
	leaves . . . for . . .
	healing— (Ezekiel 47:9;
	Ezekiel 47:12). The leaves
	shall be the health-giving preventive securing the redeemed
	against, not healing them of, sicknesses, while "the fruit shall
	be for meat." In the millennium described in Ezekiel 47:1-23;
	Revelation 20:1-15, the Church
	shall give the Gospel-tree to the nations outside Israel and the
	Church, and so shall heal their spiritual malady; but in the final
	and perfect new Jerusalem here described, the state of all is
	eternally fixed, and no saving process goes on any longer (compare Revelation 20:1-66.20.15- :). ALFORD utterly
	mistakes in speaking of "nations outside," and "dwelling
	on the renewed earth, organized under kings, and saved by the
	influences of the heavenly city" (!) Compare Revelation 21:2;
	Revelation 21:10-27; the "nations"
	mentioned (Revelation 21:24) are those
	which have long before, namely, in the millennium (Revelation 21:24- :), become the Lord's and His Christ's.