Verse 2 Peter 3:18. But grow in grace — Increase in the image and favour of God; every grace and Divine influence which ye have received is a seed, a heavenly seed, which, if it be watered with the dew of heaven from above, will endlessly increase and multiply itself. He who continues to believe, love, and obey, will grow in grace, and continually increase in the knowledge of Jesus Christ, as his sacrifice, sanctifier, counsellor, preserver, and final Saviour. The life of a Christian is a growth; he is at first born of God, and is a little child; becomes a young man, and a father in Christ. Every father was once an infant; and had he not grown, he would have never been a man. Those who content themselves with the grace they received when converted to God, are, at best, in a continual state of infancy: but we find, in the order of nature, that the infant that does not grow, and grow daily, too, is sickly and soon dies; so, in the order of grace, those who do not grow up into Jesus Christ are sickly, and will soon die, die to all sense and influence of heavenly things.There are many who boast of the grace of their conversion; persons who were never more than babes, and have long since lost even that grace, because they did not grow in it. Let him that readeth understand.To him. — The Lord Jesus, be glory - all honour and excellency attributed, both now - in this present state, and for ever, εις ημεραναιωνος, to the day of eternity - that in which death, and misery, and trial, and darkness, and change, and time itself, are to the righteous for ever at an end: it is eternity; and this eternity is one unalterable, interminable, unclouded, and unchangeable DAY!Amen. — So let it be! and so it shall be! Though this word is wanting in some reputable MSS., get it should be retained, as it has here more than usual authority in its support.Subscriptions to this epistle in the VERSIONS:The end of the Second Epistle of Peter the apostle. - SYRIAC.The Second Epistle of Peter the apostle is ended. - SYRIAC PHILOXENIAN.Nothing in the printed Vulgate.The end of the epistles of blessed Peter the apostle, the rock of the faith. - ARABIC.The Second Epistle of Peter is ended; and glory be to God for ever and ever! - AETHIOPIC.Nothing in the COPTIC.The end of the Second catholic Epistle of St. Peter. - COMPLUTENSIAN POLYGLOT.The end of the Second Epistle of St. Peter. - BIB. LAT., edit. antiq.Subscriptions in the MANUSCRIPTS;Of the second of Peter. - CODEX ALEXANDRIUS, and CODEX VATICANUS.Of the catholic epistle of Peter. - CODEX EPHREM.The Second Epistle of the holy Apostle Peter. - Other MSS.WE have now passed over all the canonical writings of Peter that are extant; and it is worthy of remark that, in no place of the two epistles already examined, nor in any of this apostle's sayings in any other parts of the sacred writings do we find any of the peculiar tenets of the Romish Church: not one word of his or the pope's supremacy; not one word of those who affect to be his successors; nothing of the infallibility claimed by those pretended successors; nothing of purgatory, penances, pilgrimages, auricular confession, power of the keys, indulgences, extreme unction, masses, and prayers for the dead; and not one word on the most essential doctrine of the Romish Church, transubstantiation. Now, as all these things have been considered by themselves most essential to the being of that Church; is it not strange that he, from whom they profess to derive all their power, authority, and influence, in spiritual and secular matters, should have said nothing of these most necessary things? Is it not a proof that they are all false and forged; that the holy apostle knew nothing of them; that they are no part of the doctrine of God; and, although they distinguish the Church of Rome, do not belong to the Church of Christ? It is no wonder that the rulers of this Church endeavour to keep the Scriptures from the common people; for, were they permitted to consult these, the imposture would be detected, and the solemn, destructive cheat at once exposed.