49. For every one shall be salted
	with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt—A
	difficult verse, on which much has been written—some of it to
	little purpose. "Every one" probably means "Every
	follower of mine"; and the "fire" with which he "must
	be salted" probably means "a fiery trial" to season
	him. (Compare Malachi 3:2, c.). The
	reference to salting the sacrifice is of course to that maxim of the
	Levitical law, that every acceptable sacrifice must be sprinkled with
	salt, to express symbolically its soundness, sweetness,
	wholesomeness, acceptability. But as it had to be roasted
	first, we have here the further idea of a salting with fire. In this
	case, "every sacrifice," in the next clause, will mean,
	"Every one who would be found an acceptable offering to God"
	and thus the whole verse may perhaps be paraphrased as follows:
	"Every disciple of Mine shall have a fiery trial to undergo, and
	everyone who would be found an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice
	acceptable and well-pleasing to God, must have such a salting,
	like the Levitical sacrifices." Another, but, as it seems to us,
	farfetched as well as harsh, interpretation—suggested first, we
	believe, by MICHAELIS, and
	adopted by ALEXANDER—takes
	the "every sacrifice which must be salted with fire" to
	mean those who are "cast into hell," and the preservative
	effect of this salting to refer to the preservation of the lost not
	only in but by means of the fire of hell. Their reason
	for this is that the other interpretation changes the meaning of the
	"fire," and the characters too, from the lost to the saved,
	in these verses. But as our Lord confessedly ends His discourse with
	the case of His own true disciples, the transition to them in Malachi 3:2- : is perfectly natural; whereas to apply the preservative salt
	of the sacrifice to the preserving quality of hell-fire, is equally
	contrary to the symbolical sense of salt and the Scripture
	representations of future torment. Our Lord has still in His eye the
	unseemly jarrings which had arisen among the Twelve, the peril to
	themselves of allowing any indulgence to such passions, and the
	severe self-sacrifice which salvation would cost them.