62. And Jesus said, I am—or,
	as in Matthew (Matthew 26:64),
	"Thou hast said [it]." In Luke, however (Matthew 26:64- :), the answer, "Ye say that I am," should be
	rendered—as DE WETTE,
	MEYER, ELLICOTT,
	and the best critics agree that the preposition requires—"Ye
	say [it], for I am [so]." Some words, however, were spoken by
	our Lord before giving His answer to this solemn question. These are
	recorded by Luke alone (Luke 22:67;
	Luke 22:68): "Art Thou the
	Christ [they asked]? tell us. And He said unto them, If I tell you,
	ye will not believe: and if I also ask [interrogate] "you, ye
	will not answer Me, nor let Me go." This seems to have been
	uttered before giving His direct answer, as a calm remonstrance and
	dignified protest against the prejudgment of His case and the
	unfairness of their mode of procedure. But now let us hear the rest
	of the answer, in which the conscious majesty of Jesus breaks forth
	from behind the dark cloud which overhung Him as He stood before the
	Council. (Also see on Luke 22:68- :.) 
	and—in that character. 
	ye shall see the Son of man
	sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of
	heaven—In Matthew (Matthew 26:64)
	a slightly different but interesting turn is given to it by one word:
	"Thou hast said [it]: nevertheless"—We prefer this sense
	of the word to "besides," which some recent critics decide
	for—"I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sit
	on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven."
	The word rendered "hereafter" means, not "at some
	future time" (as to-day "hereafter" commonly does),
	but what the English word originally signified, "after here,"
	"after now," or "from this time." Accordingly, in
	Luke 22:69, the words used mean
	"from now." So that though the reference we have given it
	to the day of His glorious Second Appearing is too obvious to admit
	of doubt, He would, by using the expression, "From this time,"
	convey the important thought which He had before expressed,
	immediately after the traitor left the supper table to do his dark
	work, "Now is the Son of man glorified" (Luke 22:69- :). At this moment, and by this speech, did He "witness
	the good confession" emphatically and properly, as the
	apostle says in 1 Timothy 6:13. Our
	translators render the words there, "Who before Pontius
	Pilate witnessed"; referring it to the admission of His being a
	King, in the presence of Cæsar's own chief representative.
	But it should be rendered, as LUTHER
	renders it, and as the best interpreters now understand it, "Who
	under Pontius Pilate witnessed," c. In this view of it,
	the apostle is referring not to what our Lord confessed before
	Pilate—which, though noble, was not of such primary importance—but
	to that sublime confession which, under Pilate's administration, He
	witnessed before the only competent tribunal on such occasions, the
	Supreme Ecclesiastical Council of God's chosen nation, that He was
	THE MESSIAH,
	and THE SON
	OF THE BLESSED ONE
	in the former word owning His Supreme Official, in the latter
	His Supreme Personal, Dignity.