54. And Peter followed him afar off,
	even into—or "from afar, even to the interior of." 
	the palace of the high
	priest—"An oriental house," says ROBINSON,
	"is usually built around a quadrangular interior court; into
	which there is a passage (sometimes arched) through the front part of
	the house, closed next the street by a heavy folding gate, with a
	smaller wicket for single persons, kept by a porter. The interior
	court, often paved or flagged, and open to the sky, is the hall,
	which our translators have rendered 'palace,' where the attendants
	made a fire; and the passage beneath the front of the house, from the
	street to this court, is the porch. The place where Jesus
	stood before the high priest may have been an open room, or place of
	audience on the ground floor, in the rear or on one side of the
	court; such rooms, open in front, being customary. It was close upon
	the court, for Jesus heard all that was going on around the fire, and
	turned and looked upon Peter ( :-)." 
	and he sat with the servants,
	and warmed himself at the fire—The graphic details, here
	omitted, are supplied in the other Gospels.  :-: 
	And the servants and
	officers stood there —that is, in the hall, within
	the quadrangle, open to the sky. 
	who had made a fire of
	coals —or charcoal (in a brazier probably). 
	for it was cold
—John alone of all the Evangelists mentions the material,
	and the coldness of the night, as WEBSTER
	and WILKINSON remark. The
	elevated situation of Jerusalem, observes THOLUCK,
	renders it so cold about Easter as to make a watch fire at night
	indispensable. 
	 And
	Peter stood with them and warmed himself —"He
	went in," says Matthew ( :-), "and sat with the servants to see the end."
	These two minute statements throw an interesting light on each other.
	His wishing to "see the end," or issue of these
	proceedings, was what led him into the palace, for he evidently
	feared the worst. But once in, the serpent coil is drawn closer; it
	is a cold night, and why should not he take advantage of the fire as
	well as others? Besides, in the talk of the crowd about the
	all-engrossing topic he may pick up something which he would like to
	hear. Poor Peter! But now, let us leave him warming himself at the
	fire, and listening to the hum of talk about this strange case by
	which the subordinate officials, passing to and fro and crowding
	around the fire in this open court, would while away the time; and,
	following what appears the order of the Evangelical Narrative, let us
	turn to Peter's Lord. 
	 Jesus
	Is Interrogated by Annas—His Dignified Reply—Is Treated with
	Indignity by One of the Officials—His Meek Rebuke
	(John 18:19-23). 
	 We
	have seen that it is only the Fourth Evangelist who tells us that our
	Lord was sent to Annas first, overnight, until the Sanhedrim could be
	got together at earliest dawn. We have now, in the same Gospel, the
	deeply instructive scene that passed during this non-official
	interview. 
	 John 18:19-43.18.23- :: 
	 The
	high priest —Annas. 
	 then
	asked Jesus of His disciples and of His doctrine —probably
	to entrap Him into some statements which might be used against Him at
	the trial. From our Lord's answer it would seem that "His
	disciples" were understood to be some secret party. 
	 John 18:19-43.18.23- :. 
	 Jesus
	answered him, I spake openly to the world
—compare John 18:19-43.18.23- :. He speaks of His public teaching as now a past thing—as
	now all over. 
	 I
	ever taught in the synagogue and in the temple, whither the Jews
always resort —courting publicity, though
	with sublime noiselessness. 
	 and
	in secret have I said nothing
—rather, "spake I nothing";
	that is, nothing different from what He taught in public: all His
	private communications with the Twelve being but explanations and
	developments of His public teaching. (Compare Isaiah 45:19;
	Isaiah 48:16). 
	 Isaiah 48:16- :: 
	 Why
	askest thou Me? ask them which heard Me what I have said to
them —rather, "what I said unto
	them." 
	 behold,
	they know what I said —From this mode of replying,
	it is evident that our Lord saw the attempt to draw Him into
	self-crimination, and resented it by falling back upon the right of
	every accused party to have some charge laid against Him by competent
	witnesses. 
	 Isaiah 48:16- :: 
	 And
	when He had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by
struck Jesus with the palm of his
	hand, saying, Answerest Thou the
high priest so?
—(see Isaiah 48:16- :). It would seem from Isaiah 48:16- : that this summary and undignified way of punishment what was
	deemed insolence in the accused had the sanction even of the high
	priests themselves. 
	 Isaiah 48:16- :: 
	 Jesus
	answered him, If I have spoken evil —rather, "If
	I spoke evil," in reply to the high priest. 
	 bear
	witness of the evil; but if well, why smitest thou Me?
—He does not say "if not
	evil," as if His reply had been merely unobjectionable; but "if
	well,"
	which seems to challenge something altogether fitting in the
	remonstrance. He had addressed to the high priest. From our Lord's
	procedure here, by the way, it is evident enough that His own precept
	in the Sermon on the Mount—that when smitten on the one cheek we
	are to turn to the smiter the other also (Isaiah 48:16- :) —is not to be taken to the letter. 
	 Annas
	Sends Jesus to Caiaphas (Isaiah 48:16- :). 
	 Isaiah 48:16- :. 
	Now
	Annas had sent Him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest
—On the meaning of this verse there
	is much diversity of opinion; and according as we understand it will
	be the conclusion we come to, whether there was but one
	hearing of our Lord before Annas and
	Caiaphas together, or whether, according to the view we have given
	above, there were two hearings—a
	preliminary and informal one before Annas, and a formal and official
	one before Caiaphas and the Sanhedrim. If our translators have given
	the right sense of the verse, there was but one hearing before
	Caiaphas; and then John 18:24
	is to be read as a parenthesis,
	merely supplementing what was said in John 18:24- :. This is the view of CALVIN,
	BEZA,
	GROTIUS,
	BENGEL,
	DE
	WETTE,
	MEYER,
	LUCKE,
	THOLUCK.
	But there are decided objections to this view. First: We cannot but
	think that the natural
	sense of the whole passage, embracing John 18:13;
	John 18:14; John 18:19-24,
	is that of a preliminary non-official hearing before "Annas
	first," the particulars of which are accordingly recorded; and
	then of a transference of our Lord from Annas to Caiaphas. Second: On
	the other view, it is not easy to see why the Evangelist should not
	have inserted John 18:24
	immediately after John 18:13;
	or rather, how he could well have done otherwise. As it stands, it is
	not only quite out of its proper place, but comes in most
	perplexingly. Whereas, if we take it as a simple statement of fact,
	that after Annas had finished his interview with Jesus, as recorded
	in John 18:19-23, he
	transferred Him to Caiaphas to be formally tried, all is clear and
	natural. Third: The pluperfect sense "had
	sent" is in the translation only; the sense of the original word
	being simply "sent." And though there are cases where the
	aorist here used has the sense of an English pluperfect, this sense
	is not to be put upon it unless it be obvious and indisputable. Here
	that is so far from being the case, that the pluperfect "had
	sent" is rather an unwarrantable interpretation
	than a simple translation
	of the word; informing the reader that, according
	to the view of our translators, our
	Lord "had been" sent to Caiaphas before
	the interview just recorded by the Evangelist; whereas, if we
	translate the verse literally—"Annas sent
	Him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest"—we get just the
	information we expect, that Annas, having merely "precognosced"
	the prisoner, hoping to draw something out of Him, "sent Him to
	Caiaphas" to be formally tried before the proper tribunal. This
	is the view of CHRYSOSTOM
	and AUGUSTINE
	among the Fathers; and of the moderns, of OLSHAUSEN,
	SCHLEIERMACHER,
	NEANDER,
	EBRARD,
	WIESELER,
	LANGE,
	LUTHARDT.
	This brings us back to the text of our second Gospel, and in it to 
	The Judicial Trial and
	Condemnation of the Lord Jesus by the Sanhedrim (John 18:19-43.18.23- :). 
	But let the reader observe, that
	though this is introduced by the Evangelist before any of the denials
	of Peter are recorded, we have given reasons for concluding that
	probably the first two denials took place while our Lord was
	with Annas, and the last only during the trial before the Sanhedrim.