72. And the second time the cock
	crew—The other three Evangelists, who mention but one crowing
	of the cock—and that not the first, but the second and last one of
	Mark—all say the cock crew "immediately," but Luke ( :-) says, "Immediately, while he yet spake, the cock
	crew." Alas!—But now comes the wonderful sequel. 
	The Redeemer's Look upon Peter,
	and Peter's Bitter Tears (Mark 14:72;
	Luke 22:61; Luke 22:62).
	 It has been
	observed that while the beloved disciple is the only one of the four
	Evangelists who does not record the repentance of Peter, he is the
	only one of the four who records the affecting and most beautiful
	scene of his complete restoration (Luke 22:62- :). 
	 Luke 22:62- :: 
	And
	the Lord turned and looked upon Peter
—How? it will be asked. We answer,
	From the chamber in which the trial was going on, in the direction of
	the court where Peter then stood—in the way already explained. See
	on Mark 14:1. Our Second
	Evangelist makes no mention of this look, but dwells on the warning
	of his Lord about the double crowing of the cock, which would
	announce his triple fall, as what rushed stingingly to his
	recollection and made him dissolve in tears. 
	 And Peter
	called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock
	crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon,
	he wept—To the same effect is the statement of the First
	Evangelist (Matthew 26:75), save
	that like "the beloved physician," he notices the
	"bitterness" of the weeping (Matthew 26:75- :). The most precious link, however, in the whole chain of
	circumstances in this scene is beyond doubt that "look" of
	deepest, tenderest import reported by Luke alone (Matthew 26:75- :). Who can tell what lightning flashes of wounded love and
	piercing reproach shot from that "look" through the eye of
	Peter into his heart! 
	 And
	Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said unto
him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny Me thrice.

 Matthew 26:75- :: 
	And
	Peter went out and wept bitterly
—How different from the sequel of
	Judas' act! Doubtless the hearts of the two men towards the Saviour
	were perfectly different from the first; and the treason of Judas was
	but the consummation of the wretched man's resistance of the blaze of
	light in the midst of which he had lived for three years, while
	Peter's denial was but a momentary obscuration of the heavenly light
	and love to his Master which ruled his life. But the immediate cause
	of the blessed revulsion which made Peter "weep bitterly"
	(Matthew 26:75) was, beyond all
	doubt, this heart-piercing "look" which his Lord gave him.
	And remembering the Saviour's own words at the table, "Simon,
	Simon, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat;
	but I prayed for thee, that thy faith
	fail not" (Luke 22:31;
	Luke 22:32), may we not say that
	this prayer fetched down all that there
	was in that look to pierce and break
	the heart of Peter, to keep it from despair, to work in it
	"repentance unto salvation not to be repented of," and at
	length, under other healing touches, to "restore his soul?"
	(See on Mark 14:1). 
	