58. We heard him say, I will destroy
	this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will
	build another made without hands—On this charge, observe,
	first, that eager as His enemies were to find criminal matter against
	our Lord, they had to go back to the outset of His ministry, His
	first visit to Jerusalem, more than three years before this. In all
	that He said and did after that, though ever increasing in boldness,
	they could find nothing. Next, that even then, they fix only on one
	speech, of two or three words, which they dared to adduce against
	Him. Further, they most manifestly pervert the speech of our Lord. We
	say not this because in Mark's form of it, it differs from the report
	of the words given by the Fourth Evangelist ( :-) —the only one of the Evangelists who reports it all,
	or mentions even any visit paid by our Lord to Jerusalem before His
	last—but because the one report bears truth, and the other
	falsehood, on its face. When our Lord said on that occasion, "Destroy
	this temple, and in three days I will raise it up," they might,
	for a moment, have understood Him to refer to the temple out of whose
	courts He had swept the buyers and sellers. But after they had
	expressed their astonishment at His words, in that sense of them, and
	reasoned upon the time it had taken to rear the temple as it then
	stood, since no answer to this appears to have been given by
	our Lord, it is hardly conceivable that they should continue in the
	persuasion that this was really His meaning. But finally, even if the
	more ignorant among them had done so, it is next to certain that the
	ecclesiastics, who were the prosecutors in this case, did
	not believe that this was His meaning. For in less than three
	days after this they went to Pilate, saying, "Sir, we remember
	that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, after three days
	I will rise again" ( :-). Now what utterance of Christ known to His enemies, could
	this refer to, if not to this very saying about destroying and
	rearing up the temple? And if so, it puts it beyond a doubt that by
	this time, at least, they were perfectly aware that our Lord's words
	referred to His death by their hands and His resurrection by His
	own. But this is confirmed by  :-.