Grace be with you, mercy and peace [εσται μεθ ημων χαρις ελεος ειρηνη] . The verb is in the future tense : shall be. In the Pauline Epistles the salutations contain no verb. In 1 and 2 Peter and Jude, plhqunqeih be multiplied, is used. Grace [χαρις] is of rare occurrence in John's writings (John 1:14, John 1:16, John 1:17; Revelation 1:4; Revelation 22:21); and the kindred carizomai to favor, be kind, forgive, and carisma gift, are not found at all. See on Luke 1:30. Mercy [ελεος] , only here in John. See on Luke 1:50. The pre - Christian definitions of the word include the element of grief experienced on account of the unworthy suffering of another. So Aristotle. The Latin misericordia (miser "wretched," cor "the heart ") carries the same idea. So Cicero defines it, the sorrow arising from the wretchedness of another suffering wrongfully. Strictly speaking, the word as applied to God, cannot include either of these elements, since grief cannot be ascribed to Him, and suffering is the legitimate result of sin. The sentiment in God assumes the character of pitying love. Mercy is kindness and goodwill toward the miserable and afflicted, joined with a desire to relieve them. Trench observes :" In the Divine mind, and in the order of our salvation as conceived therein, the mercy precedes the grace. God so loved the world with a pitying love (herein was the mercy), that He gave His only - begotten Son (herein the grace), that the world through Him might be saved. But in the order of the manifestation of God 's purposes of salvation, the grace must go before the mercy and make way for it. It is true that the same persons are the subjects of both, being at once the guilty and the miserable; yet the righteousness of God, which it is quite as necessary should be maintained as His love, demands that the guilt should be done away before the misery can be assuaged; only the forgiven may be blessed. He must pardon before He can heal.... From this it follows that in each of the apostolic salutations where these words occur, grace precedes mercy " (" Synonyms of the New Testament "). With you. The best texts read with us. From God - from Jesus Christ [παρα θεου - παρα ιησου χριστου] . Note the repeated preposition, bringing out the twofold relation to the Father and Son. In the Pauline salutations ajpo from, is invariably used with God, and never repeated with Jesus Christ. On the use of para from, see on John 6:46; 1 John 1:5. God the Father. The more common expression is "God our Father." The Son of the Father. The phrase occurs nowhere else. Compare John 1:18; 1 John 2:22, 1 John 2:23; 1 John 1:3. In truth and in love. The combination is not found elsewhere. The words indicate the contents of the whole Epistle.