Is partaker [κοινωνει] . The verb occurs nowhere else in John's writings. The kindred noun koinwnia fellowship, is peculiar to the First Epistle. See on 1 John 1:3; also on partners (Luke 5:10); fellowship (Acts 2:42); partaker (1 Peter 5:1.). Paper [χαρτου] . Only here in the New Testament. The Egyptian papyrus or byblus, Cyperus papyrus, anciently very common, but not now found within the limits of the country. It is a tall, smooth flag or reed, with a large triangular stalk, containing the pith which furnished the paper. The paper was manufactured by cutting the pith into strips, arranging them horizontally, and then placing across them another layer of strips, uniting the two layers by a paste, and subjecting the whole to a heavy pressure. The upper and middle portions of the reed were used for this purpose. The fact that the plant is no longer found is significant in connection with Isaiah's prophecy that "the flags (Hebrews suph, papyrus) shall waste away" (Isaiah 19:6). The plant grew in shallow water or in marshes, and is accordingly represented on the monuments as at the side of a stream or in irrigated lands. 71 The Jews wrote on various materials, such as the leaves of the olive and palm, the rind of the pomegranate, and the skins of animals. The tablet (pinakidion, Luke 1:63) was in very common use. It consisted of thin pieces of wood, strung together, and either plain, or covered with papyrus or with wax. Ink [μελανος] . Lit., that which is black. The word occurs only once outside of John's Epistles (2 Corinthians 3:3), and only three times in all (2 John 1:12; 3 John 1:13). Ink was prepared of soot or of vegetable or mineral substances. Gum and vitriol were also used. Colored inks, red and gold, were also employed. 72 To come unto you [γενεσθαι προς υμας] . Or, to be present with you. For the phrase, see 1 Corinthians 2:3; 1 Corinthians 16:10. Face to face [στομα προς στομα] . Lit, mouth to mouth. Compare proswpon prov proswpon, face to face, 1 Corinthians 8:12. Full [πεπληρωμενη] . Rev., rightly, fulfilled. 