30. manifold more in this present
	time—in Matthew (Matthew 19:29)
	"an hundredfold," to which Mark (Matthew 19:29- :) gives this most interesting addition, "Now in this
	present time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and
	children, and lands, with persecutions." We have here the
	blessed promise of a reconstruction of all human relationships and
	affections on a Christian basis and in a Christian state, after being
	sacrificed, in their natural form, on the altar of love to Christ.
	This He calls "manifold more"—"an hundredfold
	more"—than what they sacrificed. Our Lord was Himself the
	first to exemplify this new adjustment of His own relationships.
	(See on Matthew 19:29- :; and Matthew 19:29- :.) But this "with persecutions"; for how could
	such a transfer take place without the most cruel wrenches to flesh
	and blood? but the persecution would haply follow them into their new
	and higher circle, breaking that up too! But best of all, "in
	the world to come life everlasting." And 
	 When the shore is won
	at last 
	 Who will count the
	billows past? 
	 
	 KEBLE 
	
These promises are for every one
	who forsakes his all for Christ. But in Matthew (Matthew 19:29- :) this is prefaced by a special promise to the Twelve:
	"Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed Me in the
	Regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of His
	glory, ye also shall sit on twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes
	of Israel." Ye who have now adhered to Me shall, in the new
	kingdom, rule, or give law to, the great Christian world, here set
	forth in Jewish dress as the twelve tribes, presided over by the
	twelve apostles on so many judicial thrones. In this sense certainly
	the promise has been illustriously fulfilled [CALVIN,
	GROTIUS, LIGHTFOOT,
	&c.]. But if the promise refers to the yet future glory (as may
	be thought from Matthew 19:29- :, and as most take it), it points to the highest personal
	distinction of the first founders of the Christian Church. 
	Matthew 19:29- :. FULLER
	ANNOUNCEMENT OF HIS
	APPROACHING DEATH
	AND RESURRECTION. 
	(See on Matthew 19:29- :.)