16. But Jesus—"much
	displeased," says Mark ( :-); and invaluable addition. 
	said—"SUFFER
	THE LITTLE CHILDREN TO COME UNTO ME"—"AND
	FORBID THEM NOT," is the important addition of Matthew
	(Matthew 19:14) and Mark (Matthew 19:14- :). What words are these from the lips of Christ! The price
	of them is above rubies. But the reason assigned, "FOR
	OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF
	GOD," or "of
	heaven," as in Matthew 19:14,
	completes the previous information here conveyed; especially as
	interpreted by what immediately follows: "AND
	HE TOOK THEM UP IN HIS
	ARMS, PUT HIS HANDS UPON
	THEM, AND BLESSED THEM" (Matthew 19:14- :). It is surely not to be conceived that all our Lord meant
	was to inform us, that seeing grown people must become
	childlike in order to be capable of the Kingdom of God, therefore
	they should not hinder infants from coming to Him, and
	therefore He took up and blessed the infants themselves. Was
	it not just the grave mistake of the disciples that infants should
	not be brought to Christ, because only grown people could profit by
	Him, which "much displeased" our Lord? And though He took
	the irresistible opportunity of lowering their pride of reason, by
	informing them that, in order to enter the Kingdom, "instead
	of the children first becoming like them, they must themselves become
	like the children" [RICHTER
	in STIER], this was but by
	the way; and, returning to the children themselves, He took
	them up in His gracious arms, put His hands upon them and blessed
	them, for no conceivable reason but to show that they were thereby
	made capable, AS INFANTS,
	of the Kingdom of God. And if so, then "Can any man
	forbid water that these should not be baptized which have received
	the Holy Ghost as well as we?" (Matthew 19:14- :). But such application of the baptismal water can have no
	warrant here, save where the infants have been previously brought
	to Christ Himself for His benediction, and only as the sign
	and seal of that benediction. 
	Matthew 19:14- :. THE RICH
	YOUNG RULER
	AND DISCOURSE
	THEREON. 
	This case presents some remarkable
	points. (1) The man was of irreproachable moral character; and this
	amidst all the temptations of youth, for he was a "young
	man" (Matthew 19:22), and
	wealth, for "he was very rich" (Luke 18:23;
	Mark 10:22). (2) But restless
	notwithstanding, his heart craves eternal life. (3) Unlike the
	"rulers," to whose class he belonged (Mark 10:22- :), he so far believed in Jesus as to be persuaded He could
	authoritatively direct him on this vital point. (4) So earnest is he
	that he comes "running" and even "kneeling before
	Him," and that when He was gone forth into the war (Mark 10:22- :) —the high-road, by this time crowded with travellers to
	the passover; undeterred by the virulent opposition of the class he
	belonged to as a "ruler" and by the shame he might be
	expected to feel at broaching such a question in the hearing of a
	crowd and on the open road.