 38 40. ] His reception of men is not capricious, nor even of His own arbitrary choice; but as He came into the world to do the Father’s will, and that will is that all who come to Him by faith shall have life, so He receives  all such; loses none of them; and will raise them all up (here,  in the fullest and  blessed sense ) at the last day. (  ἀπολέσω again is not ‘  destroy ,’ ‘  condemn ,’ but  lose: see ch. John 12:25 ; John 17:12 . ἵνα μὴ ἐξ ἐμῆς αἰτίας ἀπόληταί τις , Euthym [92] ) Olshausen remarks, that “in ch. 4 we had only the inexhaustible refreshing of the  soul by the water of life; but this discourse goes further; that not even death itself shall destroy the  body of him who has been nourished by this bread of life” (ii. 167).
	 [92] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ἀναστήσω refers to the only resurrection which is the completion of the man in his glorified state; it does not set aside the ἀνάστασις κρίσεως , but that very term is a debasement of ἀνάστασις : its true sense is only ἀνάστασις ζωῆς .
	Bengel has beautifully given the connexion of this last promise with what went before: “hic finis est, ultra quem periculum nullum.” But there is much more than this in it. In this declaration ( Joh 6:39-40 ) is contained the key of the following discourse, John 6:44-59 . The  end of the work of God, as regards man, is the glorification of his restored and sanctified nature,  body, soul, and spirit , in eternity. Without this, salvation, restitution, would be incomplete. The adoption cannot be consummated without the redemption of the body. Romans 8:18-23 . And the glorification of the body, soul, and spirit, of the whole man, cannot take place but by means of  the glorified Body of the second Adam . “He who does not see this, will never understand either the Holy Communion, or this testimony of the Lord in its inner meaning.” Stier, iv. 243, edn. 2.
	The  θεωρῶν here is a different thing from the mere ὁρᾶν of John 6:36 . It is the awakening of the attention preparatory to faith, answering to the looking on the serpent of brass: τοῖς ὀφθαλμοῖς τῆς ψυχῆς , Euthym [93] ; but afterwards he makes the θεωρεῖν = πιστεύειν , to which it is only preparatory.
	 [93] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116