 1. ]  μετὰ ταῦτα gives us no fixed date: see on ch. John 5:1 . As Lücke remarks, the  ἀπῆλθ  .   πέραν τῆς θαλ  .… , if connected with the preceding discourse, would be unintelligible, and can only be understood by the fragmentary character of this Gospel as relates to mere narration, and the well-known fact being presupposed, that His Ministry principally took place in Galilee.
	Matt. gives this passage over the lake  in connexion with the execution of John the Baptist: Mark and Luke,  with the return of the Twelve from their mission . (The Twelve were probably gathered, or their gathering finished, in the interval since ch. John 5:47 , during which time their  mission also had taken place.)
	 τῆς Ι  ʼ.   τῆς Τιβ  . ] The last appellation is probably inserted for the sake of Gentile readers, to whom it was best known by that name: thus Pausan. ver. 7. 3, αὐτὸς οἶδα Ἰόρδανον λίμνην Τιβερίδα ὀνομαζομένην διοδεύοντα : but it was more usually called, as by Josephus, Γεννησάρ or Γεννησαρῖτις , 1Ma 11:67 ; Strabo xvi. 2 (Ptolem. John 6:15 , Lücke).
	 τῆς Τιβ  . cannot mean that He  came from Tiberias , however true that may have been. That would have been ἀπὸ or ἐκ Τιβεριάδος . It is possible, though not likely, that  τῆς Τιβ  . may have been a gloss, and have found its way into the text very early. But at all events we must not adopt the reading of [88] &c., εἰς τὰ μέρη τ . Τιβ ., for the fact was just otherwise: compare John 6:2 ; John 6:23 .
	 [88] The CODEX CANTABRIGIENSIS, or BEZÆ, so called because it was presented by Beza in 1581 to the University Library at Cambridge; where it is now exposed to view in a glass case. He procured it in 1562, from the monastery of St. Irenæus at Lyons. It is on parchment, and contains the Gospels and Acts, with a Latin version. Its lacunæ, which are many, will be perceived by the inner marginal letters in this edition. It once contained the Catholic Epistles: 3Jn 1:11-14 in Latin is all that now remains. It was edited with very accurate imitative types, at the expense of the University of Cambridge, by Dr. Kipling, in 1793. A new edition carefully revised and more generally accessible was published by Mr. Scrivener in 1864, and has been collated for this Edition. In the introduction some ten or twelve correctors are distinguished, whose readings are found in the notes at the end of the volume. The text of the Codex Bezæ is a very peculiar one, deviating more from the received readings and from the principal manuscript authorities than any other. It appears to have been written in France, and by a Latin transcriber ignorant of Greek, from many curious mistakes which occur in the text, and version attached. It is closely and singularly allied to the ancient Latin versions, so much so that some critics have supposed it to have been altered from the Latin: and certainly many of the phænomena of the MS. seem to bear out the idea. Where D differs in unimportant points from the other Greek MSS., the difference appears to be traceable to the influence of Latin forms and constructions. It has been observed, that in such cases it frequently agrees with the Latin codex  e (see the list further on). Its peculiarities are so great, that in many passages, while the sense remains for the most part unaltered, hardly three words together are the same as in the commonly received text. And that these variations often arise from capricious alteration, is evident from the way in which the Gospels, in parallel passages, have been more than commonly interpolated from one another in this MS. The concurrence with the ancient Latin versions seems to point to a very early state of the text; and it is impossible to set aside the value of D as an index to its history; but in critical weight it ranks the lowest of the leading MSS. Its age has been very variously given: the general opinion now is that it was written in the  latter end of the fifth or the sixth century .