 51. ]  ὁ ζῶν  , ‘containing life in itself,’ not merely supplying the waste of life with lifeless matter: see on ch. John 4:13-14 .
	 καὶ ὁ ἄρτος  .… ] From this time we hear no more of ἄρτος : this figure is dropped, and the reality takes its place.
	Some difficult questions arise regarding the sense and reference of this saying of our Lord. (1) Does it refer to HIS DEATH? and, (2) is there any reference to the ORDINANCE OF THE LORD’S SUPPER?
	(1) In treating this question I must at once reject all metaphorical and side-interpretations, as, that the  teaching of Christ is the Bread, and to be  taught by Him is feeding upon it (so Grotius, and the modern rationalists): that the  divine Nature of Christ , or His  sending of the Holy Spirit , or His  whole life of doing good on earth , can be meant: all such have against them the plain sense of the words, which, as Stier observes, are  very simple ordinary words; the only difficulty arising, when we come to enquire into their application to His own Person. The Bread of Life is  Himself: and, strictly treated, when we come to enquire  what , of that body, soul, and spirit, which constituted Himself, this Bread specifically is, we have His answer that it is  His Flesh which He will give (for this will be the meaning, whether the words ἣν ἐγὼ δώσω are to be regarded as part of the text or not) on behalf of the life of the world. We are then specifically directed to  His Flesh as the answer.
	Then,  what does that Flesh import? The flesh of animals is the ordinary food of men; but  not the blood . The blood, which is the life, is spilt at death, and is not in the flesh when eaten by us. Now this distinction must be carefully borne in mind. The  flesh here, (see John 6:53 ,) and the  eating of the flesh, are distinct from the blood , and  the drinking of the blood . We have no generalities merely, to interpret as we please: but the terms used are  precise and technical . It is then  only through or after the Death of the Lord , that by any propriety of language, His Flesh could be said to be eaten.
	Then another distinction must be remembered: The flesh of animals which we eat is  dead flesh. It is already the prey of corruption; we eat it, and die ( Joh 6:49 ). But  this Bread is  living Bread; not dead flesh, but living Flesh. And therefore  manducation by the teeth materially is not to be thought of here; but some kind of eating by which the  living Flesh of the Son of God is made the  living sustenance of those who partake of it. Now His Flesh and Blood were  sundered by Death. Death was the shedding of His precious Blood, which  He did not afterwards resume: see ch. John 20:27 , and Luke 24:39 . His Flesh is the glorified substance of His Resurrection-Body, now at the right hand of God. It is then in His  Resurrection form only that His Flesh can be eaten, and be living food for the living man. I cannot therefore see how  any thing short of His Death can be here meant. By that Death, He has given His Flesh for the  life of the world: not merely that  they who believe on Him may, in the highest sense, have life; but that  ὁ κόσμος may have life.  The very existence of all the created world is owing to, and held together by, that Resurrection-Body of the Lord. In Him  all things are gathered together and reconciled to God: τὰ πάντα ἐν αὐτῷ  συνέστηκεν  , Colossians 1:17 .
	(2) The question  whether there is here any reference to the ORDINANCE OF THE LORD’S SUPPER, has been  inaccurately put . When cleared of inaccuracy in terms, it will mean,  Is the subject here dwelt upon, the same as that which is set forth in the ordinance of the Lord’s Supper? And of this there can surely be no doubt. To the  ordinance itself , there is here  no reference; nor  could there well have been any. But the spiritual verity which underlies the ordinance is one and the same with that here insisted on; and so considered, the discourse is, as generally treated, most important towards a right understanding of the ordinance.
	On the  history of the exegesis of this passage, see Lücke ii pp. 149 159 (3rd edn.), and Excursus ii., in his 2nd edn. (omitted in his 3rd); also Tholuck and Olshausen, in loc. To attempt to recount the various opinions, would exceed the limits of a note in an edition of the whole Testament: for the present subject is one in which the manifold dogmatical variations of individual belief have influenced Commentators to such an extent as to render accurate classification impossible. I may roughly state, that three leading opinions may be traced: that of those who hold ( α ) that  no reference to the Holy Communion is intended, among whom are Origen and Basil, of the ancients; and of the moderns, the Swiss Reformers, Zwingle and Calvin (the former however not very decidedly, see Olsh. ii. 173 note), Luther, Melanchthon. ( β ) That the whole passage regards  exclusively the Holy Communion, among whom are Chrysostom, Cyril, Theophylact, Euthymius, the Schoolmen, and the Roman Catholic expositors, with a few exceptions. ( γ ) That the  subject and  idea of the Holy Communion, not the ordinance is referred to: to which class belong the best modern Commentators in Germany, e.g. Lücke, Tholuck, Olshausen, Stier. Bengel’s note to the same effect is important: “Jesus verba sua scienter ita formavit, ut statim et semper illa quidem de spirituali fruitione sui agerent proprie; sed posthac eadem consequenter etiam in augustissimum S. Cœnæ mysterium, quum id institutum foret, convenirent. Etenim ipsam rem hoc sermone propositam in S. Cœnam contulit; tantique hoc sacramentum est momenti, ut facile existimari possit, Jesum, ut proditionem Judæ John 6:71 , et mortem suam hoc versu, ita etiam S. Cœnam, de qua inter hæc verba certissime secum cogitavit, uno ante anno prædixisse, ut discipuli possent prædictionis postea recordari. Tota hæc de carne et sanguine J. C. oratio Passionem spectat, et cum ea S. Cœnam. Hinc separata carnis et sanguinis mentio constanter. Nam in passione sanguis ex corpore eductus est, Agnusque mactatus.”