 53. ] Our Lord not only ratifies their φαγεῖν , but adds to it a more wonderful thing; that they must also do that against which a prohibition might seem to have existed from Noah downwards,  drink His Blood . But observe, this Blood is not to be  eaten in the Flesh,  which was the forbidden thing (Genesis 9:4 ; Lev 17:10-16 ), in its strict literal form: but to be  drunk , separate from the flesh: again  presupposing death . Now as the Flesh of Christ (see above) is the Resurrection-Body which He now has, and in which all things consist: so is His Blood (“the blood is the  life .” Leviticus 17:11 ; Lev 17:14 ) the Life which He gave up, paid down, as the penalty for the sin of the world. By the shedding, pouring forth, of that Blood, is remission of sin.
	It is quite impossible that these words should, as De Wette maintains, be merely an expansion of τὴν σάρκα φαγεῖν . Even had the idea of τὸ αἷμα πίνειν been one familiar to the Jews, the construction would not have allowed such an interpretation; but  new as it was , and  abhorrent from their habits and law , we must regard it as specially and purposely added.
	But  what is this eating and drinking? Clearly, not  merely faith: for faith answers to the  hand reached forth for the food , but is  not the act of eating . Faith is a  necessary condition of the act: so that we can hardly say with Augustine, “crede, et manducasti;” but ‘crede et manducabis.’ Inasmuch as Faith will necessarily in its energizing lead to this partaking, we sometimes incorrectly say that it  is Faith: but for strict accuracy this is not enough. To eat the flesh of Christ, is  to realize, in our inward life, the mystery of His Body now in heaven ,  to digest and assimilate our own portion in that Body .
	To drink His Blood, is  to realize, in our inward life, the mystery of His satisfaction for sin, to digest and assimilate our own portion in that satisfaction, the outpouring of that Blood . And both these definitions may be gathered into one, which is: The eating of His Flesh and drinking of His Blood import the making to ourselves and using as  objectively real , those two great Truths of our Redemption in Him, of which our Faith  subjectively convinces us.
	And of this realizing of Faith He has been pleased to appoint certain symbols in the Holy Communion, which He has commanded to be received; to signify to us the spiritual process, and to assist us towards it.
	 οὐκ ἔχ  .   ζωὴν ἐν ἑαυτ  . ] ‘Ye have not in you that spring of life, which shall overcome death, and lead ( Joh 6:54 ) to the resurrection in the true sense:’ see above, John 6:44 , and notice again the solemn  refrain .
	 τρώγων ] It is not necessary to see any more literal ‘eating’ in the word than in φαγών : it expresses the  present of φαγών , which must be either τρώγων or ἐσθίων , and the real sense conveyed is, that by the very act of inward realization, which is the ‘manducatio,’ the possession of eternal life is certified.