 5 .]  And one from among the elders (“dicunt aliqui,” says Lyra, “quod fuit Matthæus evangelista, qui dixit in persona Christi, Data est mihi omnis potestas in cœlo et in terra:” he himself preferring  Peter , who had before this suffered martyrdom, and who was “unus, id est, primus, inter Apostolos.” But see the interpretation of the elders above, ch. Revelation 4:4 . The elders, in their triumphant place round God’s throne, know better than the Evangelist, yet clothed with the infirmities of this earthly state, the nature and extent of the victory and glory of Christ.
	It is the practice of the book to introduce the heavenly beings thus talking with the Seer: cf. ch. Revelation 7:13 f.; Revelation 10:4 ; Revelation 10:8 ff.; Revelation 17:1 ; Revelation 19:9 ; Revelation 21:9 , &c. Revelation 22:8 , &c.)  saith to me, Weep not: behold (the  ἰδού serves to present before him the scene of which he says in the next verse καὶ εἶδον .…)  the Lion which is from the tribe of Judah (from ref. Gen.: the  lion , as victorious:  from the tribe of Judah , as the Messiah of promise, sprung from among the brethren of the Seer, and so carrying more comfort to him),  the root of David (from ref. Isa.: i. e. the branch or sucker come up from the ancient root, and so representing it: not, as Calov., al., the Divine root which brought forth David, to which Vitringa also approaches very near: for the evident design here is to set forth Christ as  sprung from the tribe of Judah and lineage of David, and His victory as His exaltation through suffering, Rev 5:6 ),  conquered (as De W. well remarks, this word needs no comparison with any Hebrew usage to explain it (so Vitringa: “vox Hebræa זכה circa recentiora tempora reip. Hebr. receptissima fuit hoc usu ut significaverit mereri, dignum esse, haberi vel censeri: imo etiam simpliciter obtinere, nancisci provinciam v. munus administrandum.” And so the majority of Commentators, as E. V., “hath prevailed to open:” most of all Ewald, “Messiam a Deo veniam hanc petiisse et impetrasse”), but is simply to be taken as standing in its proper sense in a pregnant construction. The usual rendering loses sight of the victory of Christ, and of the uniform sense in which the verb νικᾷν is constantly used in this book. The aor. must not be resolved into a perfect, but points to the past event of that great victory, by virtue of which the opening is in His power), (  so as )  to open (construction, see above)  the book and (in order to that)  its seven seals .