 8 10 .]  Song of praise following thereupon .  And when he took (the aor.  ἔλαβεν is not an imperfect, “  when he was taking ,” “  als es nahm ,” Luth.: nor again is it a pluperf. “  when he had taken ,” as E. V. (our idiom perhaps so requiring it), and many Commentators (even De W. and Düsterd.); but a pure past: the context, and not the word itself, indicating that the act to be described was subsequent to that thus expressed. And so in all places commonly cited for aorists “  put for ” pluperfects)  the book, the four living-beings and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb (who shares the divine throne, and honour, and worship, cf. Revelation 5:13 ; ch. Revelation 22:1 ; and ch. Rev 3:21 ),  having each (  of them ) (  ἔχοντες ἕκαστος apparently applies only to the elders: not for any grammatical reason, but on account of the symbolism: for
	1) it is unnatural to suppose figures described as the four living-beings are, having harps or vials; and even if this is not to be pressed (see above on Rev 5:7 ), yet
	2) it is inconsistent with the right view of the four living-beings, as representing creation, that they should present the prayers of the Saints)  a harp (  κιθάρα , properly a zithern or kind of guitar: the harp of David, which the LXX call κινύρα in 1 Kings 16:16 ; 1 Kings 16:23 , al., but always κιθάρα in the Psalms, is described by Josephus, Antt. vii. 12. 3, ἡ μὲν κινύρα , δέκα χορδαῖς ἐξημμένη , τύπτεται πλήκτρῳ : and then he adds, ἡ δὲ νὰβλα , δώδεκα φθόγγους ἔχουσα , τοῖς δακτύλοις κρούεται . But David, in the passages above cited, appears to have played with his hand: so that perhaps the κινύρα or κιθάρα was played in both ways),  and golden vials (cups, or bowls, or, by the context, censers)  full of incense (  θυμίαμα is generally used in the plural, e. g. Herod. ii. 86, διηθέουσι θυμιήμασι τετριμμένοισι : viii. 99, ἐθυμίων θυμιήματα ),  which (  αἵ might well have θυμιαμάτων for its antecedent, being fem. to suit προσευχαί below: but it is perhaps more likely that φιάλας is its antecedent each vial being full of incense)  are (represent: see reff.)  the prayers of the saints (see reff.: especially ch. Revelation 8:3 ; Psalms 140:2 , κατευθυνθήτω ἡ προσευχή μου ὡς θυμίαμα ἐνώπιόν σου . The twenty-four elders, representing as they do the whole church of God, offer the praises and the prayers of the whole church: the harps symbolizing the former, the censers the latter. Of any thing approaching intercession on the part of the glorified saints for the church below, or indeed of the glorified saints at all, there is not the least mention, nor does this passage at all touch the question of the fact of such intercession. In the division of the two employments, the most of prayer falls to the lot of the church in trial, and the most of praise to the church in glory: and this is perhaps the reason why, while they have harps on which they themselves play, they only offer or present the vials of incense. De W. remarks, that the Writer of the Apocalypse seems not to know any thing of the intercessory office of Christ. But that office is prominent through this whole scene. What is the lamb as it had been slain what the ἠγόρασας τῷ θεῷ ἐν τῷ αἵματί σου , but recognitions of it? It underlies the whole book):  and they sing (why  present? Is it because the sound still lingered in his ears? Or more probably, as describing their special and glorious office generally, rather than the mere one particular case of its exercise?)  a new song (new, because the  occasion was new; the manifestation of the worthiness of the Lamb calls forth fresh words springing from fresh and living thoughts. These words which follow could not be spoken except by those who had seen Christ’s redemption complete; therefore they must needs be new),  saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals of it: for Thou wert slain, and didst redeem (the object is not expressed, nor need it be: see similar constructions with ἐκ , Mat 25:8 ; 1 John 4:13 . The ἡμᾶς , which is in the MSS. added or prefixed to the verb, has considerable authority, but on the whole seems more likely to have been inserted, considering the prevalent early interpretation of the elders as Apostles and Prophets, than omitted because they were imagined to be angels)  to God through (  ἐν , as the vehicle, and conditioning element of redemption)  thy blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation (the only thing to be noticed is the quadruple  number of these specifications, as indicating universality: see again below, Revelation 5:13 . To identify φυλῆς as Bengel, or λαοῦ as Züllig, with the  Jewish people , seems forbidden by the  πάσης ),  and madest them a kingdom and priests, and they reign upon the earth (“this clause differs from that in ch. Revelation 1:6 , both by the  καί before ἱερεῖς , and by the important addition καὶ βασιλ . κ . τ . λ . This last would be superfluous, if we were with Hengstb., al., to adhere to the rec. βασιλεῖς , or if βασιλείαν could have the sense given to it by Hengstb. in ch. Revelation 1:6 , ‘a people invested with kingly power.’ Here we have three particulars: 1) that those who are bought to be God’s own are made into a kingdom, viz. God’s, 2) (  καί ) that they are made into priests, 3) (  καί ) that they are invested with kingly power. So rightly Ebrard.” Düsterd.
	The present βασιλεύουσιν is not to be rendered as a future, but keeps its own meaning (the whole aspect and reference of this heavenly vision being  not future , but  present : the world and church as now existing, cf. Eph 2:6 ). The Church even now, in Christ her Head, reigns on the earth: all things are being put under her feet, as under His: and even if this meaning be questioned, we have her kingly rank and office asserted in the present, even in the midst of persecution and contempt).