 11, 12 .]  The assenting chorus of the host of angels .  And I saw (  εἶδον , not in a general vague sense, introducing a fresh particular merely; but in its proper sense: John saw the host of angels whose voice he heard: cf. ch. Revelation 6:1 f. The gloss. ord. refers εἶδον to what has preceded: but this is contrary to St. John’s usage),  and I heard [  as it were ]  a (or,  the : φωνή , like many other substantives in regimen with their possessive genitives, being definite though anarthrous)  voice of many angels around the throne and the living-beings and the elders (i. e. surrounding on all sides, in the more distant space, the smaller circle hitherto described. The Church, as the vehicle of the work of Redemption, of which Creation is but a part, is the central and crowning manifestation of God’s power and love and wisdom. Round it, and Him who is its Head, the heavenly hosts are ranged in humble admiration; and into its wonders they desire to look. Cf. Ephesians 3:10 ; 1Pe 1:12 );  and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands (i. e. innumerable in its vastness. See Psalms 68:18 , and ref. Dan., where χίλιαι χιλιάδες comes before μύριαι μυριάδες : but it is of very little import whether the specification is by way of climax or of anti-climax, the same idea being conveyed),  saying (the appositional nom. instead of the gen.: as in ch. Rev 4:1 )  with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb which hath been slain to receive (by way of  ascribed praise : cf. ch. Rev 4:11 and note)  the power and riches and wisdom and might and honour and glory and blessing (here, as in ch. Revelation 7:12 , but in differing order, we have  seven particulars of ascription. But here there is a difference both from ch. Rev 7:12 and Revelation 4:11 . In each of those places the art. is repeated before each particular: here, one article includes them all. Bengel well remarks, that we must regard them all as if they formed but one word. And when they are thus regarded, the article seems to point out the fact of all these, as one, belonging to God, whose power and glory the Lamb is declared worthy to share.
	Of the particulars themselves,  πλοῦτος is better kept in its generality, all riches and fulness, than limited, as by De W., to  spiritual riches; see 1 Chronicles 29:11 ;  εὐλογία is  blessing , in the sense so frequent when the word and its cognate verb are used of an act passing from man to God: viz. that of ascribed praise; the  will on the part of the creature, though unaccompanied by the  power , to return blessing for blessing conferred The idea of Bengel, that the septenary number has to do with the seven seals, is hardly probable: the number, as indicating completeness, running through the whole book).