 6 .]  The vision of the Lamb .  And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living-beings, and in the midst of the elders (the words seem to indicate the middle point before the throne; whether on the glassy sea (De W.) or not, does not appear; but certainly not  on the throne, from what follows in the next verse.  ἐν μέσῳ is repeated, as ἀναμέσον in Leviticus 27:12 ; Lev 27:14 )  a lamb (the use of ἀρνίον , the  diminutive , as applied to our Lord, is peculiar to the Apocalypse. It is difficult to say what precise idea is meant to be conveyed by this form. Elsewhere, it is ἀμνός , John 1:29 ; John 1:36 ; 1 Peter 1:19 ; Acts 8:32 ; and as ἀμνός is found in Isaiah 53:7 , from which the figure here is taken, the alteration of the word appears to be purposely made. Possibly, as De W., it may be to put forward more prominently the idea of meekness and innocence)  standing (i. e. in its natural living position: the word is probably chosen on account of what immediately follows. Though ὡς ἐσφαγμένον , it was not lying, but standing),  as if slain (i. e. retaining the appearance of death-wounds on its body: looking as if it had been slain: cf. ch. Revelation 1:18 . So the majority of Commentators: cf. especially Vitringa; “vivens equidem, verumtamen insignitum nota majoris alicujus in jugulo vulneris, et conspersum sanguine.” Ebrard is quite wrong in supposing that the ὡς has any emphasis on it: it merely serves to solve the apparent paradox lying in the juxtaposition of ἑστηκός and ἐσφαγμένον ),  having (the gender again is that not of the thing expressed, but of the thing signified. See above, ch. Rev 4:1 )  seven horns (the horn is the well-known emblem of might: cf. 1 Samuel 2:10 ; 1 Kings 22:11 ; Psalms 112:9 ; Psalms 148:14 ; Daniel 7:7 ; Daniel 7:20 ff., Daniel 8:3 ff.; ch. Revelation 17:3 ff. The perfect number  seven represents that “all power is given unto Him in heaven and earth,” Mat 28:18 )  and seven eyes, which (eyes)  are the seven spirits of God, sent forth (as they have been) into the whole earth (i. e. which eyes represent the watchful active operation of God’s Spirit poured forth through the Death and by the victory of the Lamb, upon all flesh and all creation. The weight of the whole sentence lies on the predicative anarthrous participle  ἀπεσταλμένα . As the seven burning lamps before the throne represented the Spirit of God immanent in the Godhead, so the seven eyes of the Lamb represent the same Spirit in his sevenfold perfection, profluent, so to speak, from the incarnate Redeemer: busied in His world-wide energy: the very word ἀπεσταλμένα reminding us of the  apostolic work and church.
	Observe, οἵ εἰσιν does not as Bed [96] (“Spiritus in Christo septiformis propter eminentiam potestatis cornibus, propter illuminationem gratiæ comparatur oculis”), Bengel, De W., al., refer to both κέρατα and ὀφθαλμοί : this would be of course grammatically possible, but it seems otherwise decided here both by the context, and by Zechariah 4:10 ; ἑπτὰ οὗτοι ὀφθαλμοί εἰσιν [add κυρίου A; pref. [97] ], οἱ ἐπιβλέποντες (E. V. which run to and fro; Heb. מְשׁוֹטְטים , from שׁוּט , remigare, cursitare) ἐπὶ πᾶσαν τὴν γῆν ).
	 [96] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [97] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .