 1 .]  The sealed book .  And I saw (notice, that from the general vision, in the last chapter, of the heavenly Presence of God, the scene is so far only changed that, all that remaining as described, a particular incident is now seen for the first time, and is introduced by καὶ εἶδον ) (lying)  on the right hand (i. e. the right hand was open, and the book lay on the open hand. So in ch. Revelation 20:1 , where see note. The common rendering,  in the right hand, misses the ἐπί with the accus. Beza’s and Ebrard’s rendering, “on the right side of Him on the throne,” is shewn to be wrong by what follows Revelation 5:7 , where the Lamb takes the book  ἐκ τῆς δεξιᾶς τοῦ καθημένου ἐπὶ τ . θρ .: see there. The lying on the open hand imports, that  on God’s part there was no withholding of His future purposes as contained in this book. The only obstacle to unsealing it was as follows, Rev 5:3 )  of Him that sat upon the throne a book (i. e. “a roll of a book,” as in Ezekiel 2:9 f. This explanation alone will suit the meaning of the word as applied to the contemporary practice regarding sacred writings. See also Jeremiah 36:2 ; Jeremiah 36:23 ; Zechariah 5:2 ; and below)  written within and behind (such scrolls, written not only, as commonly, on the inner side, but also on the outer, which, to one reading the inner, was  behind (see below), are mentioned by Pliny, Epist. iii. 5, who says of his uncle Pliny the elder, “tot ista volumina peregit, electorumque commentarios CLX mihi reliquit,  opistographos quidem et minutissime scriptos, qua ratione multiplicatur hic numerus:” by Lucian, Vitarum auctio, i. p. 549, ἡ πήρα δέ σοι θερμῶν ἔσται μεστή , καὶ  ὀπισθογράφων βιβλίων : by Juvenal, Sat. i. 6, “summi plena jam margine libri Scriptus et  in tergo nondum finitus Orestes:” by Martial, viii. 22, “Scribit in  aversa Picens epigrammata  charta .” This writing within and without, so that the whole roll was full, betokens the  completeness of the contents as containing the divine counsels: there was no room for addition to that which was therein written. This would be of itself a sufficient reason for the  fulness of the scroll. To see, as Elliott, i. p. 99; iii. p. 4, two  divisions of written matter indicated, by the writing within, and by that on the back, correspondent to one another, seems hardly warranted by the text),  fast-sealed with seven seals (not, consisting of seven writings, each sealed with one seal, as Grot. (who joins καὶ ὀπισθ . with κατεσφραγισμ .), Vitringa, Wetst., Storr, Ewald, al.: but one book, fastened with seven seals, which were visible to the Apostle. Various ingenious methods have been imagined, by which the opening of each of these seals may have loosened a corresponding portion of the roll: see e. g. the apocalyptic chart in Elliott, vol. i. p. 111, and its explanation, ib. note 2, p. 98. But they all proceed on the assumption that the roll in the vision was  unfolded , which is no where to be gathered from the text. Nor have we any right to say that the separate visions which follow the opening of each seal are identical with  separate portions of writing on the roll. These visions are merely symbolic representations of the progress of God’s manifestation of the purpose of His will; but no portion of the roll is actually unfolded, nor is any thing read out of the book. Not its contents, but the gradual steps of access to it, are represented by these visions. What is  in that book, shall not be known, until, in full completion, γνωρισθῇ ταῖς ἀρχαῖς καὶ ταῖς ἐξουσίαις ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρανίοις διὰ τῆς ἐκκλησίας ἡ πολυποίκιλος σοφία τοῦ θεοῦ , Ephesians 3:10 ; till those material events, which marked the gradual opening of the sum of God’s purposes, are all past, and the roll is contemplated in its completeness by the spirits of the glorified hereafter. This  completeness is here set forth to us again by the mystic number  seven . See some excellent remarks on the entire distinctness of the  opening of the seals , and the  reading of the book , in Corn.-a-lap., p. 77 c: “nihil enim in libro legi poterat, nisi post resignationem omnium septem sigillorum: omnibus enim reseratis, tunc demum aperiri et legi potuit liber, non ante.” So also Ribera, p. 197: “calamitates illæ quæ sigillis continebantur, prius omnes pene venturæ erant, quam ea quæ in libro scripta erant, apparerent et cognoscerentur.” Mr. Elliott, in his work “Apocalypsis Alfordiana,” specially directed against my commentary on this book, treats this view with all the scorn which is unfortunately so characteristic of him, calling it absurd, unscriptural, &c. He has not produced a word of proof, or even illustrative corroboration, of his own view, that the opening of each seal corresponds to the unrolling of a certain portion of the scroll: but has contented himself with re-asserting it in the strongest language, and pouring contempt on those who hold the other view. I grieve to say, that this is so often the case throughout his above-mentioned work, as to render it generally impossible for me to meet his objections in argument. One who distrusts his own as well as all other explanations, and believes that much of this mysterious book is as yet unfathomed, is no match for one who hesitates not on every occasion to shew his confidence that he is in the right, and all who differ from him are wrong.
	An enquiry here arises,  What is represented by this Book? Opinions have been very various. 1) Some of our earliest Commentators understood by it the Old Testament: or the Old and New conjoined. So, apparently, Orig [89] (in Ezech., Hom. xiv., vol. iii. p. 405: where after quoting our Revelation 5:2-5 , he says, “quamdiu non venit Deus meus, clausa erat lex, clausus sermo propheticus, velata lectio veteris testamenti.” But again, he says, ἡ γὰρ πὰσα γραφή ἐστιν ἡ δηλουμένη διὰ τῆς βίβλου : so that he can hardly be safely quoted for this view), Euseb. (Demonstr. Ev. viii. 2, vol. iv. p. 386, ποίας δὲ σφραγῖδας , ἢ τῶν προφητῶν τὰς ἀσαφείας ;), Epiphanius (Hær. li. 32, vol. i. p. 454. ὅσα γὰρ ἦν νόμῳ καὶ ἐν προφήταις σκοτεινὰ καὶ αἰνιγματώδη , ταῦτα ὁ κύριος ᾠκονόμησε διὰ τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος εἰς ἡμῶν σωτηρίαν τῷ δούλῳ αὐτῷ Ἰωάννῃ ἀποκαλύψαι ), Hippolytus (in Dan. frag. xix., Migne, Patrol. vol. x. p. 653 f., ὅτι δὲ τὰ παλαιὰ διὰ νόμου καὶ προφητῶν λελαλημένα πάντα ἦν ἐσφραγισμένα κ . ἄγνωστα τοῖς ἀνθρώποις ὑπάρχοντα Ἠσαΐας λέγει (29:11).… τὰ μὲν οὖν πάλαι ἐσφραγισμένα νῦν διὰ τῆς χάριτος τοῦ κυρίου πάντα τοῖς ἁγίοις ἠνέῳγεν . αὐτὸς γὰρ ἦν ἡ τελεία σφραγὶς καὶ κλεῖς ἡ ἐκκλησία , ὁ ἀνοίγων καὶ οὐδεὶς κλείει , κ . τ . λ ., ὡς Ἰωάννης λέγει . καὶ πάλιν ὁ αὐτός φησι  καὶ εἶδον , κ . τ . λ . our Revelation 5:1-2 ; Revelation 5:6 ; Rev 5:9 ), Andreas ( βίβλος δὲ καὶ ἡ προφητεία νοεῖται ); Victorinus (“in dextera autem sedentis super tribunal liber scriptus intus et foris, signatus sigillis septem, vetus testamentum significat, quod est datum inmanibus Dei nostri”), Primasius, Bed [90] (“hæc visio mysteria nobis Sanctæ Scripturæ per incarnationem Domini patefacta demonstrat. Cujus unitas concors vetus testamentum quasi exterius, et novum continet interius:” and so Augustine), Tichonius (similarly to Bed [91] ), Hilary (Prol. to Comm. on Psalms, vol. i. p. 6, “Liber iste, et præterita et futura in his quæ intus et foris scripta erant continens, a nemine dignus est aperiri, &c. … Sed vicit leo ex tribu Judæ, &c.: quia solus septem illa … signacula quibus liber clausus est, per sacramentum corporationis suæ et divinitatis absolvit. Id ipsum autem Dominus post resurrectionem testatus est, dicens Quoniam oportet omnia impleri quæ scripta sunt in lege Moysis et in prophetis, et in psalmis de me.” But see more on Hilary under 2), below), Ambrose (Comm. in Psal. 118:64, § viii. 64, vol. i. (ii. Migne), p. 1078, “legisti in Apocalypsi quod Agnus librum signatum aperuit, quem nullus ante aperire poterat. Quia solus Dominus Jesus in evangelio suo prophetarum ænigmata et legis mysteria revelavit: solus scientiæ clavem detulit, et dedit aperire nobis”), Jerome (Comm. on Isaiah 29:9-12 , vol. iv. p. 393: “Le [92] autem de tribu Juda Dominus Jesus Christus est, qui solvit signacula libri, non proprie unius, ut multi putant, Psalmorum David, sed omnium Scripturarum, quæ uno scriptæ sunt Spiritu sancto, et propterea unus liber appellantur”), al.: and so Joachim, Gregory the Great, Haym [93] , Ansbert (as Bed [94] above), the glossa ordinaria (the same), Aquinas, al. I have given several of the above testimonies at length, as helping us to estimate this view. For it will appear from them, that the opening of the seals was very generally by these fathers and interpreters taken to mean, the fulfilment, and consequent bringing to light, of O. T. prophecy by the events of Redemption as accomplished in the Person of our Lord. But, if so, then this view cannot consist with what follows in the Apocalypse. For manifestly the opening of the seals, as notified by the symbolic visions belonging to each, does not relate to things past, but to things which were yet future when this book was written. Nor can this apparent consensus of the early expositors be cited, as it has been e. g. by Dr. Adams (“Sealed Book, &c.” pp. 82 ff.), in support of any  other view than theirs, in which this Book shall still represent the O. T. Such for example is that of Dr. Adams himself, who regards the opening of the sealed book as symbolizing a future republication of the genuine text of the O. T., by which the Jewish people is to be converted. The untenableness of this view appears at once, if only from (so to speak) its touching the apocalyptic course of visions at this point only, and finding no justification or expansion in any of the symbolic visions accompanying the opening of the seals.
	 [89] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [90] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [91] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [92] Leo,  Bp. of Rome , 440 461
	 [93] Haymo,  Bp. of Halberstadt , 841 853
	 [94] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	2) Some have held the Book to be  Christ Himself : so Hilary ((?) as cited by Corn.-a-lap. from the Prologue to the Psalms, “Liber, ait, hic est Christus, quia Christus est hujus libri materia et argumentum:” and, “sigilla septem, ait Hilarius, sunt septem præcipua Christi mysteria, &c.” But the words are not found in that prologue), Heterius (Migne, Patr. Lat., vol. xcvi. pp. 963 ff.), Paschasius (Præfatio in Matth. p. 11). But for the same reasons as above, neither can this be held.
	3) Wetstein takes it to be “libellus repudii a Deo scriptus nationi Judaicæ:” which for the same reason falls to the ground.
	4) Schöttgen, “sententiam a Judice et patribus ejus conscriptis in hostes ecclesiæ conceptam:” and similarly in the main, Hengstenberg: but this view, though strongly defended by Hengstb., is not borne out by the contents of these chapters.
	5) Alcasar holds it to be that part of the Apocalypse which treats of the opening of the seven seals (ch. 6 11): and nearly so Hengstb. also, except that he allows only from Rev 6:1 to Rev 8:1 for this portion. But both are obviously wrong, seeing that the opening of the seventh seal evolves a series of symbolic actions which only ends with the book itself. So that this comes to
	6) the Book being = the Apocalypse itself: so Corn.-a-lap., seeing in the seven seals that part relating to their opening, and after that regarding the subsequent visions concerning Antichrist and the end of the world, as the  contents of the book itself . But he seems, in concluding his paragraph, to resolve this view into the wider one
	7) that the Book represents “divinæ providentiæ concilium et præfinitio, qua apud Se statuit et decrevit facere vel permittere, &c.” This is very nearly that of Areth [95] (in Catena, τί δὲ τὸ βιβλίον ; ἡ πάνσοφος τοῦ θεοῦ καὶ ἀνεπίληπτος μνήμη , ἣν καὶ ὁ προφήτης Δαβὶδ καὶ Μωυσῆς παρεδήλου , ὁ μὲν διὰ τοῦ Ἐπὶ τὸ βιβλίον σου πάντες γραφήσονται · ὁ δὲ διὰ τοῦ Κἀμὲ ἐξάλειψον ἐκ τῆς βίβλου ἧς ἔγραψας ), Lyra (“liber iste est divina scientia, in qua omnia sunt scripta”), Vitringa, Mede (“codex fatidicus seu consiliorum Dei”), Ewald, De Wette, Stern, Düsterd., al. And this is, in the main, my own view. We may observe, that it is in fact but a limitation of this meaning, when many understand the Book to contain the prophetic fortunes of the Church of Christ: but also that it is a limitation which has arisen from the mistake, noticed above, of confounding the opening of the seals with the reading of the contents of the book. Those successive openings, or if we will, the fortunes and periods of the Church and world, are but so many preparations for that final state of perfection in which the Lamb shall reveal to the Church the contents of the Book itself).
	 [95] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2