Matthew 22:35.  Then one of them, a lawyer,  an expounder of the law, ‘one of the scribes’ (Mark). Luke 10:25-37 refers to another though similar occurrence.
	 Tempting him. The statements of Mark (Mark 12:28) and Luke (Luke 20:39), do not indicate any specially hostile purpose on the part of this ‘lawyer.’ Such a purpose seems to be out of keeping with the hearty response of the ‘scribe’ and our Lord’s commendatory words to him (Mark 12:32-44). We infer that this man, an intelligent Pharisee, a student of the law, was pleased with our Lord’s previous interpretation. But though personally better than his party, he was, perhaps unconsciously, their tool, in putting the tempting question. The great difficulty is, in discovering how it could be a ‘tempting’ question. Explanations: ( 1 .) Matthew classes it with the attacks, because it was put at that time, not   because it was a temptation. This is contrary both to the Evangelist’s words, and to his habits as a writer. ( 2 .) The lawyer only desired, by this test, to have his favorable impressions confirmed. But the previous answer had fully sustained the law. ( 3 .) The temptation lay in the distinction of the great and small commandments (see Matthew 22:36). As this was a disputed point, any answer would place our Lord in opposition to some party. This makes the attack very weak. ( 4 .) The question was designed to draw forth in response, the first commandment: ‘Thou shalt have no other Gods before me,’ so that this might be used against His claim to be the Son of God. This design was defeated by His adding the second table of the law (Matthew 22:39) as like the first: ‘As the second commandment is subordinate to the first, and yet like unto it, so the Son of man is subordinate to the Father, and yet like unto Him’ (Lange). This explanation is most satisfactory. The answer thus prepares the way for His triumphant counter-question (Matthew 22:42-45). The seemingly innocent question becomes the greatest temptation. They expected by His answer, either to disprove His Messiahship, or to find in His own words a basis for the charge of blasphemy in making Himself the Son of God. This charge they did bring forward in the council (chap. Matthew 26:63-66), and before Pilate (John 19:7), and it was probably in their thoughts when they put this question a few days before.
	