Verse Romans 10:14. How then shall they call on him — As the apostle had laid so much stress on believing in order to salvation, and as this doctrine, without farther explanation, might be misunderstood, it was necessary to show how this faith was produced; and therefore he lays the whole doctrine down in a beautifully graduated order.1. There can be no salvation without the Gospel: a dispensation of mercy and grace from God alone, here called, Romans 10:15, the Gospel of peace; glad tidings of good things.2. This must be preached, proclaimed in the world for the obedience of faith.3. None can effectually preach this unless he have a Divine mission; for how shall they preach except they be SENT, Romans 10:15. The matter must come from God; and the person mho proclaims it must have both authority and unction from on high.4. This Divinely-commissioned person must be heard: it is the duty of all, to whom this message of salvation is sent, to hear it with the deepest reverence and attention.5. What is heard must be credited; for they who do not believe the Gospel as the record which God has given of his Son cannot be saved, Romans 10:14.6. Those who believe must invoke God by Christ, which they cannot do unless they believe in him; and in this way alone they are to expect salvation. Professing to believe in Christ, without earnest, importunate prayer for salvation, can save no man. All these things the apostle lays down as essentially necessary; and they all follow from his grand proposition, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. But, says the apostle, How shall they CALL upon him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they BELIEVE in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they HEAR without a preacher? And how shall they PREACH except they be sent? And with what message which can bring salvation can they be sent, but with the GOSPEL OF PEACE, the GLAD TIDINGS OF GOOD THINGS. When, therefore, there is:1st, a proper MESSAGE;2dly, a proper MESSENGER;3dly, the message PREACHED, proclaimed, or properly delivered by him;4thly, the proclamation properly HEARD and attentively considered by the people;5thly, the message which they have heard, conscientiously BELIEVED;6thly, the name of the Lord Jesus, by whom alone this salvation is provided, most fervently INVOKED; then,7thly, salvation, or redemption from sin and misery, and the enjoyment of peace and happiness, will be the result of such calling, believing, hearing, preaching, sending, and message sent:-and thus the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith is guarded from abuse.