Philippians 1:20.  According to my earnest expectation and hope.  The apostle has two things in his mind
	first, the preaching of the gospel of Christ; second, his own salvation. In reference to the former he is earnestly expectant that he shall never be put to shame by the opposition of his adversaries. This feeling makes him able to rejoice in the midst of all their envy and strife: his hope looks farther on, to his own salvation. But he enjoys both these. He awaits the future both of his work on earth and of his call to heaven without fear.
	 that in nothing shall I be put to shame.  The only way in which the apostle could be put to shame was by the frustration of his labours and hopes. He knows in his heart in what spirit he has laboured, and so feels confidence in God that his labour will not have been in vain.
	 but that with all boldness. The peculiar boldness intimated in the original is ‘freedom of speech.’ It is a favourite word for the free preaching of the first apostles (cf. Acts 4:13; Acts 4:29; Acts 14:3; Acts 18:26, etc.). Such boldness could only be the Quality of one whose work had not been frustrated, but to whom the Lord had constantly witnessed as He did to St. Paul.
	 as always. For since his conversion the apostle had never ceased to teach and preach.
	 so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body. We should naturally have expected some concluding sentence in which the apostle would speak of himself. That I shall not be put to shame, but that with all boldness I may ‘speak.’ But here St. Paul changes the form of his speech, and puts forward only that for which he constantly laboured ‘that Christ may be magnified.’ When he says ‘in my body,’ he means, by all his powers, by everything that he can do or suffer in this present life.
	 whether by life or by death. In life the preaching of Christ’s gospel would be the means to St. Paul of magnifying Christ; by his death, if it came now at the hands of the Roman power, he would be as a victim offered up to Christ. Thus he speaks himself (2 Timothy 4:6), in that later imprisonment which was followed by his martyrdom: ‘I am now ready to be offered.’
	