Purchase [περιποιουνται] . Only here, Luke 17:33, and Acts 20:28 On which see note. Purchase is unfortunate from the point of modern usage; but it is employed in its original sense of to win, acquire, without any idea of a bargain. So Bacon, Ezra 4:14 : "There is no man doth a wrong for the wrong's sake; but thereby to purchase himself profit, or pleasure, or honor, or the like." And Shakespeare : "Then, as my gift and thine own acquisition Worthily purchased, take my daughter." Temp 4 1, 14 Rend. acquire or obtain for themselves. A good degree [βαθμον καλον] . Baqmov, N. T. o. Primarily, a step. In LXX, 1 Samuel 5:5; Sir. 6 36, a threshold : 2 Kings 20:9, a degree on the dial. In ecclesiastical writers, order, grade, rank : see, for instance, Eusebius, H. E. 7 15. Also degree of relationship or affinity. Here the word apparently means a position of trust and influence in the church; possibly a promotion from the diaconate to the episcopate. Others (as De Wette, Eillicott, Pfleiderer) refer it to a high grade in the future life, which Holtzmann sarcastically describes as a ladder - round in heaven (eine Staffel im Himmel). John the Scholar, known as Climacus, a monk of the latter half of the sixth century, and Abbot of the Sinai Convent, wrote a mystical work entitled Klimax tou Paradeisou the Ladder of Paradise. The ladder, according to him, had thirty rounds. Boldness [παρρησιαν] . Primarily, free and bold speaking; speaking out every word [παν, ρημα] . Its dominant idea is boldness, confidence, as opposed to fear, ambiguity, or reserve. The idea of publicity is sometimes attached to it, but as secondary. Only here in the Pastorals : several times in Paul, as 2 Corinthians 3:12; 2 Corinthians 7:4; Philippians 1:20. The phrase pollh parrhsia much boldness is also Pauline. An assured position and blameless reputation in the church, with a pure conscience, would assure boldness of speech and of attitude in the Christian community and elsewhere. In faith. Connect with boldness only. It designates the boldness as distinctively Christian, founded on faith in Christ