Deacons. The office of Deacon appears in the Pastorals, but not in Paul 's letters, with the single exception of Philippians 1:1, where the Deacons do not represent an ecclesiastical office, though they remark an advance toward it. Clement of Rome (ad Corinth. xlii, xliv) asserts their apostolic appointment. But the evidence at our command does not bear out the view that the institution of the diaconate is described in Acts 6:1-6. The terms diakonov and diakonia are, in the Pauline writings, common expressions of servants and service either to Christ or to others. Paul applies these terms to his own ministry and to that of his associates. Diakonia is used of the service of the apostles, Acts 1:25; Acts 6:4. Diakonov is used of Paul and Apollos (1 Corinthians 3:5); of Christ (Galatians 2:17; Romans 14:8); of the civil ruler (Romans 13:4); of ministers of Satan (2 Corinthians 11:15). The appointment of the seven grew out of a special emergency, and was made for a particular service; and the resemblance is not close between the duties and qualifications of deacons in the Pastorals and those of the seven. The word diakonov does not appear in Acts; and when Paul and Barnabas brought to Jerusalem the collection for the poor saints, they handed it over to the elders. In like manner [ωσαυτως] . Rare in Paul (Romans 8:26; 1 Corinthians 11:25). Frequent in Pastorals. Grave [σεμνους] . In Paul only Philippians 4:8. See on semnothv gravity, 1 Timothy 2:2. Double - tongued [διλογους] . N. T. o. o LXX, o Class. Saying one thing and meaning another, and making different representations to different people about the same thing. Given to much wine [οινω πολλω προσεχοντας] . Seeon 1 Timothy 1:4. Total abstinence is not enjoined, even on a deacon. Comp. 1 Timothy 5:23. Greedy of filthy lucre [αισχροκερδεις] . N. T. o. o LXX The adverb aijscrokerdwv in a base, gain - greedy way, 1 Peter 5:2. From aijscrov disgraceful and kerdov gain. Comp. Hdt 1:187 : eij mh aplhstov te eav crhmatwn kai aijscrokerdhv if thou hadst not been insatiable of wealth and ready to procure it by disgraceful means. Aristoph. Peace, 622, alludes to two vices of the Spartans, ontev aijscrokerdeiv kai dieirwnoxenoi sordidly greedy of gain, and treacherous under the mask of hospitality. Similarly Eurip. Androm. 451. Comp. turpilucricupidus, Plaut. Trin. 1, 2, 63.