 23.   παραπ  .   διὰ  ] He passed by or  journeyed (so our Evangelist uses the word, see reff.)  through, &c.
	 ὁδὸν ποιεῖν τίλ  . is matter of detail and minute depiction. The interpretation of this narrative given by Meyer, which I still believe to be an entirely mistaken one, I cannot pass over so slightly as I did in my first edition. He urges the strict classical sense of ὁδὸν ποιεῖν , ‘  to make a way,’ viam munire , or  sternere , and insists on the sense conveyed by our narrative being, as distinguished from those in [9] Matt., Luke, that the disciples  made a way for themselves through the wheat field by plucking the ears of corn , further maintaining, that there is no allusion  here to their having eaten the grains of wheat, as in [10] Matt. Luke. But (1) the foundation on which all this is built is insecure. For ὁδὸν ποιεῖν in the LXX does undoubtedly mean ‘  to make one’s journey ,’ representing the Heb. עָשָׂה דֶּרֶךְ , in Judges 17:8 (examples are also quoted in the lexx. from Xenophon (the romancer)’s Ephesiaca and from Polyænus). And (2) as to no allusion being made to their having eaten the corn, how otherwise could the χρείαν ἔχειν have been common to the disciples and to David? Could it be said that any  necessity compelled them to clear the path by pulling up the overhanging stalks of corn? How otherwise could the remarkable addition in our narrative, Mark 2:27 , at all bear upon the case? Fritzsche’s rendering, ‘cœperunt viam exprimere spicas evellendo,’ which he explains, ‘to mark the way by plucking ears, and strewing them in it,’ is still worse. The classical sense of ὁδὸν ποιεῖν must evidently not be pressed: it here ὁδὸν ποιεῖσθαι .
	 [9] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [10] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .