 26.   ἐπὶ Ἀβ  .   ἀρχ  .] during the high-priesthood of Abiathar. But in 1 Samuel 21:0 , from which this account is taken,  Ahimelech, not Abiathar , is the high-priest. There is however considerable confusion in the names about this part of the history:  Ahimelech himself is called Ahiah , 1 Samuel 14:3 ; and whereas ( 1Sa 22:20 ) Ahimelech  has a son Abiathar , in 2 Samuel 8:17 , Ahimelech  is the son of Abiathar , and in 1 Chronicles 18:16 ,  Abimelech . Amidst this variation, we can hardly undertake to explain the difficulty in the text. The insertion of the art. before ἀρχ . has been apparently done to give the words the sense ‘In the time of Abiathar the High-priest,’ so that the difficulty might be avoided by understanding the event to have happened in the time of (but not necessarily during the high-priesthood of) Abiathar (who was afterwards) the High-priest. But supposing the reading to be so, what author would in an ordinary narrative think of designating an event thus? Who for instance would speak of the defeat of the Philistines at Ephesdammim, where Goliath fell, as happening ἐπὶ Δανεὶδ τοῦ βασιλέως ? Who would ever understand ἐπὶ Ἐλισσαίου τοῦ προφήτου , ‘in the time of Elisæus the prophet,’ as importing, in matter of fact, any other period than that of the  prophetic course of Elisha? (The ἐγέννησεν Δανεὶδ τὸν βασιλέα of Mat 1:6 is not a case in point.) Yet this is the way in which the difficulties of the Gospels have been attempted to be healed over. (See Middleton on the article, in loc.) With the restoration of the true reading, even this resource fails. (I am sorry to see that Bp. Wordsw. writes, “ ἐπὶ Ἀβιάθαρ ἀρχιερέως intimates indeed that it was in the days of Abiathar, but it rather suggests that he was  not the High-priest then:” comparing ἐπὶ ἀρχιερέως Ἄννα , Luke 3:2 . But surely Bp. W. must know, that such a rendering is ungrammatical: that ἀρχ ιερέως without the article must be simply predicatory, whether it precedes or follows the proper name; “when Abiathar was High-priest,” and cannot be titular. The expression in 1Ma 13:42 , which he quotes as similar, is not a case in point, as any reader may judge: ἐπὶ Σίμωνος ἀρχιερέως μεγάλου κ . στρατηγοῦ καὶ ἡγουμένου τῶν Ἰουδαίων : the epithet μεγάλου makes all the difference.)