33. As it is written— (Isaiah 8:14;
	Isaiah 28:16). 
	Behold, c.—Two
	Messianic predictions are here combined, as is not unusual in
	quotations from the Old Testament. Thus combined, the prediction
	brings together both the classes of whom the apostle is treating:
	those to whom Messiah should be only a stone of stumbling, and those
	who were to regard Him as the Cornerstone of all their hopes. Thus
	expounded, this chapter presents no serious difficulties, none which
	do not arise out of the subject itself, whose depths are unfathomable
	whereas on every other view of it the difficulty of giving it any
	consistent and worthy interpretation is in our judgment insuperable. 
	Note, (1) To speak and act
	"in Christ," with a conscience not only illuminated, but
	under the present operation of the Holy Ghost, is not peculiar to the
	supernaturally inspired, but is the privilege, and ought to be the
	aim, of every believer (Romans 9:1).
	(2) Grace does not destroy, but only intensify and elevate, the
	feelings of nature; and Christians should study to show this (Romans 9:2;
	Romans 9:3). (3) To belong to the
	visible Church of God, and enjoy its high and holy distinctions, is
	of the sovereign mercy of God, and should be regarded with devout
	thankfulness (Romans 9:4; Romans 9:5).
	(4) Yet the most sacred external distinctions and privileges will
	avail nothing to salvation without the heart's submission to the
	righteousness of God (Romans 9:5- :). (5) What manner of persons ought "God's elect"
	to be—in humility, when they remember that He hath saved
	them and called them, not according to their works, but according to
	His own purpose and grace, given them in Christ Jesus before the
	world began (2 Timothy 1:9); in
	thankfulness, for "Who maketh thee to differ, and what
	hast thou that thou didst not receive?" (2 Timothy 1:9- :); in godly jealousy over themselves; remembering that
	"God is not mocked," but "whatsoever a man soweth that
	shall he also reap" (Galatians 6:7);
	in diligence "to make our calling and election sure"
	(2 Peter 1:10); and yet in calm
	confidence that "whom God predestinates, and calls, and
	justifies, them (in due time) He also glorifies" (2 Peter 1:10- :). (6) On all subjects which from their very nature lie
	beyond human comprehension, it will be our wisdom to set down what
	God says in His word, and has actually done in His procedure towards
	men, as indisputable, even though it contradict the results at which
	in the best exercise of our limited judgment we may have arrived (2 Peter 1:10- :). (7) Sincerity in religion, or a general desire to be
	saved, with assiduous efforts to do right, will prove fatal as a
	ground of confidence before God, if unaccompanied by implicit
	submission to His revealed method of salvation (2 Peter 1:10- :). (8) In the rejection of the great mass of the chosen
	people, and the inbringing of multitudes of estranged Gentiles, God
	would have men to see a law of His procedure, which the judgment of
	the great day will more vividly reveal that "the last shall be
	first and the first last" (2 Peter 1:10- :).