20. and with him the false prophet—A
	reads, "and those with him." B reads, "and he who was
	with him, the false prophet." 
	miracles—Greek,
	"the miracles" (literally, "signs")
	recorded already (Revelation 13:14) as
	wrought by the second beast before (literally, 'in sight of')
	the first beast. Hence it follows the second beast is
	identical with the false prophet. Many expositors represent
	the first beast to be the secular, the second beast to be the
	ecclesiastical power of Rome; and account for the change of title for
	the latter from the "other beast" to the "false
	prophet," is because by the judgment on the harlot, the
	ecclesiastical power will then retain nothing of its former character
	save the power to deceive. I think it not unlikely that the false
	prophet will be the successor of the spiritual pretensions of the
	papacy; while the beast in its last form as the fully revealed
	Antichrist will be the secular representative and embodiment of the
	fourth world kingdom, Rome, in its last form of intensified
	opposition to God. Compare with this prophecy, Ezekiel 38:1-39;
	Daniel 2:34; Daniel 2:35;
	Daniel 2:44; Daniel 11:44;
	Daniel 11:45; Daniel 12:1;
	Joel 3:9-17; Zechariah 12:1-14.
	Daniel (Daniel 7:8) makes no mention
	of the second beast, or false prophet, but mentions that "the
	little horn" has "the eyes of a man," that is, cunning
	and intellectual culture; this is not a feature of the first beast in
	the thirteenth chapter, but is expressed by the Apocalyptic "false
	prophet," the embodiment of man's unsanctified knowledge, and
	the subtlety of the old serpent. The first beast is a political
	power; the second is a spiritual power—the power of ideas. But both
	are beasts, the worldly Antichristian wisdom serving the
	worldly Antichristian power. The dragon is both lion and serpent. As
	the first law in God's moral government is that "judgment should
	begin at the house of God," and be executed on the harlot, the
	faithless Church, by the world power with which she had committed
	spiritual adultery, so it is a second law that the world power, after
	having served as God's instrument of punishment, is itself punished.
	As the harlot is judged by the beast and the ten kings, so these are
	destroyed by the Lord Himself coming in person. So Daniel 7:8- : compared with Daniel 7:8- :. And Jeremiah, after denouncing Jerusalem's judgment by
	Babylon, ends with denouncing Babylon's own doom. Between the
	judgment on the harlot and the Lord's destruction of the beast, will
	intervene that season in which earthly-mindedness will reach its
	culmination, and Antichristianity triumph for its short three and a
	half days during which the two witnesses lie dead. Then shall the
	Church be ripe for her glorification, the Antichristian world for
	destruction. The world at the highest development of its material and
	spiritual power is but a decorated carcass round which the eagles
	gather. It is characteristic that Antichrist and his kings, in their
	blindness, imagine that they can wage war against the King of heaven
	with earthly hosts; herein is shown the extreme folly of Babylonian
	confusion. The Lord's mere appearance, without any actual encounter,
	shows Antichrist his nothingness; compare the effect of Jesus'
	appearance even in His humiliation, Daniel 7:8- : [AUBERLEN]. 
	had received—rather as
	Greek, "received," once for all.
them; that
	worshipped—literally, "them worshipping" not an act
	once for all done, as the "received" implies, but
	those in the habit of "worshipping." 
	These both were cast . . .
	into a lake—Greek, ". . . the lake of fire,"
	Gehenna. Satan is subsequently cast into it, at the close of the
	outbreak which succeeds the millennium (Daniel 7:8- :). Then Death and Hell, as well those not found at the
	general judgment "written in the book of life"; this
	constitutes "the second death." 
	alive—a living death;
	not mere annihilation. "Their worm dieth not, their fire is not
	quenched."