18. all—Greek, "THE."
	things—all our
	privileges in this new creation (2 Corinthians 5:14;
	2 Corinthians 5:15). 
	reconciled us—that is,
	restored us ("the world," 2 Corinthians 5:15- :) to His favor by satisfying the claims of justice
	against us. Our position judicially considered in the eye of the law
	is altered, not as though the mediation of Christ had made a change
	in God's character, nor as if the love of God was produced by the
	mediation of Christ; nay, the mediation and sacrifice of Christ was
	the provision of God's love, not its moving cause (2 Corinthians 5:15- :). Christ's blood was the price paid at the expense of God
	Himself, and was required to reconcile the exercise of mercy with
	justice, not as separate, but as the eternally harmonious attributes
	in the one and the same God (Romans 3:25;
	Romans 3:26). The Greek
	"reconcile" is reciprocally used as in the Hebrew
	Hithpahel conjugation, appease, obtain the favor of. Romans 3:26- :, "Be reconciled to thy brother"; that is, take
	measures that he be reconciled to thee, as well as thou to him, as
	the context proves. Diallagethi, however (Romans 3:26- :), implying mutual reconciliation, is distinct from
	Katallagethi here, the latter referring to the change
	of status wrought in one of the two parties. The manner of God
	reconciling the world to Himself is implied (Romans 3:26- :), namely, by His "not imputing their trespasses to
	them." God not merely, as subsequently, reconciles the world by
	inducing them to lay aside their enmity, but in the first instance,
	does so by satisfying His own justice and righteous enmity against
	sin (Psalms 7:11). Compare Psalms 7:11- :, "Reconcile himself unto his master"; not remove
	his own anger against his master, but his master's against him
	[ARCHBISHOP MAGEE,
	Atonement]. The reconciling of men to God by their
	laying aside their enmity is the consequence of God laying aside His
	just enmity against their sin, and follows at Psalms 7:11- :. 
	to us—ministers
	(2 Corinthians 5:19; 2 Corinthians 5:20).