21. For—omitted in the oldest
	manuscripts. The grand reason why they should be reconciled to God,
	namely, the great atonement in Christ provided by God, is stated
	without the "for" as being part of the message of
	reconciliation (2 Corinthians 5:19). 
	he—God. 
	sin—not a sin
	offering, which would destroy the antithesis to "righteousness,"
	and would make "sin" be used in different senses in the
	same sentence: not a sinful person, which would be untrue, and
	would require in the antithesis "righteous men," not
	"righteousness"; but "sin," that is, the
	representative Sin-bearer (vicariously) of the aggregate
	sin of all men past, present, and future. The sin of the world is
	one, therefore the singular, not the plural, is used;
	though its manifestations are manifold (2 Corinthians 5:19- :). "Behold the Lamb of God, that taketh away the SIN
	of the world." Compare "made a curse for us," 2 Corinthians 5:19- :. 
	for us—Greek,
	"in our behalf." Compare 2 Corinthians 5:19- :, Christ being represented by the brazen serpent, the
	form, but not the substance, of the old serpent. At His
	death on the cross the sin-bearing for us was consummated. 
	knew no sin—by personal
	experience (John 8:46) [ALFORD].
	Hebrews 7:26; 1 Peter 2:22;
	1 John 3:5. 
	might be made—not the
	same Greek as the previous "made." Rather, "might
	become." 
	the righteousness of God—Not
	merely righteous, but righteousness itself; not merely
	righteousness, but the righteousness of God, because Christ is
	God, and what He is we are (1 John 3:5- :), and He is "made of God unto us righteousness."
	As our sin is made over to Him, so His righteousness to us (in His
	having fulfilled all the righteousness of the law for us all, as our
	representative, Jeremiah 23:6;
	1 Corinthians 1:30). The innocent was
	punished voluntarily as if guilty, that the guilty might be
	gratuitously rewarded as if innocent (1 Corinthians 1:30- :). "Such are we in the sight of God the Father, as is
	the very Son of God himself" [HOOKER].
	in him—by virtue of our
	standing in Him, and in union with Him [ALFORD].