1. For—Assigning the reason
	for the statement (2 Corinthians 4:17),
	that affliction leads to exceeding glory.
we know—assuredly
	(2 Corinthians 4:14; Job 19:25).
	if—For all shall
	not die; many shall be "changed" without "dissolution"
	(1 Corinthians 15:51-53). If
	this daily delivering unto death (1 Corinthians 15:51-46.15.53- :) should end in actual death. 
	earthly—not the same as
	earthy (1 Corinthians 15:47). It
	stands in contrast to "in the heavens." 
	house of this
	tabernacle—rather, "house of the tabernacle." "House"
	expresses more permanency than belongs to the body; therefore
	the qualification, "of the tabernacle" (implying that it is
	shifting, not stationary), is added (compare Job 4:19;
	2 Peter 1:13; 2 Peter 1:14).
	It thus answers to the tabernacle in the wilderness. Its wooden frame
	and curtains wore out in course of time when Israel dwelt in Canaan,
	and a fixed temple was substituted for it. The temple and the
	tabernacle in all essentials were one; there was the same ark, the
	same cloud of glory. Such is the relation between the "earthly"
	body and the resurrection body. The Holy Spirit is enshrined in the
	believer's body as in a sanctuary (2 Peter 1:14- :). As the ark went first in taking down the wilderness
	tabernacle, so the soul (which like the ark is sprinkled with blood
	of atonement, and is the sacred deposit in the inmost shrine, 2 Peter 1:14- :) in the dissolution of the body; next the coverings were
	removed, answering to the flesh; lastly, the framework and boards,
	answering to the bones, which are last to give way (2 Peter 1:14- :). Paul, as a tent-maker, uses an image taken from
	his trade (Acts 18:3). 
	dissolved—a mild word
	for death, in the case of believers. 
	we have—in assured
	prospect of possession, as certain as if it were in our hands, laid
	up "in the heavens" for us. The tense is present
	(compare John 3:36; John 6:47,
	"hath"). 
	a building of God—rather
	"from God." A solid building, not a temporary
	tabernacle or tent. "Our" body stands
	in contrast to "from God." For though our present
	body be also from God, yet it is not fresh and perfect from
	His hands, as our resurrection body shall be. 
	not made with
	hands—contrasted with houses erected by man's hands (John 6:47- :). So Christ's body is designated, as contrasted with the
	tabernacle reared by Moses (Mark 14:58;
	Hebrews 9:11). This "house"
	can only be the resurrection body, in contrast to the "earthly
	house of the tabernacle," our present body. The intermediate
	state is not directly taken into account. A comma should
	separate "eternal," and "in the heavens."