Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ - If the view taken in the Introduction to the Epistle is correct, Jude sustained a near relation to the Lord Jesus, being, as James was, “the Lord’s brother,” Galatians 1:19. The reasons why he did not advert to this fact here, as an appellation which would serve to designate him, and as showing his authority to address others in the manner in which he proposed to do in this Epistle, probably were, (1)That the right to do this did not rest on his mere “relationship” to the Lord Jesus, but on the fact that he had called certain persons to be his apostles, and had authorized them to do it; and, (2)That a reference to this relationship, as a ground of authority, might have created jealousies among the apostles themselves. We may learn from the fact that Jude merely calls himself “the servant of the Lord Jesus,” that is, a Christian, (a)That this is a distinction more to be desired than, would be a mere natural relationship to the Saviour, and consequently. (b)That it is a higher honor than any distinction arising from birth or family. Compare Matthew 12:46-50.And brother of James - See the introduction, Section 1.To them that are sanctified by God the Father - To those who are “holy,” or who are “saints.” Compare the Romans 1:7 note; Philippians 1:1 note. Though this title is general, it can hardly be doubted that he had some particular saints in his view, to wit, those who were exposed to the dangers to which he refers in the Epistle. See Introduction, Section 3. As the Epistle was probably “sent” to Christians residing in a certain place, it was not necessary to designate them more particularly, though it was often done. The Syriac version adds here: “To the Gentiles who are called, beloved of God the Father,” etc.And preserved in Jesus Christ - See the notes, 1 Peter 1:5. The meaning is, that they owed their preservation wholly to him; and if they were brought to everlasting life, it would be only by him. What the apostle here says of those to whom he wrote, is true of all Christians. They would all fall away and perish if it were not for the grace of God keeping them.And called - Called to be saints. See Romans 1:7 note; Ephesians 4:1 note.