1. But—in contrast to the
	prophets "moved by the Holy Ghost" ( :-). 
	also—as well as the
	true prophets ( :-). Paul had already testified the entrance of false
	prophets into the same churches. 
	among the people—Israel:
	he is writing to believing Israelites primarily (see on  :-). Such a "false prophet" was Balaam ( :-). 
	there shall be—Already
	symptoms of the evil were appearing (2 Peter 2:9-22;
	Judges 1:4-13). 
	false teachers—teachers
	of falsehood. In contrast to the true teachers, whom he exhorts his
	readers to give heed to (2 Peter 3:2).
	who—such as
	(literally, "the which") shall. 
	privily—not at first
	openly and directly, but by the way, bringing in error by
	the side of the true doctrine (so the Greek): Rome
	objects, Protestants cannot point out the exact date of the
	beginnings of the false doctrines superadded to the original truth;
	we answer, Peter foretells us it would be so, that the first
	introduction of them would be stealthy and unobserved (2 Peter 3:2- :). 
	damnable—literally, "of
	destruction"; entailing destruction (2 Peter 3:2- :) on all who follow them. 
	heresies—self-chosen
	doctrines, not emanating from God (compare "will-worship,"
	Colossians 2:23). 
	even—going even
	to such a length as to deny both in teaching and practice.
	Peter knew, by bitter repentance, what a fearful thing it is
	to deny the Lord (Luke 22:61;
	Luke 22:62). 
	denying—Him whom, above
	all others, they ought to confess.
Lord—"Master and
	Owner" (Greek), compare Luke 22:62- :, Greek. Whom the true doctrine teaches to be their OWNER
	by right of purchase. Literally, "denying Him who bought
	them (that He should be thereby), their Master." 
	bought them—Even the
	ungodly were bought by His "precious blood." It shall be
	their bitterest self-reproach in hell, that, as far as Christ's
	redemption was concerned, they might have been saved. The denial of
	His propitiatory sacrifice is included in the meaning (compare
	1 John 4:3). 
	bring upon themselves—compare
	"God bringing in the flood upon the world,"
	2 Peter 2:5. Man brings upon himself
	the vengeance which God brings upon him. 
	swift—swiftly
	descending: as the Lord's coming shall be swift and sudden. As the
	ground swallowed up Korah and Dathan, and "they went down quick
	into the pit." Compare Judges 1:11,
	which is akin to this passage.