Revelation 5:5.  And one from among the elders saith unto me, Weep not, behold the Lion, which is of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, overcame, to open the roll and the seven seals thereof.  The words are spoken by one of the twenty-four elders, and the propriety of this is obvious. These Elders represent the triumphant Church, which knows by happy experience the blessedness of her victory. Who so fit to magnify the glories of the Lamb? A twofold description is then given of Him of whom ‘Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write’ (John 1:45), the one part taken from the law, the other from the prophets. (1) He is ‘the lion of the tribe of Judah.’ The words are from the law (Genesis 49:9), where we have the promise of the Messiah as the culminating point of the history of the leading and famous tribe of Judah. Many passages of the Old Testament at the same time remind us that the lion is the emblem not of courage only, but of fierce and destroying power (Job 10:16; Psalms 7:2, etc.). (2) He is ‘the root of David.’ The words are now taken from the prophets (Isaiah 11:1), and they mark Jesus out (comp. also chap. Revelation 22:16) not as the root out of which David springs, but as the sucker which, springing from David as a root, grows up to be a stately tree. In Him the conquering might of David the ‘man of war,’ as well as of Judah ‘chosen to be the ruler’ (1 Chronicles 28:4), comes forth with all the freshness of a new youth. Compare for the witness thus given to our Lord, Matthew 17:3, with the parallel texts.
	This Lion ‘overcame;’ for Revelation 5:9, where the ground of the Lamb’s worthiness to open the roll is again celebrated, takes us clearly to the past, and to a work then finished. The verb is therefore to be understood absolutely (as so often in the seven Epistles to the churches), and not to be connected only with the words ‘  to  open,’ as if the meaning were simply that the Lamb had overcome all obstacles in the way of opening the roll. Much more is said. He ‘overcame.’ He is the Archetype and Forerunner of all them that ‘overcome.’ He conquered sin, death, the devil all the foes of God and man. He accomplished in His life, death, and resurrection, a complete and everlasting victory (comp. Revelation 3:21). Therefore, having gained such a victory, He is worthy to open the book which records its issues. No sooner has the Seer been told this than the words are fulfilled in vision.
	