Revelation 5:6. The words are fulfilled; yet how differently from what might have been expected! The Seer had been told of a lion, and he beholds a  lamb;  and Revelation 5:9 makes it evident that the lamb is thought of not merely in its gentleness and patience, but as an animal used for sacrifice. From the same verse also it would seem that it is the Paschal lamb that is present to the view of the apocalyptic writer. The particular word used in the original for ‘lamb’ is found in the New Testament, with the exception of the Apocalypse, only in John 21:15; and an argument has been often drawn, from the employment of a different word in John 1:29; John 1:36, against the identification of the apocalyptic figure with the figure of the Gospel. It is enough to reply that in John 1:29; John 1:36, the Evangelist is simply recording words of the Baptist. That he himself preferred the other term arises probably from the fact that he had often heard it, and not at John 21:15 alone, from the lips of the Master whom he loved. It is used by him twenty-nine times in this book.
	The question of the position of the Lamb is both interesting and   difficult. It is generally supposed to have stood  between  the throne, of which the four living creatures may almost be said to form a   part, and the twenty-four Elders; thus representing a Mediator between God and man. Some place it in the very centre of the throne. The former idea is the more probable, and it finds a certain amount of confirmation in the word ‘came’ of Revelation 5:7. We have thus the throne with the four living creatures above (see on chap. Revelation 4:6), then the Lamb, then the twenty-four Elders. The position now assigned to the Lamb is made the more probable by the fact that it was a  Lamb standing.  On a   throne one sits.
	The ‘standing’ of the Lamb is deeply important. First of all we may observe that it is as  slaughtered  (not ‘slain,’ but ‘slaughtered’) for sacrifice, the word being sacrificial (Exodus 12:6), that the Lamb appears. Jesus suffering even unto death is before us. But though thus ‘slaughtered’ the Lamb ‘stands,’ stands as a   living, not lies as a dead, animal. Jesus risen and glorified is presented to our view. In short, we have here the great lesson alike of the Apocalypse and of the Fourth Gospel, that we are redeemed not merely by a Saviour who died, but by one who also   rose to everlasting and glorious life. Through all eternity, too, the Risen Lord bears the marks of His earthly sufferings. While His people live for ever in His life, they never cease to feel that they were redeemed in His blood. The Lamb has still further  seven horns.  In Scripture the horn is always the emblem of strength and force ( Deu 33:17 ; 1 Samuel 2:10; Psalms 112:9; Psalms 148:14; Luke 1:69; Revelation 17:3); the number ‘seven’ denotes, as usual, completeness.
	It has also  seven eyes,  which are explained to  be the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.  They are thus substantially the same as the ‘seven torches’ of chap. Revelation 4:5, and we need say no more of them at present than that they are distinctly connected with the Son as well as   with the Father. The word ‘sent’ belongs to the eyes alone, and not also to the horns.
	