6. because ye are sons—The
	gift of the Spirit of prayer is the consequence of our adoption. The
	Gentile Galatians might think, as the Jews were under the law before
	their adoption, that so they, too, must first be under the law. Paul,
	by anticipation, meets this objection by saying, YE
	ARE sons, therefore ye need not be as children ( :-) under the tutorship of the law, as being already in the free
	state of "sons" of God by faith in Christ ( :-), no longer in your nonage (as "children,"  :-). The Spirit of God's only Begotten Son in your hearts, sent
	from, and leading you to cry to, the Father, attests your sonship by
	adoption: for the Spirit is the "earnest of your inheritance"
	(Romans 8:15; Romans 8:16;
	Ephesians 1:13). "It is because ye
	are sons that God sent forth" (the Greek requires this
	translation, not "hath sent forth") into OUR
	(so the oldest manuscripts read for "your," in English
	Version) hearts the Spirit of His son, crying, "Abba,
	Father" (John 1:12). As in
	Galatians 4:5 he changed from "them,"
	the third person, to "we," the first person, so here he
	changes from "ye," the second person, to "our,"
	the first person: this he does to identify their case as Gentiles,
	with his own and that of his believing fellow countrymen, as Jews. In
	another point of view, though not the immediate one intended by the
	context, this verse expresses, "Because ye are sons
	(already in God's electing purpose of love), God sent forth the
	Spirit of His Son into your hearts," c.: God thus, by sending
	His Spirit in due time, actually conferring that sonship which He
	already regarded as a present reality ("are") because of
	His purpose, even before it was actually fulfilled. So Galatians 4:5- :, where "the children" are spoken of as existing in
	His purpose, before their actual existence. 
	the Spirit of his Son—By
	faith ye are one with the Son, so that what is His is yours His
	Sonship ensures your sonship; His Spirit ensures for you a share in
	the same. "If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none
	of His" (Romans 8:9). Moreover,
	as the Spirit of God proceeds from God the Father, so the Spirit of
	the Son proceeds from the Son: so that the Holy Ghost, as the Creed
	says, "proceedeth from the Father and the Son." The Father
	was not begotten: the Son is begotten of the Father;
	the Holy Ghost proceeding from the Father and the Son. 
	crying—Here the SPIRIT
	is regarded as the agent in praying, and the believer as His
	organ. In Romans 8:15, "The
	Spirit of adoption" is said to be that whereby WE
	cry, "Abba, Father"; but in Romans 8:15- :, "The SPIRIT ITSELF
	maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered."
	The believers' prayer is His prayer: hence arises its acceptability
	with God. 
	Abba, Father—The Hebrew
	says, "Abba" (a Hebrew term), the Greek,
	"Father" ("Pater," a Greek term in
	the original), both united together in one Sonship and one cry of
	faith, "Abba, Father." So "Even so ('Nai,'
	Greek) Amen (Hebrew)," both meaning the same (Romans 8:15- :). Christ's own former cry is the believers' cry, "Abba,
	Father" (Mark 14:36).