4. the fulness of the time—namely,
	"the time appointed by the Father" ( :-). Compare Note, see on  :-; Luke 1:57; Acts 2:1;
	Ezekiel 5:2. "The Church has its
	own ages" [BENGEL].
	God does nothing prematurely, but, foreseeing the end from the
	beginning, waits till all is ripe for the execution of His purpose.
	Had Christ come directly after the fall, the enormity and deadly
	fruits of sin would not have been realized fully by man, so as to
	feel his desperate state and need of a Saviour. Sin was fully
	developed. Man's inability to save himself by obedience to the law,
	whether that of Moses, or that of conscience, was completely
	manifested; all the prophecies of various ages found their common
	center in this particular time: and Providence, by various
	arrangements in the social and political, as well as the moral world,
	had fully prepared the way for the coming Redeemer. God often permits
	physical evil long before he teaches the remedy. The smallpox had for
	long committed its ravages before inoculation, and then vaccination,
	was discovered. It was essential to the honor of God's law to permit
	evil long before He revealed the full remedy. Compare "the set
	time" (Psalms 102:13). 
	was come—Greek,
	"came." 
	sent forth—Greek,
	"sent forth out of heaven from Himself"
	[ALFORD and BENGEL].
	The same verb is used of the Father's sending forth the Spirit (Psalms 102:13- :). So in Acts 7:12.
	Compare with this verse, John 8:42;
	Isaiah 48:16. 
	his—emphatical. "His
	own Son." Not by adoption, as we are (Isaiah 48:16- :): nor merely His Son by the anointing of the Spirit which God
	sends into the heart (Galatians 4:6;
	John 1:18). 
	made of a woman—"made"
	is used as in 1 Corinthians 15:45, "The
	first man, Adam, was made a living soul," Greek,
	"made to be (born) of a woman." The expression
	implies a special interposition of God in His birth as man, namely,
	causing Him to be conceived by the Holy Ghost. So ESTIUS.
	made under the law—"made
	to be under the law." Not merely as GROTIUS
	and ALFORD explain, "Born
	subject to the law as a Jew." But "made" by His
	Father's appointment, and His own free will, "subject to the
	law," to keep it all, ceremonial and moral, perfectly for us, as
	the Representative Man, and to suffer and exhaust the full penalty of
	our whole race's violation of it. This constitutes the significance
	of His circumcision, His being presented in the temple (Luke 2:21;
	Luke 2:22; Luke 2:27;
	compare Matthew 5:17), and His
	baptism by John, when He said (Matthew 5:17- :), "Thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness."