16. All scripture—Greek,
	"Every Scripture," that is, Scripture in its every part.
	However, English Version is sustained, though the Greek
	article be wanting, by the technical use of the term "Scripture"
	being so well known as not to need the article (compare Greek,
Ephesians 3:15; Ephesians 2:21).
	The Greek is never used of writings in general, but
	only of the sacred Scriptures. The position of the two Greek
	adjectives closely united by "and," forbids our taking the
	one as an epithet, the other as predicated and translated as ALFORD
	and ELLICOTT. "Every
	Scripture given by inspiration of God is also profitable."
	Vulgate and the best manuscripts, favor English Version.
	Clearly the adjectives are so closely connected that as surely as one
	is a predicate, the other must be so too. ALFORD
	admits his translation to be harsh, though legitimate. It is better
	with English Version to take it in a construction legitimate,
	and at the same time not harsh. The Greek,
	"God-inspired," is found nowhere else. Most of the New
	Testament books were written when Paul wrote this his latest Epistle:
	so he includes in the clause "All Scripture is God-inspired,"
	not only the Old Testament, in which alone Timothy was taught
	when a child (2 Timothy 3:15), but
	the New Testament books according as they were recognized in the
	churches which had men gifted with "discerning of spirits,"
	and so able to distinguish really inspired utterances, persons, and
	so their writings from spurious. Paul means, "All Scripture is
	God-inspired and therefore useful"; because we see
	no utility in any words or portion of it, it does not follow it is
	not God-inspired. It is useful, because God-inspired;
	not God-inspired, because useful. One reason for the article
	not being before the Greek, "Scripture," may be
	that, if it had, it might be supposed that it limited the
	sense to the hiera grammata, "Holy Scriptures" (2 Timothy 3:15- :) of the Old Testament, whereas here the assertion is
	more general: "all Scripture" (compare Greek,
2 Peter 1:20). The translation,
	"all Scripture that is God-inspired is also useful," would
	imply that there is some Scripture which is not God-inspired.
	But this would exclude the appropriated sense of the word
	"Scripture"; and who would need to be told that "all
	divine Scripture is useful ('profitable')?" 2 Peter 1:20- : would, in ALFORD'S
	view, have to be rendered, "All naked things are also
	open to the eyes of Him," c.: so also 2 Peter 1:20- :, which would be absurd [TREGELLES,
	Remarks on the Prophetic Visions of the Book of Daniel]. Knapp
	well defines inspiration, "An extraordinary divine agency upon
	teachers while giving instruction, whether oral or written, by which
	they were taught how and what they should speak or write"
	(compare 2 Samuel 23:1 Acts 4:25;
	2 Peter 1:21). The inspiration
	gives the divine sanction to all the words of Scripture,
	though those words be the utterances of the individual writer, and
	only in special cases revealed directly by God (2 Peter 1:21- :). Inspiration is here predicated of the writings,
	"all Scripture," not of the persons. The question is not
	how God has done it; it is as to the word, not the men
	who wrote it. What we must believe is that He has done it, and
	that all the sacred writings are every where inspired, though not all
	alike matter of special revelation: and that even the very
	words are stamped with divine sanction, as Jesus used them
	(for example in the temptation and John 10:34;
	John 10:35), for deciding all
	questions of doctrine and practice. There are degrees of revelation
	in Scripture, but not of inspiration. The sacred writers did
	not even always know the full significancy of their own God-inspired
	words (1 Peter 1:10; 1 Peter 1:11;
	1 Peter 1:12). Verbal inspiration
	does not mean mechanical dictation, but all "Scripture is (so)
	inspired by God," that everything in it, its narratives,
	prophecies, citations, the whole—ideas, phrases, and words—are
	such as He saw fit to be there. The present condition of the
	text is no ground for concluding against the original text
	being inspired, but is a reason why we should use all critical
	diligence to restore the original inspired text. Again, inspiration
	may be accompanied by revelation or not, but it is as much needed for
	writing known doctrines or facts authoritatively, as for
	communicating new truths [TREGELLES].
	The omission here of the substantive verb is,' I think, designed to
	mark that, not only the Scripture then existing, but what was
	still to be written till the canon should be completed, is
	included as God-inspired. The Old Testament law was the
	schoolmaster to bring us to Christ; so it is appropriately said to be
	"able to make wise unto salvation through faith in Jesus
	Christ": the term wisdom being appropriated to a
	knowledge of the relations between the Old and New Testaments, and
	opposed to the pretended wisdom of the false teachers (1 Timothy 1:7;
	1 Timothy 1:8). 
	doctrine—Greek,
	"teaching," that is, teaching the ignorant dogmatic
	truths which they cannot otherwise know. He so uses the Old
	Testament, Romans 1:17. 
	reproof—"refutation,"
	convicting the erring of their error. Including polemical
	divinity. As an example of this use of the Old Testament, compare
	Galatians 3:6; Galatians 3:13;
	Galatians 3:16. "Doctrine and
	reproof" comprehend the speculative parts of divinity.
	Next follow the practical: Scripture is profitable for: (1)
	correction (Greek, "setting one right";
	compare an example, Galatians 3:16- :) and instruction (Greek, "disciplining,"
	as a father does his child, see on Galatians 3:16- :; Ephesians 6:4; Hebrews 12:5;
	Hebrews 12:11, or "training"
	by instruction, warning, example, kindnesses, promises, and
	chastisements; compare an example, Hebrews 12:11- :). Thus the whole science of theology is complete in
	Scripture. Since Paul is speaking of Scripture in general and in the
	notion of it, the only general reason why, in order to
	perfecting the godly (Hebrews 12:11- :), it should extend to every department of revealed
	truth, must be that it was intended to be the complete and
	sufficient rule in all things touching perfection. See Article
	VI, Common Prayer Book.
in—Greek,
	"instruction which is in righteousness," as
	contrasted with the "instruction" in worldly rudiments
	(Colossians 2:20; Colossians 2:22).