10. fully known—literally,
	"fully followed up" and traced; namely, with a view to
	following me as thy pattern, so far as I follow Christ; the same
	Greek as in Luke 1:3,
	"having had perfect understanding of all things."
	His pious mother Eunice and grandmother Lois would recommend him to
	study fully Paul's Christian course as a pattern. He had not
	been yet the companion of Paul at the time of the apostle's
	persecutions in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra (Acts 13:50;
	Acts 14:5; Acts 14:19),
	but is first mentioned as such Acts 14:19- :. However, he was "a disciple" already, when
	introduced to us in Acts 14:19- :; and as Paul calls him "my own son in the faith,"
	he must have been converted by the apostle previously; perhaps in the
	visit to those parts three years before. Hence arose Timothy's
	knowledge of Paul's persecutions, which were the common talk of the
	churches in those regions about the time of his conversion. The
	incidental allusion to them here forms an undesigned
	coincidence between the history and the Epistle, indicating
	genuineness [PALEY, Horæ
	Paulinæ]. A forger of Epistles from the Acts would never allude
	to Timothy's knowledge of persecutions, when that knowledge is
	not expressly mentioned in the history, but is only arrived at by
	indirect inference; also the omission of Derbe here, in the
	Epistle, is in minute accordance with the fact that in Derbe no
	persecution is mentioned in the history, though Derbe and
	Lystra are commonly mentioned together. The reason why he
	mentions his persecutions before Timothy became his companion, and
	not those subsequent, was because Timothy was familiar with the
	latter as an eye-witness and Paul needed not to remind him of them,
	but the former Timothy had traced up by seeking the
	information from others, especially as the date and scene of them was
	the date and scene of his own conversion. 
	doctrine—"teaching."
	manner of life—"conduct,"
	"behavior." 
	purpose—The Greek
	is elsewhere usually used of God's "purpose." But
	here, as in Acts 11:23, of
	Paul's determined "purpose of heart in cleaving unto the Lord."
	My set aim, or resolution, in my apostolic function,
	and in every action is, not my selfish gain, but the glory of God in
	Christ. 
	long-suffering—towards
	my adversaries, and the false teachers; towards brethren in bearing
	their infirmities; towards the unconverted, and the lapsed when
	penitent (2 Timothy 4:2; 2 Corinthians 6:6;
	Galatians 5:22; Ephesians 4:2;
	Colossians 3:12). 
	charity—love to
	all men. 
	patience—"endurance";
	patient continuance in well-doing amidst adversities (2 Timothy 3:11;
	Romans 2:7).