2. Beloved—by the Father, and
	therefore by me. 
	now—in contrast to "not
	yet." We now already are really sons, though not
	recognized as such by the world, and (as the consequence) we look for
	the visible manifestation of our sonship, which not yet has
	taken place. 
	doth not yet appear—Greek,
	"it hath not yet ('at any time,' Greek aorist) been
	visibly manifested what we shall be"—what further glory we
	shall attain by virtue of this our sonship. The "what"
	suggests a something inconceivably glorious. 
	but—omitted in the
	oldest manuscripts. Its insertion in English Version gives a
	wrong antithesis. It is not, "We do not yet know manifestly
	what . . . but we know," c. Believers have some degree of
	the manifestation already, though the world has not. The
	connection is, The manifestation to the world of what we shall
	be, has not yet taken place we know (in general; as a matter
	of well-assured knowledge; so the Greek) that when
	(literally, "if"; expressing no doubt as to the fact, but
	only as to the time; also implying the coming preliminary fact, on
	which the consequence follows, Malachi 1:6;
	John 14:3) He (not "it,"
	namely, that which is not yet manifested [ALFORD])
	shall be manifested (1 John 3:5;
	1 John 2:28), we shall be like Him
	(Christ; all sons have a substantial resemblance to their father, and
	Christ, whom we shall be like, is "the express image of the
	Father's person," so that in resembling Christ, we shall
	resemble the Father). We wait for the manifestation
	(literally, the "apocalypse"; the same term as is applied
	to Christ's own manifestation) of the sons of God. After our
	natural birth, the new birth into the life of grace is needed, which
	is to be followed by the new birth into the life of glory; the two
	latter alike are termed "the regeneration" (1 John 2:28- :). The resurrection of our bodies is a kind of coming out of
	the womb of the earth, and being born into another life. Our first
	temptation was that we should be like God in knowledge, and by that
	we fell; but being raised by Christ, we become truly like Him, by
	knowing Him as we are known, and by seeing Him as He is [PEARSON,
	Exposition of the Creed]. As the first immortality which Adam
	lost was to be able not to die, so the last shall be not to be able
	to die. As man's first free choice or will was to be able not to sin,
	so our last shall be not to be able to sin [AUGUSTINE,
	The City of God, 22.30]. The devil fell by aspiring to God's
	power; man, by aspiring to his knowledge; but aspiring
	after God's goodness, we shall ever grow in His likeness. The
	transition from God the Father to "He," "Him,"
	referring to Christ (who alone is ever said in Scripture to be
	manifested; not the Father, 1 John 2:28- :), implies the entire unity of the Father and the Son. 
	for, c.—Continual
	beholding generates likeness (1 John 2:28- :) as the face of the moon being always turned towards the
	sun, reflects its light and glory. 
	see him—not in His
	innermost Godhead, but as manifested in Christ. None but the pure can
	see the infinitely Pure One. In all these passages the Greek
	is the same verb opsomai; not denoting the action of seeing,
	but the state of him to whose eye or mind the object is presented;
	hence the Greek verb is always in the middle or reflexive
	voice, to perceive and inwardly appreciate [TITTMANN].
	Our spiritual bodies will appreciate and recognize spiritual beings
	hereafter, as our natural bodies now do natural objects.