9. Whosoever is born of
	God—literally, "Everyone that is begotten of God." 
	doth not commit sin—His
	higher nature, as one born or begotten of God, doth not sin. To be
	begotten of God and to sin, are states mutually excluding
	one another. In so far as one sins, he makes it doubtful whether he
	be born of God.
his seed—the living
	word of God, made by the Holy Spirit the seed in us of a new life and
	the continual mean of sanctification. 
	remaineth—abideth in
	him (compare Note, see on  :-; John 5:38). This does
	not contradict 1 John 1:8; 1 John 1:9;
	the regenerate show the utter incompatibility of sin with
	regeneration, by cleansing away every sin into which they may
	be betrayed by the old nature, at once in the blood of Christ. 
	cannot sin, because he is
	born of God—"because it is of God that he is
	born" (so the Greek order, as compared with the order
	of the same words in the beginning of the verse); not "because
	he was born of God" (the Greek is perfect tense,
	which is present in meaning, not aorist); it is not said,
	Because a man was once for all born of God he never afterwards can
	sin; but, Because he is born of God, the seed abiding now in Him, he
	cannot sin; so long as it energetically abides, sin can have no
	place. Compare Genesis 39:9, Joseph,
	"How CAN I do this
	great wickedness and sin against God?" The principle within me
	is at utter variance with it. The regenerate life is incompatible
	with sin, and gives the believer a hatred for sin in every shape, and
	an unceasing desire to resist it. "The child of God in this
	conflict receives indeed wounds daily, but never throws away his arms
	or makes peace with his deadly foe" [LUTHER].
	The exceptional sins into which the regenerate are surprised, are
	owing to the new life principle being for a time suffered to lie
	dormant, and to the sword of the Spirit not being drawn instantly.
	Sin is ever active, but no longer reigns. The normal direction
	of the believer's energies is against sin; the law of God after the
	inward man is the ruling principle of his true self though the
	old nature, not yet fully deadened, rebels and sins. Contrast
	1 John 5:18; John 8:34;
	compare Psalms 18:22; Psalms 18:23;
	Psalms 32:2; Psalms 32:3;
	Psalms 119:113; Psalms 119:176.
	The magnetic needle, the nature of which is always to point to the
	pole, is easily turned aside, but always reseeks the pole.