Spoken by Jeremy the prophet - The words quoted here are not to be found in the prophecy of Jeremiah. Words similar to these are recorded in Zechariah 11:12-13, and from that place this quotation has been doubtless made. Much difficulty has been experienced in explaining this quotation. In ancient times, according to the Jewish writers; “Jeremiah” was reckoned the first of the prophets, and was placed first in the “Book of the Prophets,” thus: Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Isaiah, and the twelve minor prophets. Some have thought that Matthew, quoting this place, quoted the Book of the Prophets under the name of that which had the “first” place in the book, that is, Jeremiah; and though the words are those of Zechariah, yet they are quoted correctly as the words of the Book of the Prophets, the first of which was Jeremiah. Others have thought that there was a mistake made by ancient transcribers, writing the name Jeremiah instead of Zechariah; and it is observed that this might be done by the change of only a single letter. It was often the custom to abridge words in writing them. Thus, instead of writing the name of Jeremiah in full, it would be written in Greek, “Iriou.” So Zechariah would be written “Zion.” By the mere change of Zinto I, therefore, the mistake might easily be made. Probably this is the correct explanation. Others have supposed that the words were “spoken by Jeremiah,” and that “Zechariah” recorded them, and that Matthew quoted them as they were - the words of Jeremiah. The passage is not quoted literally; and by its being “fulfilled” is meant, probably, that the language used by Zechariah on a similar occasion would express also this event. See the notes at Matthew 1:22-23. It was language appropriate to this occasion.The price of him that was valued - That is, the price of him on whom a value was set. The word rendered “valued,” here, does not, as often in our language, mean to “esteem,” but to “estimate;” not to love, approve, or regard, but to fix a price on, to estimate the value of. This they considered to be thirty pieces of silver, “the common price of a slave.”They of the children of Israel did value - Some of the Jews, the leaders or priests, acting in the name of the nation.Did value - Did estimate, or fix a price on.