2. Translate, "I know,"
	not "I knew." 
	a man—meaning himself.
	But he purposely thus distinguishes between the rapt and glorified
	person of 2 Corinthians 12:2; 2 Corinthians 12:4,
	and himself the infirmity-laden victim of the "thorn in
	the flesh" (2 Corinthians 12:7).
	Such glory belonged not to him, but the weakness did.
	Nay, he did not even know whether he was in or out of the body when
	the glory was put upon him, so far was the glory from being his
	[ALFORD]. His spiritual
	self was his highest and truest self: the flesh with its infirmity
	merely his temporary self (2 Corinthians 12:7- :). Here, however, the latter is the prominent thought. 
	in Christ—a Christian
	(Romans 16:7). 
	above—rather, simply
	"fourteen years ago." This Epistle was written A.D.
	55-57. Fourteen years before will bring the vision to A.D.
	41-43, the time of his second visit to Jerusalem (Romans 16:7- :). He had long been intimate with the Corinthians, yet had
	never mentioned this revelation before: it was not a matter lightly
	to be spoken of. 
	I cannot tell—rather as
	Greek, "I know not." If in the body, he must
	have been caught up bodily; if out of the body, as seems to be
	Paul's opinion, his spirit must have been caught up out of the
	body. At all events he recognizes the possibility of conscious
	receptivity in disembodied spirits. 
	caught up— (Romans 16:7- :). 
	to the third heaven—even
	to, c. These raptures (note the plural, "visions,"
	"revelations," 2 Corinthians 12:1)
	had two degrees: first he was caught up "to the third
	heaven," and from thence to "Paradise" (2 Corinthians 12:1- :) [CLEMENT OF
	ALEXANDRIA, Miscellanies,
	5.427], which seems to denote an inner recess of the third heaven
	[BENGEL] (Luke 23:43
Revelation 2:7). Paul was permitted not
	only to "hear" the things of Paradise, but to see also in
	some degree the things of the third heaven (compare "visions,"
	2 Corinthians 12:1). The occurrence TWICE
	of "whether in the body . . . I know not, God knoweth," and
	of "lest I should be exalted above measure," marks two
	stages in the revelation. "Ignorance of the mode does not
	set aside the certain knowledge of the fact. The apostles were
	ignorant of many things" [BENGEL].
	The first heaven is that of the clouds, the air; the second,
	that of the stars, the sky; the third is spiritual (2 Corinthians 12:1- :).