Foolish [ανοητοι] . See on Luke 24:25. In N. T. and LXX always in an active sense. See Luke 24:25; Romans 1:14; 1 Timothy 6:9; Titus 3:3. Nouv is used by Paul mainly with an ethical reference, as the faculty of moral judgment. See on Romans 7:23. 'Anohtov therefore indicates a folly which is the outgrowth of a moral defect. Paul is not alluding to a national characteristic of the Galatians. 56 Hath bewitched [εβασκανεν] . N. T. o. In Class. with accusative, to slander, malign; with dative, to envy, grudge, use ill words to another, bewitch by spells. 57 Gor the verb in LXX, see Deuteronomy 28:54, Deuteronomy 28:56; Sir. 14 6, 8. The noun baskania (not in N. T.) in LXX, Wisd. 4 12 (the bewitching); 4 Macc. 1 26 (the evil eye); 4 Macc. 2 15 (slander). See also Plato, Phaedo, 95 B (evil eye). The adjective baskanov (not in N. T.) appears in LXX, Proverbs 23:6; Proverbs 28:22 (having an evil eye); Sir 14 3; 18 18; 37 11 (envious). See also Aristoph. Knights, 103; Plut. 571 (slanderous, a calumniator). Ignatius (Romans 3:0) uses it of grudging the triumph of martyrdom. The two ideas of envy or malice and the evil eye combine in the Lat. invidere, to look maliciously. The ojfqalmov evil eye is found Mark 7:22. Paul 's metaphor here is : who hath cast an evil spell upon you? Chrysostom, followed by Lightfoot, thinks that the passage indicates, not only the baleful influence on the Galatians, but also the envious spirit of the false teachers who envy them their liberty in Christ. This is doubtful. Before whose eyes [οις κατ οφθαλμους] . The Greek is stronger : unto whom, over against your very eyes. The phrase kat' ojfqalmouv N. T. o, but quite frequent in LXX Comp. kata proswpon to the face, Galatians 2:11. Hath been evidently set forth [προεγραφη] . The different explanations turn on the meaning assigned to pro : either formerly, or openly, publicly. Thus openly portrayed. The use of prografein in this sense is more than doubtful. Previously written. In favor of this is the plain meaning in two of the three other N. T.. passages where it occurs : Romans 14:4; Ephesians 3:3. Was posted up, placarded. It is the usual word to describe public notices or proclamations. 58 The more probable sense combines the first and third interpretations. Rend. openly set forth. This suits before whose eyes, and illustrates the suggestion of the evil eye in bewitched. Who could have succeeded in bringing you under the spell of an evil eye, when directly before your own eyes stood revealed the crucified Christ ? Crucified among you [εν υμιν εσταυρωμενος] . En uJmin among you is omitted in the best texts. Crucified emphatically closes the sentence. Christ was openly set forth as crucified.