28. Take heed . . . unto
	yourselves—Compare 1 Timothy 3:2-7;
	1 Timothy 4:16; 1 Timothy 6:11.
	and to all the flock—Compare
	Hebrews 13:17. Observe here how
	the personal is put before the pastoral care. 
	over . . . which the Holy
	Ghost hath made you—Compare John 20:22;
	John 20:23; Ephesians 4:8;
	Ephesians 4:11; Ephesians 4:12;
	Revelation 3:1. (Revelation 3:1- : shows that the apostle did not mean to exclude human
	ordination). 
	overseers—or, as the
	same word is everywhere else rendered in our version,
	"bishops." The English Version has hardly dealt fair
	in this case with the sacred text, in rendering the word "overseers,"
	whereas it ought here, as in all other places, to have been
	"bishops," in order that the fact of elders and bishops
	having been originally and apostolically synonymous, might be
	apparent to the ordinary English reader, which now it is not
	[ALFORD]. The distinction
	between these offices cannot be certainly traced till the second
	century, nor was it established till late in that century. 
	to feed the church of God—or,
	"the Church of the Lord." Which of these two readings of
	the text is the true one, is a question which has divided the best
	critics. The evidence of manuscripts preponderates in favor of "THE
	LORD"; some of the
	most ancient Versions, though not all, so read; and ATHANASIUS,
	the great champion of the supreme Divinity of Christ early in the
	fourth century, says the expression "Church of God" is
	unknown to the Scriptures. Which reading, then, does the internal
	evidence favor? As "Church of God" occurs nine times
	elsewhere in Paul's writings, and "Church of the Lord"
	nowhere, the probability, it is said, is that he used his wonted
	phraseology here also. But if he did, it is extremely difficult to
	see how so many early transcribers should have altered it into the
	quite unusual phrase, "Church of the Lord"; whereas, if the
	apostle did use this latter expression, and the historian wrote it so
	accordingly, it it easy to see how transcribers might, from being so
	accustomed to the usual phrase, write it "Church of God."
	On the whole, therefore, we accept the second reading as most
	probably the true one. But see what follows. 
	which he hath purchased—"made
	His own," "acquired." 
	with his own blood—"His
	own" is emphatic: "That glorified Lord who from the right
	hand of power in the heavens is gathering and ruling the Church, and
	by His Spirit, through human agency, hath set you over it, cannot be
	indifferent to its welfare in your hands, seeing He hath given for it
	His own most precious blood, thus making it His own by the dearest of
	all ties." The transcendent sacredness of the Church of Christ
	is thus made to rest on the dignity of its Lord and the consequent
	preciousness of that blood which He shed for it. And as the
	sacrificial atoning character of Christ's death is here plainly
	expressed, so His supreme dignity is implied as clearly
	by the second reading as it is expressed by the first. What a
	motive to pastoral fidelity is here furnished!