1, 2. departed—after Pentecost
	(1 Corinthians 16:8). 
	to go into Macedonia—in
	pursuance of the first part of his plan (1 Corinthians 16:8- :). From his Epistles we learn; (1) That, as might have been
	expected from its position on the coast, he revisited Troas (1 Corinthians 16:8- :; see on Acts 20:1). (2)
	That while on his former visit he appears to have done no missionary
	work there, he now went expressly "to preach Christ's Gospel,"
	and found "a door opened unto him of the Lord" there, which
	he entered so effectually as to lay the foundation of a church there
	(Acts 20:6; Acts 20:7).
	(3) That he would have remained longer there but for his uneasiness
	at the non-arrival of Titus, whom he had despatched to Corinth to
	finish the collection for the poor saints at Jerusalem (1 Corinthians 16:1;
	1 Corinthians 16:2; 2 Corinthians 8:6),
	but still more, that he might bring him word what effect his first
	Epistle to that church had produced. (He had probably arranged that
	they should meet at Troas). (4) That in this state of mind, afraid of
	something wrong, he "took leave" of the brethren at Troas,
	and went from thence into Macedonia. 
	It was, no doubt, the city of
	PHILIPPI that he came to
	(landing at Nicopolis, its seaport, see on 2 Corinthians 8:6- :), as appears by comparing 2 Corinthians 8:6- :, where "Macedonia" is named, with 2 Corinthians 8:6- :, where it appears that Philippi is meant. Here he found the
	brethren, whom he had left on his former visit in circumstances of
	such deep interest, a consolidated and thriving church, generous and
	warmly attached to their father in Christ; under the superintendence,
	probably, of our historian, "the beloved physician" (see on
	Acts 20:1). All that is said by
	our historian of this Macedonian visit is that "he went over
	those parts and gave them much exhortation." (5) Titus not
	having reached Philippi as soon as the apostle, "his flesh had
	no rest, but he was troubled on every side: without were fightings,
	within were fears" (2 Corinthians 7:5).
	(6) At length Titus arrived, to the joy of the apostle, the bearer of
	better tidings from Corinth than he had dared to expect (2 Corinthians 7:6;
	2 Corinthians 7:7; 2 Corinthians 7:13),
	but checkered by painful intelligence of the efforts of a hostile
	party to undermine his apostolic reputation there (2 Corinthians 7:13- :). (7) Under the mixed feelings which this produced, he
	wrote—from Macedonia, and probably Philippi—his SECOND
	EPISTLE TO THE CORINTHIANS
	(see 2 Corinthians 7:13- : to Second
	Corinthians); despatching Titus with it, and along with him two other
	unnamed deputies, expressly chosen to take up and bring their
	collection for the poor saints at Jerusalem, and to whom he bears the
	beautiful testimony, that they were "the glory of Christ"
	(2 Corinthians 8:22; 2 Corinthians 8:23).
	(8) It must have been at this time that he penetrated as far as to
	the confines of "Illyricum," lying along the shores of the
	Adriatic (Romans 15:19). He would
	naturally wish that his second Letter to the Corinthians should have
	some time to produce its proper effect ere he revisited them, and
	this would appear a convenient opportunity for a northwestern
	circuit, which would enable him to pay a passing visit to the
	churches at Thessalonica and Berea, though of this we have no record.
	On his way southward to Greece, he would preach the Gospel in the
	intermediate regions of Epirus, Thessaly, and Boeotia (see Romans 15:19- :), though of this we have no record.