James 5:12. Next follows a caution against swearing. There does not seem to be any connection between this caution and what precedes. St. James was perhaps led to it by the circumstances of his readers.  But above all things, my brethren  as a caution of the highest importance
	 swear  not. We have in the prohibition, and in the   words in which it is expressed, a third manifest reference to the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5:34-37). The Jews, as we learn from the Gospels, were very apt to indulge in swearing on trifling occasions; and it was doubtless the continuation of this evil habit among the converted Jews that was the occasion of this prohibition of St James.
	 neither  by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath. The words are precisely similar to those used by our Lord, only in a more condensed form: ‘I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven, for it is God’s   throne; nor by the earth, for it is His footstool’ (Matthew 5:34-35). It is a question, which has been often discussed, whether all oaths are here   forbidden. On the one hand, the words appear sufficiently universal; but, on the other hand, there are scriptural declarations which seem to prove the lawfulness of oaths (Hebrews 6:16), and there are instances of oaths having been taken by the sacred writers themselves (2 Corinthians 1:23). It has also   been observed that swearing by God is neither here   nor in our Lord’s words forbidden; and that, on the contrary, this is in certain cases commanded in the Old Testament. ‘Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve Him, and shalt swear by His name’ (Deuteronomy 6:13). It would appear that what St. James has here chiefly in view is the evil custom of swearing in common conversation; but he so expresses himself that oaths among Christians should be unnecessary a simple affirmation or negation should be sufficient. At the same time, in some cases, as in courts of judicature, an oath is not only lawful, but may be expedient and needful(Hebrews 6:16).
	 but let your yea be yea, and your nay, nay: be content with a simple assertion. Compare Matthew 5:37.
	 lest ye fall into condemnation:  literally, lest ye fall under judgment.
	