James 5:9.  Grudge not. The Greek verb means to sigh or groan; it is here rendered ‘grudge,’ because that word in Old English signified to murmur or repine. Hence ‘murmur not;’ be not impatient. This refers not so much to the feeling of envy ‘be not envious to each other’ as to impatience and irritability of temper, which are often the effects of severe or protracted trials. It requires great grace to avoid all murmuring and petulance in suffering; especially it is a difficult attainment calmly to endure great pain; but God giveth more grace
	 one against another, brethren  murmuring gives rise to mutual recrimination.
	 lest ye be condemned, or judged. Their murmuring against their brethren led them to find fault with them, and thus to accuse them falsely; and this exposed them to the righteous judgment of God, who is the Avenger of all those who are wrongly condemned. There is here one of those manifest references in this Epistle to the Sermon on the Mount (see Introduction). The sentiment is precisely similar to the maxim of our Lord: ‘Judge not, that ye be not judged’ (Matthew 7:1).
	 Behold, the Judge standeth before the door. The near approach of the great unerring Judge should cause us to suspend our judgments. This phrase is evidently equivalent to ‘The coming of the Lord draweth nigh,’ and therefore by the Judge we are to understand Christ. Christ is at hand; He is even at the door, ready to render to every man according to his works. ‘Before the door,’ denoting the nearness of the advent. Compare Matthew 24:33: ‘Likewise, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the door.’ In a different sense, in the Book of Revelation, but still denoting nearness, Christ is represented as before the door: ‘Behold, I stand at the door and knock’ (Revelation 3:20). St. James had previously exhorted believers to patience in the endurance of trials by the consideration of this nearness of the advent; now he warns them by the same consideration against all murmuring and rash judgment of each other.
	