James 5:8.  Be ye also patient: as well as ‘the husbandman; in this imitate his example.
	 stablish your hearts: possess your souls in patience; ‘be ye stedfast and immoveable.’ ‘Not the weak, but the strong hearts are qualified to cherish patience’ (Huther). We need strength of mind to be patient; endurance is an evidence of strength.
	 for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh: the Lord is near; His coming to execute vengeance on your oppressors, and to reward your patience, is close at hand. ‘Lest any,’ observes Calvin, ‘should object, and say that the time of deliverance was too long delayed, he obviates this objection, and says, The Lord was at hand, or, which is the same thing, The coming of the Lord draweth nigh.’ Here, also, two different interpretations are given: some referring this phrase to Christ’s coming in spirit to destroy Jerusalem, and which was close at hand; and others referring it to His coming to judge the world to the second advent, properly so called. We give the preference to this latter view, as the natural meaning of the words. But, it is asked, how can St. James say that Christ’s second coming draweth nigh? Some solve the difficulty by saying that it was so in the sight of God, with whom ‘one day is as a thousand years,’ and that faith enabled believers to see things as God saw them. But St. James mentions this coming for the comfort of the oppressed, and therefore he must allude to a coming in their estimation near at hand. Others refer it to the then general expectation of the Lord’s advent Believers were then taught to live in constant expectation of the coming of the Lord. This event was indeed shrouded in uncertainty, and our Lord refused to give any revelation as to its time (Acts 1:7); but it was not by the primitive Church regarded, as it is by us, as far removed into the distant future, and as wholly improbable to happen in their days, but as an occurrence which might any time take place even before that generation had passed away. ‘The longing of the apostolic Church “hasted unto” the coming of the Lord. All Christian time appeared only as the point of transition to the eternal, and thus as something passing quickly away’ (Neander). Hence the exhortations of the sacred writers: ‘Let your moderation,’ says St. Paul, ‘be known unto all men; the Lord is at hand’ (Philippians 4:5). ‘The end of all things,’ says St. Peter, ‘is at hand; be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer’ (1 Peter 4:7).
	