23. he began to be about thirty—that
	is, "was about entering on His thirtieth year." So our
	translators have taken the word (and so CALVIN,
	BEZA, BLOOMFIELD,
	WEBSTER and WILKINSON,
	c.): but "was about thirty years of age when He began [His
	ministry]," makes better Greek, and is probably the true
	sense [BENGEL, OLSHAUSEN,
	DE WETTE,
	MEYER, ALFORD,
	&c.]. At this age the priests entered on their office ( :-). 
	being, as was supposed, the
	son of Joseph, &c.—Have we in this genealogy, as well as in
	Matthew's, the line of Joseph? or is this the line of Mary?—a
	point on which there has been great difference of opinion and much
	acute discussion. Those who take the former opinion contend
	that it is the natural sense of this verse, and that no other would
	have been thought of but for its supposed improbability and the
	uncertainty which it seems to throw over our Lord's real descent. But
	it is liable to another difficulty namely, that in this case Matthew
	makes Jacob, while Luke makes "Heli," to be
	Joseph's father; and though the same man had often more than one
	name, we ought not to resort to that supposition, in such a case as
	this, without necessity. And then, though the descent of Mary from
	David would be liable to no real doubt, even though we had no table
	of her line preserved to us (see, for example,  :-, and see on Luke 2:5),
	still it does seem unlikely—we say not incredible—that two
	genealogies of our Lord should be preserved to us, neither of which
	gives his real descent. Those who take the latter
	opinion, that we have here the line of Mary, as in Matthew
	that of Joseph—here His real, there His reputed
	line—explain the statement about Joseph, that he was "the
	son of Hell," to mean that he was his son-in-law, as
	the husband of his daughter Mary (as in Ruth 1:11;
	Ruth 1:12), and believe that
	Joseph's name is only introduced instead of Mary's, in conformity
	with the Jewish custom in such tables. Perhaps this view is attended
	with fewest difficulties, as it certainly is the best supported.
	However we decide, it is a satisfaction to know that not a doubt was
	thrown out by the bitterest of the early enemies of Christianity as
	to our Lord's real descent from David. On comparing the two
	genealogies, it will be found that Matthew, writing more immediately
	for Jews, deemed it enough to show that the Saviour was sprung
	from Abraham and David; whereas Luke, writing more immediately for
	Gentiles, traces the descent back to Adam, the parent stock of
	the whole human family, thus showing Him to be the promised "Seed
	of the woman." "The possibility of constructing such a
	table, comprising a period of thousands of years, in an uninterrupted
	line from father to son, of a family that dwelt for a long time in
	the utmost retirement, would be inexplicable, had not the members of
	this line been endowed with a thread by which they could
	extricate themselves from the many families into which every tribe
	and branch was again subdivided, and thus hold fast and know the
	member that was destined to continue the lineage. This thread was the
	hope that Messiah would be born of the race of Abraham and David. The
	ardent desire to behold Him and be partakers of His mercy and glory
	suffered not the attention to be exhausted through a period embracing
	thousands of years. Thus the member destined to continue the lineage,
	whenever doubtful, became easily distinguishable, awakening the hope
	of a final fulfilment, and keeping it alive until it was consummated"
	[OLSHAUSEN].