27. keep under—literally,
	"bruise the face under the eyes," so as to render it black
	and blue; so, to chastise in the most sensitive part. Compare
	"mortify the deeds of the body,"  :-; also 1 Peter 2:11. It is
	not ascetic fasts or macerations of the body which are here
	recommended, but the keeping under of our natural
	self-seeking, so as, like Paul, to lay ourselves out entirely for the
	great work. 
	my body—the old man and
	the remainders of lust in my flesh. "My body," so far as by
	the flesh it opposes the spirit [ESTIUS]
	(Galatians 5:17). Men may be severe to
	their bodies and yet indulge their lust. Ascetic "neglect of the
	body" may be all the while a more subtile "satisfying of
	the flesh" (Colossians 2:23).
	Unless the soul keep the body under, the body will get above the
	soul. The body may be made a good servant, but is a bad master. 
	bring it into subjection—or
	bondage, as a slave or servant led away captive; so the
	Greek.
preached—literally,
	"heralded." He keeps up the image from the races. The
	heralds summoned the candidates for the foot race into the
	race course [PLATO, Laws,
	8.833], and placed the crowns on the brows of the conquerors,
	announcing their names [BENGEL].
	They probably proclaimed also the laws of the combat; answering to
	the preaching of the apostles [ALFORD].
	The The Christian herald is also a combatant, in which
	respect he is distinguished from the herald at the games. 
	a castaway—failing
	shamefully of the prize myself, after I have called others to
	the contest. Rejected by God, the Judge of the Christian race,
	notwithstanding my having, by my preaching, led others to be
	accepted. Compare the equivalent term, "reprobate," Jeremiah 6:30;
	2 Corinthians 13:6. Paul implies, if such
	earnest, self-denying watchfulness over himself be needed still, with
	all his labors for others, to make his own calling sure, much more is
	the same needed by the Corinthians, instead of their going, as they
	do, to the extreme limit of Christian liberty.