 4 .] The construction is resumed, having been interrupted (see above on Eph 2:1 ) by the two relative sentences,  ἐν αἷς  …   ἐν οἷς .  But (contrast to the preceding verse, the ἔλεος and ἀγάπη , to the ὀργή just mentioned,  δέ is, however, often used after a parenthesis where no such logical contrast is intended, the very resumption of the general subject being a contrast to its interruption by the particular clauses: see examples in Klotz, Devarius, II. 376, 7)  God, being rich (the participial clause states the general ground, and the following διὰ τ . πολλ . ἀγ ., the special or peculiar motive, of συνεζωοπ ., De W.)  in compassion (for ἐν , see reff. οὐχ ἁπλῶς ἐλεήμων , ἀλλὰ πλούσιος · καθάπερ καὶ ἐν ἑτέρῳ (Psalms 5:7 ; Psa 68:13 ) φησὶν Ἐν τῷ πλήθει τοῦ ἐλέους σου · κ . πάλιν ( Psa 1:1 ) Ἐλέησόν με κατὰ τὸ μέγα ἔλεός σου , Chrys.  ἔλεος , properly, as applying to our wretchedness before: cf. Eze 16:6 ),  on account of His great love wherewith (the construction may be attractive: but it would appear from ref. 2 Kings, to be rather a Hellenistic idiom)  He loved us (the clause belongs, not to πλού . ὢν ἐν ἐλ ., as Calv., al., and E. V. necessarily, by ‘  hath quickened ’ following; but to the verb below. ἡμᾶς are  all Christians ; = ἡμεῖς πάντες in the last verse)  even when we were dead (the  καί belongs to, and intensifies, the  state predicated by  ὄντας νεκρούς ; and is therefore placed before the participle. It is not to be taken as a mere resumption of Ephesians 2:1 (Rück., al.), nor as the copula only (Meyer). His objection to the above rendering, that a quickening to life can happen only in and from a state of death, and therefore no emphasis on such a state is required, is entirely removed by noticing that the emphasis is not on the mere fact ἐζωοποίησεν , but on  συνεζ  .   τῷ χριστῷ , with all its glorious consequences)  in our (  τοῖς , the  π  . which we committed)  trespasses (see on Eph 2:1 ),  vivified (not ‘  hath vivified’ a definite act in time, not an abiding consequence is spoken of)  us together with Christ (the reading ἐν τ . χρ . (see var. readd.) seems to have arisen either from repetition of the - εν in συνεζωοποίησεν , or from conformation to Ephesians 2:6 .
	It is clearly not allowable to render χριστῷ ,  in Christ , as Beza, without the preposition. It is governed by the συν -, and implies not exactly as Chrys., ἐζωοποίησε κἀκεῖνον κυὶ ἡμᾶς , but that Christ was THE RESURRECTION and the Life, and we follow in and because of Him. The disputes about the meaning ἐζωοποίησεν have arisen from not bearing in mind the relation in N. T. language between natural and spiritual death. We have often had occasion to observe that spiritual death in the N. T. includes in it and bears with it natural death as a consequence, to such an extent that this latter is often not thought of as worth mentioning: see especially John 11:25-26 , which is the key-text for all passages regarding life in Christ. So here God vivified us together with Christ: in the one act and fact of His resurrection He raised all His people to spiritual life, and in that to victory over death, both spiritual, and therefore necessarily physical also. To dispute therefore whether such an expression as this is past (spiritual), or future (physical), is to forget that the whole includes its parts. Our  spiritual life is the primary subject of the Apostle’s thought: but this includes in itself our share in the resurrection and exaltation ( Eph 2:6 ) of Christ. The three aorists, συνεζωοποίησεν , συνήγειρεν , συνεκάθισεν , are all proleptical as regards the actuation in each man, but equally describe a past and accomplished act on God’s part when He raised up Christ)  by grace ye are saved (this insertion in the midst of the mention of such great unmerited mercies to us sinners, is meant emphatically to call the reader’s attention to so cogent a proof of that which the Apostle ever preached as the great foundation truth of the Gospel. Notice the perf. ‘  are saved,’ not σώζεσθε , ‘are  being saved,’ because we have passed from death unto life: salvation is to the Christian not a future but a past thing, realized in the present by faith)  and raised us together with Him (the Resurrection of Christ being the next event consequent on His vivification in the tomb)  and seated us together with Him (the Ascension being the completion of the Resurrection. So that all three verbs refer strictly to the same work wrought on Christ, and in Christ on all His mystical Body, the Church)  in the heavenly places (see on ch. Ephesians 1:3 ; Ephesians 1:20 . “Obiter observa, non dixisse Apostolum: ‘  et consedere fecit ad dexteram suam ,’ sicut superiori capite de Christo dixerat: sedere enim ad dexteram Patris Christo proprium est; nec cuiquam alteri communicatur: tametsi in throno Christi dicantur sessuri qui vicerint, Apoc. iii. in fine.” Estius: and so Bengel)  in Christ Jesus (as again specifying the element in which, as united and included in which, we have these blessings which have been enumerated  ἐν χρ  . as in ch. Ephesians 1:3 , does not (Eadie) belong to τ . ἐπουρ . but to the verb, as an additional qualification, and recalling to the fact of our union in Him as the medium of our resurrection and glorification. The disputes as to whether these are to be taken as present or future, actual or potential, literal or spiritual, will easily be disposed of by those who have apprehended the truth of the believer’s union in and with Christ. All these we have, in fact and reality (see Php 3:20 ), in their highest, and therefore in all lower senses, in Him: they were ours, when they were His: but for their fulness in possession we are waiting till He come, when we shall be like and with Him),