 19 .]  So then ( ἄρα οὖν is said by Hermann (Viger, art. 292) not to be classical Greek. It is frequent in St. Paul, but confined to him: see reff. Cf. on Gal 6:10 )  ye no longer are strangers and sojourners (see ref. Acts, where certainly this is the sense. “  πάροικος is here simply the same as the classic μέτοικος (a form which does not occur in the N. T., and only once, Jeremiah 20:3 , in the LXX), and was probably its Alexandrian equivalent. It is used frequently in the LXX, in eleven passages as a translation of נַּר , and in nine of תּוֹשָׁב .” Ellicott. ‘Sojourners,’ as dwelling among the Jews, but not numbered with them. Bengel opposes ξένοι to ‘cives’ and πάροικοι to ‘domestici,’ and so Harless: but this seems too artificial),  but are fellow-citizens with the saints ( συμπολίτης is blamed by Phrynichus (ed. Lob. p. 172: see Lobeck’s note) and the Atticists as a later word. But it occurs in Eur. Heraclid. 821, and the compound verb συμπολιτεύω is found in pure Attic writers: see Palm and Rost’s Lex. πολῖται would not here express the meaning of  comrades, co-citizens , of the saints.  οἱ ἅγιοι are not  angels , nor  Jews , nor  Christians then alive merely, but the saints of God in the widest sense, all members of the mystical body of Christ, the commonwealth of the spiritual Israel)  and of the household ( οἰκεῖοι , not as Harl., ‘stones of which the house is built,’ which is an unnatural anticipation here, where all is a political figure, of the material figure in the next verse: but, members of God’s family,’ in the usual sense of the word)  of God, having been built (we cannot express the ἐπ -: the ‘  superædificati ’ of the Vulg. gives it: we have the substantive ‘superstructure,’ but no verb corresponding. There is, though Harl. (see above) denies it, a transition from one image, a political and social, to another, a material)  upon the foundation (dative as  resting upon : in 1 Corinthians 3:12 , where we have εἴ τις ἐποικοδομεῖ ἐπὶ τὸν θεμέλιον …, the idea of  bringing and laying upon is prominent, and therefore the case of motion is used. Between the genitive and dative of rest with ἐπί there is the distinction, that the genitive implies more partial overhanging, looser connexion, the dative, a connexion of close fitting attachment. So in Xen. we have, ἐπὶ τῆς κεφαλῆς τὰ ὅπλα ἔφερον , partial, ‘  over ,’ οἱ Θρᾷκες ἀλωπεκίδας ἐπὶ ταῖς κεφαλαῖς φοροῦσι , close, ‘  on :’ see Donaldson’s Greek Gr. § 483)  of the Apostles and Prophets (how is this genitive to be understood? Is it a genitive of apposition, so that the Apostles and Prophets themselves  are the foundation? This has been supposed by numerous Commentators, from Chrys. to De Wette. But, not to mention the very many other objections which have been well and often urged against this view, this one is to my mind decisive, that it entirely destroys the imagery of the passage. The temple, into which these Gentiles were built, is the mystical body of the Son, in which the Father dwells by the Spirit, Ephesians 2:22 . The Apostles and Prophets (see below), yea, Jesus Christ Himself, as the great inclusive Head Corner Stone (see again below), are also built into this temple. (That He includes likewise the  foundation , and IS the foundation, is true, and must be remembered, but is not prominent here.) Clearly then the Apostles and Prophets cannot  be the foundation, being here spoken of as parts of the building, together with these Gentiles, and with Jesus Christ Himself. But again, does the genitive mean, the foundation which the Apostles and Prophets  have laid? So also very many, from Ambrst., to Rück., Harl., Mey., Stier, Ellic., both edd. As clearly, not thus. To introduce them here as  agents , is as inconsistent as the other. No agents are here spoken of, but merely the fact of the great building in its several parts being built up together. The only remaining interpretation then is, to regard the genitive as simply possessive: ‘  the foundation of the Apostles and Prophets ,’ = ‘  the Apostles’ and Prophets’ foundation ’ that upon which they as well as yourselves are built. This exegesis, which I find ascribed to Bucer only (in De W.), seems to me beyond question the right one. See more below.
	But (2)  who are  προφῆται ? They have commonly been taken, without enquiry, as the  O. T. Prophets . And certainly, the sense, with some little straining, would admit of this view. They may be said to be built upon Christ, as belonging to that widest acceptation of His mystical body, in which it includes all the saints, O. T. as well as N. T. But there are several objections: first, formal: the  order of the words has been urged against this view, in that  προφ  . should have come first. I should not be inclined to lay much weight on this; the Apostles might naturally be spoken of first, as nearest, and the Prophets second ‘the Apostles, yea and of the Prophets also.’ A more serious formal objection is, the omission of the article before προφ ., thereby casting  τῶν ἀποστόλων κ  .   προφητῶν together as belonging to the same class. But weightier objections are behind. In ch. Ephesians 3:5 , we have ὃ ἑτέραις γενεαῖς οὐκ ἐγνωρίσθη τοῖς νἱοῖς τῶν ἀνθρώπων , ὡς νῦν ἀπεκαλύφθη τοῖς ἁγίοις ἀποστόλοις αὐτοῦ κ . προφήταις ἐν πνεύματι , where unquestionably the προφῆται are N. T. Prophets; and again ch. Ephesians 4:11 , καὶ αὐτὸς ἔδωκεν τοὺς μὲν ἀποστόλους , τοὺς δὲ προφήτας . And it is difficult to conceive that the Apostle should have used the two words conjoined here, in a different sense. Even stronger is the consideration arising from the whole sense of the passage. All here is strictly Christian, post-Judaic, consequent on Christ’s death, and triumph, and His coming preaching peace by the Spirit to the united family of man. So that we must decide for προφ . being  N. T. Prophets : those who ranked next to the Apostles in the government of the church: see Acts 11:27 , note. They were not in every case distinct from the Apostles: the apostleship probably always including the gift of  prophecy : so that all the Apostles themselves might likewise have been προφῆται ),  Christ Jesus Himself (the  αὐτοῦ exalts the dignity of the temple, in that not only it has among its stones Apostles and prophets, but the Lord Himself is built into it. The attempt of Bengel, al., to render  αὐτοῦ , ‘  its ,’ and refer it to θεμελίῳ , will be seen, by what has been said, to be foreign to the purpose. Besides, it would more naturally be ὄντος αὐτοῦ ἀκρογ .… Bengel’s idea, that on our rendering, it must be αὐτοῦ τοῦ , is refuted by such passages as καὶ αὐτὸς Δαυείδ , Luk 20:42 )  being the Head corner stone (see, besides reff., Ps. 117:22; Jeremiah 28:0 (51):26; Matthew 21:42 ; Acts 4:11 . The reference here is clearly to that Headstone of the Corner, which is not only the most conspicuous but the most important in the building: “qui, in extremo angulo (fundamenti, but qu.?) positus, duos parietes ex diverso venientes conjungit et continet,” Est. Builders set up such a stone, or build such a pillar of brick, before getting up their walls, to rule and square them by. I must again repeat, that the fact of Jesus Christ being Himself the  foundation , however it underlies the whole, is not to be brought in as interfering with this portion of the figure),