 10 .]  For (substantiates Ephesians 2:8-9 . The English reader is likely to imagine a contrast between ‘not of  works ’ and ‘for we are His  work manship,’ which can hardly have been in the mind of the Apostle)  his handywork are we (  ποίημα , not, as Tert. and al., of our  original creation : “quod vivimus, quod spiramus, quod intelligimus, quod credere possumus, ipsius est, quia ipse conditor noster est,” Pelagius, in Harl.: this is clearly refuted by the defining clause below, κτισθ . κ . τ . λ ., and the ποίημα shewn to be the spiritual creation treated of in Eph 2:8-9 ),  created in Christ Jesus (see Ephesians 2:15 , ἵνα τοὺς δύο κτίσῃ ἐν αὐτῷ εἰς ἕνα καινὸν ἄνθρωπον , and cf. Titus 3:5 , where the beginning of this new life is called παλιγγενεσία . See also 2 Corinthians 5:17 ; Gal 6:15 )  for (see reff.: so Xen. Anab. vii. 6. 3, καλεῖ αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ ξενία . See Winer, edn. 6, § 48,  c . e; Phrynichus, ed. Lobeck, p. 475)  good works (just as a tree may be said to be created for its fruit: see below),  which , (attraction for ἅ : not ‘for which,’ which would require ἡμᾶς after the verb)  God before prepared (‘ante paravit, quam conderet.’ Fritz., in Ellic. So Philo, de Opif. 25, vol. i. p. 18, ὁ θεὸς τὰ ἐν κόσμῳ πάντα  προ ητοίμασεν : Wis 9:8 , μίμημα σκηνῆς ἁγίας ἣν  προ ητοίμασας ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς . The sentiment is the same as that in John 5:36 , τὰ ἔργα ἃ ἔδωκέν μοι ὁ πατὴρ ἵνα τελειώσω αὐτά . To recur to the similitude used above, we might say of the trees, they were created for fruits which God before prepared that they should bear them: i.e. defined and assigned to each tree its own, in form, and flavour, and time of bearing. So in the course of God’s providence, our good works are marked out for and assigned to each one of us. See the doctrine of præ-existence in God explained in Delitzsch’s biblische Psychologie, p. 23 ff. Stier’s view, after Bengel, is that the verb  προητ  . is  neuter , having no accusative after it, ‘  for which God made preparation , &c.:’ but this usage of the compound verb wants example)  that we should walk in them . Thus the truth of the maxim “bona opera non præcedunt justificandum, sed sequuntur justificatum” (see Harl.) is shewn. The sentiment is strictly pauline (against De W. and Baur), in the spirit of Romans 12:0 , Galatians 5:22 ; Galatians 5:25 , &c.