 2 .]  in which ( ἁμαρτίαις , the last substantive, but applying in fact to both)  ye once walked (we hardly need, as Eadie, al., go back every time to the figure in περιπατεῖν the word has become with the Apostle so common in its figurative sense. See Fritzsche’s note, Rom. vol. iii. p. 140)  according to (after the leading of, conformably to)  the course (so E. V.: the very best word, as so often. The meaning of  αἰών here is compounded of its temporal and its ethical sense: it is not exactly ‘  lifetime ,’ ‘duration,’ nor again ‘fashion,’ ‘spirit,’ but some common term which will admit of being both temporally and ethically characterized, ‘career’ or ‘course.’ Beware 1) of taking  αἰῶνα and  κόσμου as synonymous, and the expression as a pleonasm (“utrumque nominat, seculum et mundum, cum sufficeret alterum dixisse,” Estius), 2) of imagining, as Michaelis and Baur, that the expression is a gnostic one, the æon being  the devil : for, as Meyer remarks, the ordinary sense of αἰών gives a good meaning, and one characteristic of St. Paul. See Galatians 1:4 , for a use of αἰών somewhat similar, but more confined to the temporal meaning)  of this world (St. Paul generally uses ὁ κόσμος , but has ὁ κ . οὗτος in 1Co 3:19 ; 1 Corinthians 5:10 ; 1 Corinthians 7:31 . It designates the present system of things, as alien from God, and lying in the evil one),  according to the ruler of the power of the air (the devil the θεὸς τοῦ αἰῶνος τούτου , 2 Corinthians 4:4 , is clearly meant: but it is difficult exactly to dissect the phrase, and give each word its proper meaning.  ἐξουσία appears to be used here as ὁμηλικίη in Homer, ἡλικία , ἑταιρία , δουλεία , ὑπηρεσία συμμαχία , and the like, to represent  the aggregate of those in power: as we say, ‘the government.’ So that all such renderings as ‘princeps potentissimus’ are to be at once dismissed. So also is every explanation which would ascribe to the Apostle a polemical, or distantly allusive tendency, in an expression which he manifestly uses as one of passage merely, and carrying its own familiar sense to his readers. This against Michaelis, and all who have imagined an allusion to the gnostic ideas and Wetst., who says, “Paulus ita loquitur ex principiis philosophiæ Pythagoreæ, quibus illi ad quos scribit imbuti erant.” Not much better are those who refer the expression to Rabbinical ideas for its source. The different opinions and authorities (which would far exceed the limits of a general commentary) may be seen cited and treated in Harless, Stier, and Eadie. I am disposed to seek my interpretation from a much more obvious source: viz. the persuasion and common parlance of mankind, founded on analogy with well-known facts. (Ellic., edn. 2, disapproves this, but without sufficiently attending to my explanation which follows, which, as in so many cases where he imagines a difference between our interpretations, is practically the same as his own,) We are tempted by evil spirits, who have access to us, and suggest thoughts and desires to our minds. We are surrounded by the air, which is the vehicle of speech and of all suggestions to our senses. Tried continually as we are by these temptations, what so natural, as to assign to their ministers a dwelling in, and power over that element which is the vehicle of them to us? And thus our Lord, in the parable of the sower, when He would represent the devil coming and taking away the seed out of the heart, figures him by τὰ πετεινὰ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ . The Apostle then, in using this expression, would be appealing to the common feeling of his readers, not to any recondite or questionable system of dæmonology. That traces are found in such systems, of a belief agreeing with this, is merely a proof that they have embodied the same general feeling, and may be used in illustration, not as the ground, of the Apostle’s saying.
	All attempts to represent  ἀήρ as meaning ‘  darkness ,’ or ‘  spirit ,’ are futile, and beside the purpose. The word occurs (see reff.) six more times in the N. T. and no where in any but its ordinary meaning),  of the spirit ( τῆς ἐξουσίας being used as designating (see above) the personal aggregate of those evil ones who have this power,  τοῦ πνεύματος , in apposition with it, represents their aggregate character, as an influence on the human mind, a spirit of ungodliness and disobedience, the πνεῦμα τοῦ κόσμου of 1 Corinthians 2:12 , the aggregate of the πνεύματα πλάνα of 1 Timothy 4:1 . So that (against Harless) the meaning of πνεύματος , though properly and strictly objective, almost passes into the subjective, when it is spoken of as ἐνεργοῦντος ἐν κ . τ . λ . And this will account for the otherwise harsh conjunction of ἄρχοντα τοῦ πνεύματος . As he (the devil) is the ruler of τὰ πνεύματα , whose aggregate τὸ πνεῦμα is, so he is the ἄρχων of the thoughts and ways of the ungodly, of that πνεῦμα which works in them. The genitive, πνεύματος , must not be taken, as by many Commentators and by Rückert, as in apposition with ἄρχοντα , by the Apostle’s negligence of construction. No such assumption should ever be made without necessity; and there is surely none here)  which is now (i.e ‘  still :’ contrast to ποτέ , to  you , who have escaped from his government: no allusion need be thought of to the interval before the παρουσία being that of the hottest conflict between the principles (2 Thessalonians 2:7 . Rev 12:12 ), as De W.)  working in the sons of (the expression is a Hebraism, but is strictly reproduced in the fact: that of which they are sons, is the source and spring of their lives, not merely an accidental quality belonging to them)  disobedience (the vulg. renders it  diffidentia , but unfortunately, as also Luther Unglaube; for both here and in ch. Ephesians 5:6 , it is practical conduct which is spoken of. Doubtless unbelief is the root of disobedience: but it is not here expressed, only implied. In Deuteronomy 9:23 ,  ἠπειθήσατε τῷ ῥήματι κυρίου τ . θεοῦ ὑμῶν , and the allusion to it in Hebrews 4:6 , οἱ πρότερον εὐαγγελισθέντες οὐκ εἰσῆλθον δι ʼ  ἀπείθειαν , we have the disobedience in its root here, in its fruits cf. Ephesians 2:3 , ποιοῦντες τὰ θελήματα κ . τ . λ .):