 7 .]  that He might shew forth (see Romans 9:23 : and for  ἐνδείξηται , reff. The middle voice gives the reference which the English sentence itself implies, that the exhibition is for His own purpose, for His own glory (see ch. Ephesians 1:6 ; Ephesians 1:12 ; Eph 1:14 ) see note on Colossians 2:15 . This meaning of  præ se ferre is illustrated by Liddell and Scott sub voce: or far better by Palm and Rost, Lex.
	Beware of the rendering ‘might give a specimen of, (Rückert, Eadie), which the word will not bear either here or in reff.)  in the ages which are hereafter to come (what are they? the future periods of the Church’s earthly career, or the ages of the glorified Church hereafter? The answer must be given by comparing this with the very similar expression in Colossians 1:26-27 , … τὸ μυστήριον τὸ ἀποκεκρυμμένον ἀπὸ τῶν αἰώνων κ . ἀπὸ τῶν γενεῶν , νυνὶ δὲ ἐφανερώθη τοῖς ἁγίοις αὐτοῦ , οἷς ἠθέλησεν ὁ θεὸς γνωρίσαι τίς ὁ πλοῦτος τῆς δόξης αὐτοῦ κ . τ . λ . Here it is manifest (1) that the αἰῶνες from which the mystery was hidden are the past ages of this world; (2) that those to whom, as here, God will make known the riches of His glory, are His saints, i.e. His church on earth. Therefore I conceive we are compelled to interpret analogously: viz. to understand the  αἰῶνες ἐπερχόμενοι of the coming ages of the church, and the persons involved in them to be the future members of the church. Thus the meaning will be nearly as in ch. Ephesians 1:12 .
	The supposed reference to the future state of glory seems not to agree with αἰῶ  νες , nor with ἐπερχόμενοι : nor with the fact that the second coming and future kingdom of Christ are hardly ever alluded to in this Epistle)  the exceeding riches of His grace in (of the material of which this display of His grace will consist, the department in which it will find its exercise)  goodness (see especially Rom 2:4 )  towards us in (not ‘  through ,’ as E. V.)  Christ Jesus (again and again he repeats this “  in Christ Jesus :” HE is the great centre of the Epistle, towards whom all the rays of thought converge, and from whom all blessings flow; and this the Apostle will have his readers never forget).