 22 .]  in whom (not ‘  in which ,’ viz. the temple it is characteristic (see above) of this part of the epistle to string together these relative expressions, all referring to the same)  ye also (not, as Eadie, ‘  even you :’ there is no depreciation here, but an exaltation, of the Gentiles, as living stones of the great building)  are being built in together (with one another, or with those before mentioned. An imperative sense (‘Ephesios hortatur ut crescant in fide Christi magis et magis postquam in ea semel fuerunt fundati,’ Calv.) is not for a moment to be thought of: the whole passage is descriptive, not hortatory)  for (Griesb. parenthesizes with two commas,  ἐν ᾧ  …   συνοικοδομεῖσθε , and takes this  εἰς as parallel with the former  εἰς . But this unnecessarily involves the sentence, which is simple enough as it stands)  an habitation of God (the only true temple of God, in which He dwells, being the Body of Christ, in all the glorious acceptation of that term)  in the Spirit (it is even now, in the state of imperfection, by the Spirit, dwelling in the hearts of believers, that God has His habitation in the Church: and then, when the growth and increase of that Church shall be completed, it will be still in and by the Holy Spirit fully penetrating and possessing the whole glorified Church, that the Father will dwell in it for ever. Thus we have the true temple of the Father, built in the Son, inhabited in the Spirit: the offices of the Three blessed Persons being distinctly pointed out: God, THE FATHER, in all His fulness, dwells in, fills the Church: that Church is constituted an holy Temple to Him in THE SON, is inhabited by Him in the ever-present indwelling of the HOLY SPIRIT. The attempt to soften away ἐν πνεύματι into πνευματικῶς ( ναὸς πνευματικός , Chrys., and so Thl., Œc., al., and even Olsh.) is against the whole sense of the passage, in which not the present spiritual state of believers, but their ultimate glorious completion (  εἰς ) is spoken of. See reff.).