 3 .]  among whom (the υἱοὶ τ . ἀπειθείας : not merely local, but ‘numbered among whom,’ ὧν καὶ αὐτοὶ ὄντες , as Rückert: not ‘  in which ,’ viz. παραπτώμασιν , as Syr., Jer., Grot., Bengel, al., and Stier, who would divide off ἁμαρτίαι , allotting them to the Gentiles, and to Ephesians 2:2 , and παραπτώματα , assigning them to the Jews, and to Ephesians 2:3 . See further on this below: but meantime, besides its very clumsy treatment of the ἁμαρτ . and παραπτ . which both belong to ὑμεῖς in Ephesians 2:1 , it ascribes to the Apostle an unusual and unnatural precision in distinguishing the two words which he had used without any such note of distinction, such as τε καί )  we also all (WHO? The usage of  ἡμεῖς πάντες by St. Paul must decide. It occurs Romans 4:16 , ὅς ἐστιν πατὴρ πάντων ἡμῶν , undeniably for Jews and Gentiles included (for the slight difference arising from πάντων being first, and therefore emphatic, need not be insisted on): Romans 8:32 , ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν πάντων παρέδωκεν αὐτόν , where the universal reference is as undeniable: 1 Corinthians 12:13 , where it is still more marked: ἡμεῖς πάντες · … εἴτε Ἰουδαῖοι εἴτε Ἕλληνες , εἴτε δοῦλοι εἴτε ἐλεύθεροι : 2 Corinthians 3:18 , equally undoubted. It can hardly then be that here he should have departed from his universal usage, and placed an unmeaning πάντες after ἡμεῖς merely to signify, ‘we Jews, every one of us.’ I therefore infer that by  ἡμεῖς πάντες , he means, we all, Jews and Gentiles alike; all, who are now Christians)  lived our life (reff. especially 2 Cor.)  once, in (as in ref. 1 Pet., of the element, in which: in 2 Corinthians 1:12 , the same double use of ἐν , of the place, and the element, is found)  the desires of our flesh (of our unrenewed selves, under the dominion of the body and the carnal soul. See a contrast, Gal 5:16 ),  doing the wishes (the instances in which τὸ θέλημα manifested itself: see reff.)  of our flesh and of our thoughts (the plural use is remarkable. There appears to be a reference to Numbers 15:39 , οὐ διαστραφήσεσθε ὀπίσω τῶν διανοιῶν ὑμῶν . In Isaiah 55:9 , a distinction is made, ἀπέχει … τὰ διανοήματα ὑμῶν ἀπὸ τῆς διανοίας μου , which is useful here, as pointing to διάνοιαι as an improper use for διανοήματα , the instrument for its results. Thus ‘  thoughts ’ will be our nearest word those phases of mind which may or may not affect the will, but which then in our natural state we allowed to lead us by the desires they excited),  and were (the change of construction has been remarked by the best Commentators as intentional, not of negligence, “to give emphasis to the weighty clause that follows, and to disconnect it from any possible relation to present time, ‘we  were children of wrath by nature, it was once our state and condition, it is now so no longer.’ ” Ellicott. And Eadie remarks: “Had he written καὶ ὄντες , as following out the idea of ποιοῦντες , there might have been a plea against the view of innate depravity (see below) ‘fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and being,’ or ‘so being, children of wrath.’ But the Apostle says καὶ ἤμεθα ‘and we were,’ at a point of time prior to that indicated in ποιοῦντες ”)  children (not = υἱοί , but implying closer relation. The effect of the expression is to set those of whom it is predicated, beneath, in subjection to, as it were, the products of, ὀργή . So in the passages adduced by Harl.; Deuteronomy 25:2 , אִם־בִּן הַכּוֹת , ‘if he be the son of stripes,’ i.e. not as LXX and E. V. ἄξιος πληγῶν , but actually beaten: 1 Samuel 20:31 , בֶּן־מָוֶת הוּא , ‘he is the son of death,’ i.e. as we express it, ‘he is a dead man,’ anticipating the effect of that which seems to be certain)  by nature (the meaning of  φύσει is disputed. Some of the ancients (Cyr., Œc., Thl.), and Grot. took it as = ὄντως , ἀληθῶς , which meaning it never bears; see on Galatians 4:8 . Others (Holzhausen, Hoffm.) would join it with ὀργῆς , ‘anger, which arises from the ungodly natural life:’ but as Mey. remarks, even granting this use of φύσις , this would require τῆς τῇ φύσει ὀργῆς or τῆς ἐκ τῆς φύσ . ὀργῆς . It can then only mean, ‘by nature.’ And what does this imply? Harl., in loc., seems to have given the distinctive sense well: “ φύσις , in its fundamental idea, is that which has  grown as distinguished from that which has been  effected (das Gewordene in Gegensass zum Gemachten), i.e. it is that which according to our judgment has the ground of its existence in individual development, not in accessory influence of another. Accordingly, φύσις , in its concrete idea, as the sum total of all growth, is ‘rerum natura:’ and in its abstract philosophical idea, φύσις is the contrast to θέσις . The φύσις of an individual thing denotes the peculiarity of its being, which is the result of its being, as opposed to every accessory quality: hence φύσει εἶνσι or ποιεῖν τι means, ‘  sua sponte facere, esse aliquid ’ and  ‘natura esse aliquid:’ to be and do any thing by virtue of a state ( εἶναι ) or an  inclination ( ποιεῖν ),  not acquired, but inherent : ἔξοιδα καὶ φύσει σε μὴ πεφυκότα | τοιαῦτα φωνεῖν , μηδὲ τεχνᾶσθαι κακά , Soph. Philoct. 80.” If this be correct, the expression will  amount to an assertion on the part of the Apostle of the doctrine of original sin. There is from its secondary position (cf. Plutarch de frat. am. p. 37, in Harl., ὀργάνων φύσει τοιούτων ἔτυχεν ) no emphasis on φύσει : but its doctrinal force as referring to a fundamental truth otherwise known, is not thereby lessened. And it is not for Meyer to argue against this by assuming original sin not to be a pauline doctrine. If the Apostle asserts it here, this place must stand on its own merits, not be wrested to suit an apparent preconceived meaning of other passages. But the truth is, he cites those other passages in a sense quite alien from their real one. It would be easy to shew that every one of them (Romans 1:18 ; Romans 2:8-9 ; Romans 5:12 ; Romans 7:9 ; Romans 11:21 . Gal 2:15 ) is consistent with the doctrine here implied. The student will do well to read the long notes in Harl., De W., Stier, and Eadie)  of wrath (WHOSE wrath, is evident: the meaning being, we were all concluded under and born in sin, and so actual objects of that wrath of God which is His mind against sin.  ὀργή must not be taken as = τιμωρία , κόλασις , as Chrys., Thdrt., Basil, Thl., al.: this would in fact make the expression mean,  actually punished : see above on τέκνα ; just as it now means, the actual objects of God’s wrath against sin),  as also are (not, were)  the rest (of mankind: not Gentiles, as those hold who take the ἡμεῖς πάντες of Jews, see above: nor, as Stier, the rest of the Jews who disbelieved: but,  all others, not like us, Christians ).