 21 .]  in whom ( ὁ τὸ πᾶν συνέχων ἐστὶν ὁ χριστός , Chr.: not only so, but He is in reality the inclusive Head of the building: it all ἐν αὐτῷ συνέστηκεν , is squared and ruled by its unity to and in Him)  all the building (more properly πᾶσα ἡ οἰκοδ .: and to a  classical Greek ear , any other rendering of πᾶσα οἰκ . than ‘  every building ,’ seems preposterous enough. But ‘every building’ here is quite out of place, inasmuch as the Apostle is clearly speaking of but one vast building, the mystical Body of Christ: and πᾶσα οἰκ . cannot have Meyer’s sense ‘every congregation thus built in:’ nor would it be much better to take refuge in the proper sense of οἰκοδομή , and render ‘all building,’ i.e. ‘every process of building,’ for then we should be at a loss when we come to αὔξει below. Are we then to render ungrammatically, and force words to that which they cannot mean? Certainly not: but we seem to have some light cast here by such an expression as πρωτότοκος πάσης κτίσεως , Colossians 1:15 , which though it may be evaded by rendering ‘of every creature,’ yet is not denied by most Commentators to be intended to bear this sense ‘of all creation:’ cf. also Colossians 1:23 , ἐν πάσῃ κτίσει τῇ ὑπ ʼ οὐρανόν . The account to be given of such later usages is, that gradually other words besides proper names became regarded as able to dispense with the article after πᾶς , so that as they said first πᾶσα Ἱεροσόλυμα ( Mat 2:3 ), and then πᾶς οἶκος Ἰσραήλ ( Act 2:36 ), so they came at length to say πᾶσα κτίσις (as we ourselves ‘all creation,’ for ‘all  the creation’) and πᾶσα οἰκοδομή , when speaking of one universal and notorious building. Ellic. adds to the examples, πᾶσα γῆ , Thucyd. ii. 43, πᾶσα ἐπιστολή , Ignat. Eph. § 12, p. 656.
	 οἰκοδομή itself is a late form, censured by Phryn. (Lob. p. 421) and the Atticists)  being framed exactly together (the verb (= συναρμόζω ) sufficiently explains itself, being only found in these two places (ref.). Wetst. quotes ἡρμολόγησε τάφον from Anthol. iii. 32. 4, and Palm and Rost refer for ἁρμολογέω to Philip of Thessalonica, Ep. 78)  is growing (there seems no reason why the proper sense of the present should not be retained. Both participle and verb imply that the fitting together and the growing are still going on: and the only way which we in English have to mark this so as to avoid the chance of mistake, is by the auxiliary verb substantive, and the participle. The bare present, ‘groweth,’ is in danger of being mistaken for the abstract quality, and the temporal development is thus lost sight of: whereas the other, in giving prominence to that temporal development, also necessarily implies the ‘normal, perpetual, unconditioned nature of the organic increase’ (Ellic.))  to (so ‘crescere in cumulum,’ Claudian in Piscator)  an holy temple in the Lord (i.e. according to apostolic usage, and the sense of the whole passage, ‘  in Christ .’ The  ἐν ᾧ    ἐν κυρίῳ  .   ἐν ᾧ , like the frequent repetitions of the name χριστός in Ephesians 2:12-13 , are used by the Apostle to lay all stress on the fact that Christ is the inclusive Head of all the building, the element in which it has its being and its growth. I would join ἐν κυρίῳ with ναὸν ἅγιον , as more accordant with the Apostle’s style than if it were joined with αὔξει ( αὔξει ἐν κυρ . εἰς ναὸν ἅγ .), or with ἅγιον ( εἰς ναὸν ἐν κυρίῳ ἅγ .). The increase spoken of will issue in its being a holy temple in Christ),