 8 .]  For by grace (the article shews us the import of the sentence to take up and expand the parenthetic clause χάριτί ἐστε σεσωσμένοι above: but not barely so: that clause itself was inserted on account of the matter in hand being a notable example of the fact, and this γάρ takes up also that matter in hand the ὑπερβάλλον πλοῦτος κ . τ . λ )  ye are (perf.)  saved, through [  your ] (or [  the ], but the possessive article is preferable, see below: ‘the’ would make both objective. The abstract, ‘  through faith ,’ must be the rendering if the article be omitted)  faith (the dative above expressed the objective instrumental condition of your salvation, this  διὰ the subjective medial condition: it has been effected by grace and apprehended by faith):  and this (not  your faith , as Chrys. οὐδὲ ἡ πίστις , φησίν , ἐξ ὑμῶν : so Thdrt., al., Corn.-a-Iap., Beza, Est., Grot., Beng., all.; this is precluded (not by the gender of τοῦτο , but) by the manifestly parallel clauses οὐκ ἐξ ὑμῶν and οὐκ ἐξ ἔργων , of which the latter would be irrelevant as asserted of πίστις , and the reference of Eph 2:9 must therefore be changed: but, as Calv., Calov., Rück., Harl., Olsh., Mey., De W., Stier, al., ‘your salvation;’ τὸ σεσωσμένοι εἶναι , as Ellic.)  not of yourselves , GOD’S (emphatic)  is the gift (not, as E. V. ‘  it is the gift of God ’ ( θεοῦ δῶρον ), τὸ δῶρον , viz. of your salvation: so that the expression is pregnant q. d., ‘  but it is a gift, and that gift is God’s .’ There is no occasion, as Lachm., Harl., and De W., to parenthesize these words: they form a contrast to οὐκ ἐξ ὑμ ., and a quasi-parallel clause to ἵνα μή τις καυχήσ . below):  not of works (for ἐξ ἔργων , see on Romans 3:4 , and Gal 2:16 ),  that no man should boast (on the proposition implied, see on Romans 4:2 .  ἵνα , has in matter of fact its strictest telic sense. With God, results are all purposed; it need not be understood, when we predicate of Him a purpose in this manner, that it was His  main or  leading aim; but it was one of those things included in His scheme, which ranked among His purposes).