 12 .]  that ye were (the  ὅτι takes up again the ὅτι in Ephesians 2:11 , after the relative clause, and the  τῷ κ  .   ἐκείνῳ takes up the ποτέ there. It is not a broken construction, but only a repetition; ‘that, I say.…’)  at that time (when ye were, not τὰ ἔθνη ἐν σαρκί , which ye are now, and which is carefully divided from ποτέ above by ὑμεῖς , but that which is implied in ποτέ , heathens, before your conversion to Christ. On the dative of time without the preposition ἐν , see Kühner, vol. ii. § 569, and remarks on its difference from the genitive and accusative)  without Christ (separate from, having no part in, the promised Messiah. That this is the sense, is evident from Ephesians 2:13 : see below. The words  χωρ  .   χρ  . are not a defining clause to ἦτε ἀπηλ λοτρ ., as Lachmann points them, and De W. and Eadie render: ‘that ye were, being without Christ, &c.’ The arrangement would thus be harsh and clumsy beyond all precedent)  alienated from ( οὐκ εἶπε , κεχωρισμένοι … πολλὴ τῶν ῥημάτων ἡ ἔμφασις , πολὺν δεικνῦσα τὸν χωρισμόν . ἐπεὶ καὶ Ἰσραηλῖται τῆς πολιτείας ἦσαν ἐκτός , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ ὡς ἀλλότριοι ἀλλ ʼ ὡς ῥᾴθυμοι , κ . τῶν διαθηκῶν ἐξέπεσον , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχ ὡς ξένοι , ἀλλ ὡς ἀνάξιοι , Chr. Gentiles and Jews were once united in the hope of redemption this was constituted, on the apostasy of the nations, into a definite πολιτεία for the Jews, from which and its blessings the Gentiles were alienated)  the commonwealth ( πολιτεία is both  polity, state (objective), τῶν τὴν πόλιν οἰκούντων τάξις τις , Aristot. Polit. iii. 1, and  right of citizenship , ref. Acts. The former appears best here, on account of ἀπηλλοτρ ., which seems to require as its reference an objective external reality)  of Israel (either as synonymous genitive, ‘that commonwealth which is designated by the term Israel,’ or possessive (as Ellic.) ‘that commonwealth which Israel possessed.’ I prefer the former, as more simple)  and strangers from (so Soph. Œd. Tyr. 219, ἃ ʼ γὼ ξένος μὲν τοῦ λόγου τοῦδ ʼ ἐξερῶ , ξένος δὲ τοῦ πραχθέντος . The genitive may be explained either 1) as one of the quality, as in μέλεος ἥβης , εὐδαίμων μοίρας , or as 2) one of privation = negative of possession, ξένος being resolved into οὐ μέτοχος . This latter is perhaps the best. See Bernhardy, p. 171 ff.; Kühner, ii. 163)  the covenants of the promise ( τίνες ἦσαν αἱ δ . τ . ἐπ .; “ Σοὶ κ . τῷ σπέρματί σου δώσω τ . γῆν ταύτην ,” κ . ὅσα ἕτερα ἐπηγγείλατο , Chrys. See note on Romans 9:4 . The meaning here, as there, has been mistaken (Calv. al.) to be ‘the two tables of the law.’ Cf. Wis 18:22 ; Sir 44:11 ),  not having (  μή on account of the subjective colouring given to the whole sentence by μνημονεύετε . So in ἀπιστοῦντες αὐτὸν μὴ ἥξειν , Thuc. ii. 101: ὃ ἂν γνῶσι δυνάμενον μὲν χάριν ἀποδιδόναι , μὴ ἀποδιδόντα δέ , Xen. Cyr. i. 2. 7: ψυχὴν σκοπῶν φιλόσοφόν τε καὶ μή , Plato, Rep. p. 486 B. See Winer, § 55. 5; Kühner, ii. § 715. 3)  hope (not ‘covenanted hope’ ( τὴν ἐλπ .), but ‘hope’ at all. The emphatic position of  ἐλπίδα makes this the more necessary)  and without God (this is the best rendering, as it leaves ἄθεος in its latitude of meaning. It may be taken either 1) actively, ‘  denying God,’ ‘atheist ,’ 2) in a neuter sense (see Ellic.) ‘  ignorant of God ’ ( ἔρημοι θεογνωσίας , Thdrt.: see Galatians 4:8 ; 1 Thessalonians 4:5 , where the Gentiles are described as οὐκ εἰδότες τ . θεόν ), or 3) passively, ‘  forsaken of God ’ (so Soph. Œd. Tyr. 661, ἐπεὶ  ἄθεος ἄφιλος ὅ τι πύματον ὀλοίμαν : ib. 254, τῆσδέ τε γῆς , ὧδ ʼ ἀκάρπως  κἀθέως ἐφθαρμένης ). This latter meaning is best here, on account of the passive character of the other descriptive clauses) in the  world (contrast to the πολιτεία τοῦ Ἰσρ . “He subjoins to the godless ‘How,’ the godless ‘Where,’ ” Mey. Olsh. understands, ‘in this wicked world, in which we have so much need of divine guidance,’ which is hardly in the simple words: Rück., ‘in God’s world,’ contrast to ἄθεοι . These words must not be separated, as some, from ἄθεοι ).