 14 .]  For He (there certainly is an emphasis on  αὐτός , as Rück., Harl., Mey., Ellic., Eadie, ‘He and none other.’ This can hardly be denied by any one who will read through the whole from Ephesians 2:11 , and mark the repetitions, χριστοῦ χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ τοῦ χριστοῦ , which this αὐτός takes up)  is our peace (not by metonymy for εἰρηνοποιός , but in the widest and most literal sense, our peace. He did not make our peace and then retire, leaving us to enjoy that peace, but is Himself its medium and its substance; His making both one was no external reconciliation, but the taking both, their common nature, on and into Himself, see Ephesians 2:15 . Bear in mind the multitude of prophetic passages which connect peace with Him, Isaiah 9:5-6 ; Isaiah 52:7 ; Isaiah 53:5 ; Isaiah 57:19 ; Micah 5:5 ; Haggai 2:9 ; Zechariah 9:10 : also Luke 2:14 ; John 14:27 ; John 20:19 ; John 20:21 ; John 20:26 . And notice that already the complex idea of the whole verse, that of uniting both Jews and Gentiles in one reconciliation to God, begins to appear: for He is our Peace, not only as reconciling Jew to Gentile, not as bringing the far-off Gentile near  to the Jew, but as reconciling both, united, to God; as bringing the far-off Gentile, and the near Jew, both into peace with God. For want of observing this the sense has been much obscured: see below)  who made (specification,  how He is our peace. Better ‘made,’ than ‘  hath made :’ the latter is true, but it is the historic fact which is here brought out)  both (Jews and Gentiles; not ‘  man and God,’ as Stier: cf. Ephesians 2:15-16 . Neuter, as abstract, both things, both elements)  one, and (epexegetic ‘namely, in that he’)  threw down the middle wall of the fence (i.e. the middle wall which belonged to was a necessary part of the carrying out of the φραγμός . The primary allusion seems to be to the rending of the veil at the crucifixion: not that that veil separated Jew and Gentile, but that it, the chief symbol of separation from God, included in its removal the admission to Him of that one body into which Christ made Jew and Gentile. This complex idea is before the Apostle throughout the sentence: and necessarily; for the reconciliation which Christ effected between Jew and Gentile was in fact only a subordinate step of the great reconciliation of both to God, which He effected by His sacrifice in the flesh, and in speaking of one he speaks of the other also. The  φραγμός , from what has been said above, is more general in sense than the  μεσότοιχον ; is in fact the whole arrangement, of which that was but an instrument the separation itself, consequent on a system of separation: it = therefore the whole legal system, ceremonial and moral, which made the whole separation, of Jew from Gentile, and in the background, of both from God),  the enmity (not, of Jew and Gentile: so strong a term is not justified as applying to their separation, nor does such a reference satisfy Ephesians 2:16 , see there; but, the enmity in which both were involved against. God, see Romans 8:7 .  τὴν ἔχθ  . is in apposition with  τὸ μεσότ  . This enmity was the real cause of separation from God, and in being so, was the inclusive, mediate cause of the separation between Jew and Gentile. Christ, by abolishing the first, abolished the other also: see below)  in His flesh (to be joined not with  καταργήσας , as most Commentators, which is very harsh, breaking the parallelism, and making the instrumental predication precede the verb, which is not the character of this passage; but with  λύσας . Christ destroyed the μεσ ., i.e. the ἔχθρα , in, or by, His flesh; see on Ephesians 2:16 , where the same idea is nearly repeated. It was in His crucified flesh, which was ἐν ὁμοιώματι σαρκὸς ἁμαρτίας , that He slew this enmity. The rendering, ‘the enmity which was in His flesh,’ would certainly in this case require the specifying article τήν , besides being very questionable in sense),  having done away the law of decretory commandments (this law was the φραγμός , the great exponent of the ἔχθρα . Its specific nature was that it consisted in commandments, decretorily or dogmatically expressed; in ἐντολαὶ - ἐν - δόγμασιν . So that we do not require  τὸν ἐν δόγ . or  τῶν ἐν δόγ  . This law, moral and ceremonial, its decalogue, its ordinances, its rites, was entirely done away in and by the death of Christ. See Colossians 2:13-15 , notes. And the end of that κατάργησις was)  that He might create the two (Jew and Gentile)  in Him (it is somewhat difficult to decide between  ἑαυτῷ and  αὐτῷ . On the one hand, αὐτῷ is the  harder reading: on the other, we have the constant confusion of αὐτ ., αὑτ ., and ἑαυτ ., complicating the question. Whichever be read, the reference clearly must be to Christ, which, with αὐτῷ , is, to say the least, a harsh recurrence to the αὐτός of Eph 2:14 )  into one new man (observe, not that He might reconcile the two  to each other only, nor is the Apostle speaking merely of any such reconciliation: but that He might incorporate the two, reconciled in Him to God, into one  new man, the old man to which both belonged, the enemy of God, having been slain in His flesh on the Cross. Observe, too, ONE new man: we are all in God’s sight but one in Christ, as we are but one in Adam),  making peace (not, between Jew and Gentile: He is ἡ εἰρήνη ἡμῶν , of us all: see below on Eph 2:17 ),  and (parallel with the former purpose: not ‘  second purpose’ (Ellic., De W.), which yet must thus be the  first . The καί is in fact just as in Eph 2:14 )  might reconcile again (most likely this is implied in the  ἀπο  . We have it only in Colossians 1:20-21 , where the same sense, of  reinstating in the divine favour, seems to be intended)  both of us in one body (not His own human body, as Chrys. (who however seems to waver, cf. ἕως ἂν μένωμεν ἐν τῷ σώματι τοῦ χριστοῦ , between this and His mystical body) al. but the Church, cf. the same expression Col 3:15 )  to God (if this had not been here expressed, the  whole reference of the sentence would have been thought to be to the uniting Jews and Gentiles. That it is expressed, now shews that throughout, that union has been thought of only as a subordinate step in a greater reconciliation)  by means of the cross (the cross regarded as the symbol of that which was done on and by it),  having slain the enmity (  ἔχθρα has been taken here to mean the enmity between Jew and Gentile. But see on Ephesians 2:15 : and let us ask here, was this the enmity which Christ slew at His death? Was this the ἔχθρα , the slaying of which brought in the ἀποκατάλλαξις , as this verse implies? Does such a meaning of ἔχθρα at all satisfy the solemnity of the sentence, or of the next two verses? I cannot think so: and must maintain ἔχθρα here (and if here, then in Eph 2:15 also) to be that between man and God, which Christ did slay on the cross, and which being brought to an end, the separation between Jew and Gentile, which was a result of it, was done away. Ellicott, who maintained the above opinion in his 1st edn., now agrees with that here insisted on)  on it (on the cross: compare Colossians 2:15 , notes: not in His body: see above):  and having come, He preached (how? when? Obviously after his death, because by that death the peace was wrought. We seek in vain for any such announcement made by Him in person after his resurrection. But we find a key to the expression in John 14:18 , οὐκ ἀφήσω ὑμᾶς ὀρφανούς · ἔρχομαι πρὸς ὑμᾶς : see also John 14:28 . And this coming was, by his Spirit poured out on the Church. There is an expression of St. Paul’s, singularly parallel with this, and of itself strongly corroborative of the genuineness of our Epistle, in Acts 26:23 , εἰ παθητὸς ὁ χριστός , εἰ πρῶτος ἐξ ἀναστάσεως νεκρῶν φῶς μέλλει καταγγέλλειν τῷ τε λαῷ κ . τοῖς ἔθνεσιν . This coming therefore is by His Spirit (see on Eph 2:18 ), and ministers, and ordinances in the Church)  peace to you who were far off, and peace to those (not “  to us ,” for fear of still upholding the distinction where he wishes to merge it altogether)  that were nigh (this  εἰρήνη is plainly then not mere mutual reconciliation, but that far greater peace which was effected by Christ’s death, peace with God, which necessitated the union of the far off and the near in one body in Him. This is shewn especially by the repetition of εἰρήνην . See Isaiah 57:19 .
	Then follows the empowering reason, why He should preach  peace to us both: and it is this Eph 2:18 especially which I maintain cannot be satisfied on the ordinary hypothesis of mere reconciliation between Jew and Gentile being the subject in the former verses. Here clearly the union (not reconciliation, nor is enmity predicated of them) of Jew and Gentile is subordinated to the blessed fact of an access TO GOD having been provided for both through Christ by the Spirit);  for (not epexegetic of εἰρήνην , ‘viz. that …,’ as Baumg.-Crus.)  through Him we have our access (I prefer this intransitive meaning to that maintained by Ellic., al., ‘  introduction ,’ some (Mey.) say, by Christ ( 1Pe 3:18 ) as our προσαγωγεύς (  admissionalis , a word of Oriental courts), not as differing much from it in meaning, but as better representing, both here and in Romans 5:2 , and ch. Ephesians 3:12 , the  repetition , the  present liberty of approach, which ἔχομεν implies, but which ‘  introduction ’ does not give),  both of us, in (united in, 1Co 12:13 )  one Spirit (not ‘  one frame of mind ’ (Anselm, Koppe, al.): the whole structure of the sentence, as compared with any similar one, such as 2 Corinthians 13:13 , will shew what spirit is meant, viz. the Holy Spirit of God, already alluded to in Ephesians 2:17 ; see above. As a parallel, cf. 1Co 12:13 )  to the Father .