14. But—to sum up all in one
	word. 
	put ye on the Lord Jesus
	Christ—in such wise that Christ only may be seen in you (see
	2 Corinthians 3:3; Galatians 3:27;
	Ephesians 4:24). 
	and make no provision—"take
	no forethought." 
	for the flesh, to fulfil the
	lust thereof —"Direct none of your
	attention to the cravings of your corrupt nature, how you may provide
	for their gratification." 
	Note, (1) How gloriously
	adapted is Christianity for human society in all conditions! As it
	makes war directly against no specific forms of government, so it
	directly recommends none. While its holy and benign principles secure
	the ultimate abolition of all iniquitous government, the reverence
	which it teaches for magistracy, under whatever form, as a divine
	institution, secures the loyalty and peaceableness of its disciples,
	amid all the turbulence and distractions of civil society, and makes
	it the highest interest of all states to welcome it within their
	pale, as in this as well as every other sense—"the salt of the
	earth, the light of the world" (Ephesians 4:24- :). (2) Christianity is the grand specific for the
	purification and elevation of all the social relations; inspiring a
	readiness to discharge all obligations, and most of all, implanting
	in its disciples that love which secures all men against injury from
	them, inasmuch as it is the fulfilling of the law (Ephesians 4:24- :). (3) The rapid march of the kingdom of God, the advanced
	stage of it at which we have arrived, and the ever-nearing approach
	of the perfect day—nearer to every believer the longer he
	lives—should quicken all the children of light to redeem the time,
	and, seeing that they look for such things, to be diligent, that they
	may be found of Him in peace, without spot and blameless (Ephesians 4:24- :). (4) In virtue of "the expulsive power of a new and
	more powerful affection," the great secret of persevering
	holiness in all manner of conversation will be found to be "Christ
	IN US, the hope of glory"
	(Colossians 1:27), and Christ ON
	US, as the character in which alone we shall be able to shine
	before men (2 Corinthians 3:8) (2 Corinthians 3:8- :).