 11. ] “We are allowed to bear in mind that the thoroughfares of Eastern cities do not change, and to believe that the ‘straight street,’ which still extends through Damascus in long perspective from the eastern gate, is the street where Ananias spoke to Saul.” (C. and H., p. 115.)
	 οἰκίᾳ Ἰούδα ] The houses of Ananias and Judas are still shewn to travellers. Doubtless they (or at least the former) would long be remembered and pointed out by Christians; but, in the long degradation of Christianity in the East, most such identities must have been lost; and imposture is so easy, that it is hardly possible to cherish the thought that the spots now pointed out can be the true ones. And so of all cases, where we have not unalterable or unaltered data to go on. Still, true as this is, we have sometimes proofs and illustrations unexpectedly appearing, as research goes on, which identify as authentic, sites long pointed out by tradition. So that our way seems to be, to seek for all such elucidations, and meantime to suspend our judgment: but never to lose sight of, nor to treat contemptuously a priori, a local belief.
	 Ταρσέα ] The first place where he is so specified.
	TARSUS was the capital of the province of Cilicia, a large and populous city ( τῆς Κιλ . πόλιν μεγάλην κ . εὐδαίμονα , Xen. Anab. i. 2. 23) in a fruitful plain on the river Cydnus, which flowed through the midst of it (‘Cydnos, Tarsum liberam urbem procul a mari secans.’ Plin. Acts 9:27 . Strabo, xiv. 673. Q. Curt. iii. 5. 1), with a swift stream of remarkably cold water. Strabo speaks most highly of its eminence in schools of philosophy: τοσαύτη τοῖς ἐνθάδε ἀνθρώποις σπουδὴ πρός τε φιλοσοφίαν καὶ τὴν ἄλλην ἐγκύκλιον ἅπασαν παιδείαν γέγονεν , ὥσθ ʼ ὑπερβέβληνται καὶ Ἀθήνας καὶ Ἀλεξάνδρειαν καὶ εἴ τινα ἄλλον τόπον δυνατὸν εἰπεῖν , ἐν ᾧ σχολαὶ καὶ διατριβαὶ τῶν φιλοσόφων καὶ τῶν λόγων γεγόνασι . διαφέρει δὲ τοσοῦτον , ὅτι ἐνταῦθα μὲν οἱ φιλομαθοῦντες ἐπιχώριοι πάντες εἰσί , xiv. 674. He enumerates many learned men who had sprung from it. It was (see Plin. above) an “urbs libera,” i.e. one which, though under Rome, lived under its own laws and chose its own magistrates. This ‘libertas’ was granted to it by Antony (Appian. Civ. Act 9:7 ): and much later we find it a Roman  colony . As a  free city , it had neither the ‘jus coloniarum,’ nor the ‘jus civitatis:’ see ch. Acts 21:39 , also Acts 22:28 , and note. It is now a town with about 20,000 inhabitants, and is described as being a den of poverty, filth, and ruins. There are many remains of the old town (Winer, Realw.).