 7 .] In ch. Acts 22:9 , οἱ δὲ σὺν ἐμοὶ ὄντες τὸ μὲν φῶς ἐθεάσαντο [ κ . ἔμφοβοι ἐγένοντο ], τὴν δὲ φωνὴν οὐκ ἤκουσαν τοῦ λαλοῦντός μοι . Two accounts seemingly (and certainly, in the  letter ) discrepant; but exceedingly instructive when their  spirit is compared, the  fact being this: that the companions of Saul saw and were struck to the ground by the light, but saw οὐδ  ένα ,  no person : that they stood (or ‘were fixed:’ but I should acknowledge the discrepancy here, and recognize the more accurate detail of ch. Acts 26:14 , that they  fell to the ground ) mute, hearing τῆς φωνῆς , the sound of the voice, but not τὴν φωνὴν τοῦ λαλοῦντός μοι , the words spoken and their meaning. Compare John 12:29 , note. (Only no stress must be laid on the difference between the gen. and acc. government of φωνή , nor indeed on the mere  verbal difference of the two expressions; but their spirit considered, in the possible reference which they might have to one and the same fact.)
	Two classes of readers only will stumble at this difference of the forms of narration; those who from enmity to the faith are striving to create or magnify discrepancies, and those who, by the suicidal theory of verbal inspiration, are effectually doing the work of the former. The devout and intelligent student of Scripture will see in such examples a convincing proof of the simple truth of the narrative, the absence of all endeavour to pare away apparent inconsistencies or revise them into conformity, the  bonâ fide work of holy truthful men, bearing each his testimony to things seen and heard under the guidance, not of the spirit of bondage, but of that Spirit of whom it is said, οὗ τὸ πνεῦμα κυρίου , ἐλευθερία .
	I should not too hastily determine that this account  has not come from Saul himself , on account of the above differences: they are no more than might arise in narrations at different times by the same person.
	 εἱστήκεισαν ] It will be well to warn younger readers against an error often found in English Commentators (e.g. Dr. Burton here), that ἕστηκα is  past , and εἱστήκειν  pluperfect in signification, ἕστηκα , ‘I have been standing,’ and εἱστήκεισαν , ‘had been standing.’ This error arises from forgetting the peculiar character of the verb ἵστημι with regard to transitive and intransitive meanings. ἕστηκα is  strictly present , εἱστήκειν  imperfect : as much so as  sto and  stabam . See Matthiæ, § 206. And this accuracy is important here: they had  not ‘been standing,’ but had fallen. See ch. Acts 26:14 , πάντων τε καταπεσόντων ἡμῶν εἰς τὴν γῆν . Wordsw.’s explanation, that εἱστήκεισαν refers to the  standing still of the cavalcade, not to the  standing of Saul’s companions, is untenable: for 1) the ἐνεοί , which qualifies the εἱστήκεισαν , forbids it: and 2) his justifying instances are all aorists, Luke 7:14 ; Luke 8:44 ; ch. Acts 8:38 , not perfect, which surely will not bear this sense of mere arrestation in a course.