2 Corinthians 7:1.  Having, therefore, these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. It is a pity that this verse has been detached from the preceding chapter, of which it forms the natural close; for the “promises” meant are no other than those in 2 Corinthians 7:16, and the exhortation here given is simply a more comprehensive form of the call to separate themselves from all contamination. In the preceding verses it was the contamination of too close an association with unholiness in  others;  here, it is to separate themselves from unholiness in  themselves.  First, from defilement of the  flesh  ("the lusts of the flesh"); next, “defilement of the  spirit.”  The apostle regards the whole nature as thoroughly defiled by sin; and classing himself and his Jewish fellow-converts along with the Gentiles, he says, “Among whom (‘the children of disobedience’) we all once lived in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind (or ‘thoughts’);” calling both kinds of desires alike “the lusts of the flesh” (Ephesians 2:3), or carnality. Also, in Galatians 5:19-21, in a long catalogue of the “works of the flesh” one-half of which are of so spiritual a nature, that if there be “defilement of spirit” at all, these must belong to it there, too, they are called “lusts of the flesh.” But whereas there, it is said, “They that are Christ’s  have  crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts” (Galatians 5:24), in virtue of their union with Christ; here the exhortation is to continue doing this. And there is no inconsistency. In principle, it is done at once, when if “any man is in Christ, he is a new creature,” the death-blow being then given to the reigning power of sin in the heart; but this seed has to be gradually developed into universal holiness. Accordingly it is added,  perfecting holiness in the fear of God (1 Peter 1:15-16).
	What had been merely alluded to in chap. 2 Corinthians 2:12-14,   is   here explained in touching detail.
	 