 13 .] The utmost care is required, in interpreting this verse, to ascertain the probable meaning of the words in reference to the context. On the right appreciation of this depends the question, whether they are to be taken in their strict meaning, and simple grammatical sense, or to be forced to some possible but far-fetched rendering. It has been generally, as far as I know by all the Commentators, assumed that  ὑποτύπωσιν ἔχε = ἔχε (= κάτεχε , see reff.) τὴν ὑποτύπωσιν , and that then ὑγιαινόντων λόγων is to be taken as a subject. gen. after ὑποτύπ .; i.e. as in E. V., ‘  Hold fast the form of sound words :’ thus making the exhortation perfectly general, equivalent in fact to the following one in 2 Timothy 1:14 . But to this there are several objections. The want of the art. before ὑποτύπωσιν might indeed be got over: a definite word emphatically prefixed to its verb is frequently anarthrous. But (1) this sense of ἔχε can hardly be maintained in its present unemphatic position. The sense is found (or something approaching to it, for it would require to be stronger here than in either place) in the reff.: but in both, the verb  precedes the substantive, as indeed always throughout the N. T. where any stress whatever is to be laid on it. Cf., for some examples of both arrangements, (a) ἔχω preceding, with more or less reference to its sense of having or holding, as a matter to be taken into account, Matthew 5:23 ; Matthew 8:9 ║ [1] , Matthew 11:15 [2] (always thus), al., Mark 9:50 ; Mark 10:21 ; Mark 11:22 , al., Luke 3:11 ; Luke 8:6 ; Luke 11:5 , al., John 3:15-16 ; John 3:29 ; John 3:36 , al., Acts 2:44 ; Acts 2:47 ; Acts 9:14 ; Acts 9:31 , &c., Romans 2:20 ; Romans 4:2 ; Romans 6:22 (cf. Rom 6:21 ), Romans 12:6 , &c.: and (b) ἔχω following its substantive, with always the stress on the subst., and not on the verb, Matthew 3:14 ; Matthew 5:46 ; Matthew 8:20 , &c., Mark 3:22 ; Mark 3:26 ; Mark 8:14-18 , &c., Luke 3:8 ; Luke 8:13 , &c., John 2:3 ; John 4:17 (instances of  both arrangements, and each in full significance), &c., Romans 14:22 , &c. I cannot therefore assent to the view, which would give ἔχε the chief emphasis in the sentence, but must reserve that emphasis for ὑποτύπωσιν . Then (2) there is an objection to taking ὑποτύπωσιν as ‘  a form ’ with a subjective genitive, a ‘  form consisting of sound words .’ The word is once only used (ref.) elsewhere, and that in these Epistles, as a ‘pattern,’ ‘specimen:’ and there can hardly be a doubt that so uncommon a word must be taken, as again used by the same writer, in the same meaning, unless the context manifestly point to another. (3) A third objection, not so important as the other two, but still a valid one, will be that according to the usual rendering, the relative  ὧν would much more naturally be ἥν , referring as it ought to do in that case to ὑποτύπωσιν , the object of ἔχε , not to the λόγοι of which that ὑποτύπωσις was composed. This being so, we shall have the rendering so far,  Have (take)  an ensample of (the)  healthy words which thou heardest of me in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus . Then two questions arise for us: to what (1) does  ὑποτύπωσιν ἔχε refer? I answer, to the saying immediately preceding, οἶδα γὰρ κ . τ . λ . This was one of those πιστοὶ λόγοι or ὑγιαίνοντες λόγοι , of which we hear so often in these Epistles; one which, in his timidity, Timotheus was perhaps in danger of forgetting, and of which therefore the Apostle reminds him, and bids him take it as a specimen or pattern of those sound words which had been committed to him by his father in the faith. To what (2) do the words  ἐν πίστει κ  .   ἀγάπῃ τῇ ἐν χρ  .   Ἰησ  . refer? Certainly not, as Thdrt., to παρ ʼ ἐμοῦ , taking ἐν as = περὶ ( τὴν παρ ʼ ἐμοῦ περὶ πίστεως κ . ἀγάπης γεγενημένην διδασκαλίαν ): not, again, to ἔχε , to which in our understanding of ὑποτύπωσιν ἔχε , such a qualification would be altogether inapplicable: but to ἤκουσας , reminding Timotheus of the readiness of belief, and warmth of affection, with which he had at first received the wholesome words from the mouth of the Apostle, and thus tacitly reproaching him for his present want of growth in that faith and love; q. d. Let me in thus speaking, ‘I know whom I have believed &c.,’ call to thy mind, by one example, those faithful sayings, those words of spiritual health, which thou once heardest with such receptivity and ardour as a Christian believer. (I am bound to add, that Chrys., having too much sense of the import of the Greek arrangement, does not fall into the ordinary mistake of making ἔχε = κάτεχε and emphatic, but, as will be seen, understands it, “From the ὑγιαίνοντες λόγοι which I delivered thee, take thine examples and maxims on every subject.” But that would rather require ὑγιαίνοντας λόγους οὓς … Ι subjoin his words; καθάπερ ἐπὶ τῶν ζωγράφων ἐνετυπωσάμην , φησίν , εἰκόνα σοι τῆς ἀρετῆς , καὶ τῶν τῷ θεῷ δοκούντων ( εὐδοκούντων ?) ἁπάντων , ὥσπερ τινὰ κανόνα κ . ἀρχέτυπον κ . ὅρους καταβαλὼν εἰς τὴν σὴν ψυχήν . ταῦτα οὖν ἔχε , κἂν περὶ πίστεως , κἂν περὶ ἀγάπης , κἂν περὶ σωφρονισμοῦ δέῃ τὶ βουλεύσασθαι , ἐκεῖθεν λάμβανε τὰ παραδείγματα . Ellic.’s note seems not altogether perspicuous. He does not enter into the difficulty: and his “not for κάτεχε , though somewhat approaching it in meaning,” leaves the student under some doubt as to whether he does or does not agree with the E. V.) Then as following on this single example, the whole glorious deposit is solemnly committed to his care: being a servant of One who will keep that which  we have entrusted to HIM, do thou in thy turn keep that which HE, by my means, has entrusted to  thee :
	 [1]║ When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [2] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .