 8 .]  Be not then (seeing that God gave us such a Spirit, not the other)  ashamed of (for construction see reff. I cannot see, with Ellic., that the aor. subjunc. with μή , ‘ne te pudeat unquam,’ as Leo, implies in matter of fact that “Timothy had as yet evinced no such feeling.” Surely, granting that such is the primary constructional inference from the words, it would be just in keeping with the delicate tact of the Apostle, to use such form of admonition, when in fact the blame had been already partly incurred. See note on 2Ti 1:1 )  the testimony of our Lord (i.e. the testimony which thou art to give concerning our Lord, gen. objective: not ‘  the testimony which He bore ,’ gen. subjective, as Corn.-a-lap., al., nor, as Chrys. (apparently), ‘  the martyrdom of our Lord ,’ nor must we, with Mack, lay stress on κυρίου , and understand the μαρτύριον to be especially this, that Jesus  is the Lord . The  ἡμῶν is added, hardly for the reason Bengel gives, ‘hunc opponit Cæsari, quem sui sic appellabant,’ which would hardly have been thus expressed, requiring more prominence to be given to ἡμῶν , but because, being about to introduce  himself , he binds by this word Timotheus and himself together),  nor of me His prisoner (I would hardly say, with De W., Huther, al., that this refers only to the services which the Apostle expected from Timotheus in coming to him at Rome: such thought may have been in his mind, and may have mingled with his motive in making the exhortation: but I believe the main reference to be to his duty as upholding St. Paul and his teaching in the face of personal danger and persecution. It is impossible to deny that the above personal reference does enter again and again: but I cannot believe it to be more than secondary. On the expression, τὸν δέσμιον αὐτοῦ , see Eph 3:1 note: the gen. implies not possession, but the reason for which he was imprisoned, cf. Philemon 1:13 , δεσμοὶ τοῦ εὐαγγελίου ),  but suffer hardship with me for the Gospel (this is the meaning (ref.), and not ‘  suffer hardship together with the Gospel ,’ as Thdrt. ( τῶν κηρύκων τὸ πάθος τοῦ εὐαγγελίου προσηγόρευσε πάθος ), Calv. (?), Grot. (‘ προσωποποιεῖ evangelium, eique sensum tribuit, quomodo alibi legi, morti, peccato’): for St. Paul, speaking of his own bonds, ch. 2 Timothy 2:9 , says, ὁ λόγος τοῦ θεοῦ οὐ δέδεται . This συγκακοπάθησον extends the sphere of his fellow-suffering with the Apostle beyond his mere visiting Rome)  according to the power of God (  what power? that which God has manifested in our salvation, as described below (gen. subj.), or that which God imparts to us (gen. obj.),  God’s power , or  the power which we get from God? On all grounds, the former seems to me the juster and worthier sense: the former, as implying indeed the latter  à fortiori that God, who by his strong hand and mighty arm has done all this for us, will help us through all trouble incurred for Him. Chrys. gives this meaning very finely: ἐπεὶ φορτικὸν ἦν τὸ εἰπεῖν , κακοπάθησον , πάλιν αὐτὸν παραμυθεῖται λέγων , οὐ κατὰ τὰ ἔργα ἡμῶν · τουτέστι , μὴ τῇ δυνάμει λογίζου τῇ σῇ , ἀλλὰ τῇ τοῦ θεοῦ ταῦτα φέρειν . σὸν μὲν γὰρ τὸ ἑλέσθαι καὶ προθυμηθῆναι , θεοῦ δὲ τὸ κουφίσαι καὶ παῦσαι . εἶτα καὶ τῆς δυνάμεως αὐτοῦ δείκνυσι τὰ τεκμήρια . πῶς ἐσώθης ἐννόει , πῶς ἐκλήθης . ὥσπερ φησὶν ἀλλαχοῦ , κατὰ τὴν ἐνέργειαν αὐτοῦ τὴν ἐνεργουμένην ἐν ἡμῖν . οὕτω τοῦ ποιῆσαι τὸν οὐρανὸν μείζων δύναμις αὕτη ἦν , τὸ πεῖσαι τὴν οἰκουμένην ),  who saved us (all believers: there is no reason for limiting this ἡμᾶς to Paul and Timotheus. It is painful to see such Commentators as De Wette so blinded by a preconceived notion of the spuriousness of the Epistle, as to call this which follows ‘  eine ganz allgemeine überflüssige Erinnerung an die christlichen Heilsthatsachen .’ I need hardly say to the reader who has been hitherto following the course and spirit of the passage, that it is in the strictest coherence, as indeed is shewn by Chrys. above. ‘Be not cowardly nor ashamed of the Gospel, but join me in endurance on its behalf, according to God’s power, who has given such proofs of that power and of its exercise towards us, in saving us, calling us in Christ, destroying death &c., of which endurance I am an example (11 13) which example do thou follow’ (13, 14)),  and called us (this, as indeed the whole context, shews that it is the Father who is spoken of: see note on Gal 1:6 ),  with an holy ( τουτέστιν , ἁγίους ἐξειργάσατο ἁμαρτωλοὺς ὄντας καὶ ἐχθρούς , Chrys.  κλῆσις expressing the  state , rather than merely the summoning into it (as does ‘  vocation ’ also), ἁγία is its quality)  calling (see Ephesians 4:1 ; Ephesians 1:18 ; Romans 8:28-30 , and notes),  not according to (after the measure of, in accordance with)  our works: but according to (after the measure of, in pursuance of)  his own purpose ( τουτέστιν οὐδενὸς ἀναγκάζοντος , οὐδενὸς συμβουλεύοντος , ἀλλ ʼ ἐξ ἰδίας προθέσεως , οἴκοθεν ἐκ τῆς ἀγαθότητος αὐτοῦ ὁρμώμενος , Chrys. οὐκ εἰς τὸν ἡμέτερον ἀποβλέψας βίον , ἀλλὰ διὰ μόνην φιλανθρωπίαν , Thdrt. “Originem tam vocationis nostræ quam totius salutis designat: non enim erant nobis opera quibus Deum præveniremus: sed totum a gratuito ejus proposito et electione pendet.” Calv.),  and (according to)  the grace which was given to us (this expression, which properly belongs only to an  actual imparting , is used, because, as De W., that which God determines in Eternity, is as good as already accomplished in time. No weakening of δοθεῖσαν into  destinatam must be thought of)  in Christ Jesus (as its element and condition, see Ephesians 1:4 ; Eph 3:11 )  before the periods of ages (see reff.; τουτέστιν , ἀναρχῶς , Chrys. It is hardly possible in the presence of Scripture analogy to take the expression πρὸ χρόνων αἰωνίων as ‘meaning (? Conyb.) the Jewish dispensation:’ still less, as Dr. Burton, that ‘the scheme of redemption was arranged by God immediately after the fall, before any ages or dispensations.’ Even Calvin’s interpretation, ‘perpetuam annorum seriem a mundo condito,’ fails to reach the full meaning. In the parallel, Romans 16:25 , the mystery of redemption is described as having been χρόνοις αἰωνίοις σεσιγημένον , which obviously includes ages previous to the καταβολὴ κόσμου as well as after it; see Ephesians 3:11 , compared with 2 Timothy 1:4 ; 1Co 2:7 ),  but (contrast to the concealment from eternity in the manifestation in time)  manifested now ( νυνὶ τοῖς προορισθεῖσι τὸ πέρας ἐπέθηκε , Thdrt. See Colossians 1:26 ; Tit 1:3 )  by the appearing (in the flesh: here only used thus, see reff.: but not referring to the birth only: ‘His whole manifestation’)  of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who abolished (‘  when he made of none effect ,’ Ellic., objecting to my rendering, as confounding an anarthrous participle with one preceded by the article. But,  pace tanti viri , and recognizing to the full the distinction, I must hold that the slightly ratiocinative force of the anarthrous participle is more accurately represented by “who abolished,” than by introducing the temporal element contained in “when He.” The bald literal rendering, ‘  abolishing (not, ‘  having abolished ;’ the aor. participles are synchronous throughout)  as He did ,’ is most nearly approached by ‘  who abolished :’ and it is an approximation to the sense, not grammatical purism, which must be our object) (indeed) death (cf. especially 1 Corinthians 15:26 . By the death of Christ, Death has lost his sting, and is henceforth of no more account: consequently the mere act of natural death is evermore treated by the Lord Himself and his Apostles as of no account: cf. John 11:26 ; Romans 8:2 ; Romans 8:38 ; 1 Corinthians 15:55 ; Hebrews 2:14 ; and its actual and total abolition foretold, Revelation 21:4 .  θάνατον must be kept here to its literal sense, and its spiritual only so far understood as involved in the other. The delivering from the  fear of death is manifestly not to the purpose, even did διὰ τοῦ εὐαγγ . belong to both participles. Notice  τὸν θάνατον . As Bengel says, ‘Articulus notanter positus.’ As if he had said, ‘Orcum illum.’ ζωήν and ἀφθαρσίαν below have no articles),  but (contrast to the gloom involved in θάνατον )  brought to light (threw light upon, see ref. 1 Cor., and thus made visible what was before hidden: ἀντὶ τοῦ προμηνύσαντος , Thdrt.)  life (i.e. the new and glorious life of the Spirit, begun here below and enduring for ever: the only life worthy of being so called)  and incorruptibility (immortality of the new life, not merely of the risen body: that is not in question here, but is, though a glorious yet only a secondary consequence of this ἀφθαρσία ; see Rom 8:11 )  by means of the (preaching of the)  Gospel (which makes these glorious things known to men. These words are better taken as belonging only to φωτ . δὲ ζω . κ . ἀφθ ., not to καταργ . μὲν τὸν θάν . For this former is an absolute act of Christ, the latter a manifestation to those who see it), for  which (viz. the εὐαγγέλιον , the publication of this good news to men)  I was appointed a herald, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles (see the same expression, and note, in 1 Timothy 2:7 . The connexion in which he here introduces himself is noticed above, on 2 Timothy 1:8 . It is to bring in his own example and endurance in sufferings, and grounds of trust, for a pattern to Timotheus):  on which account (viz. because Ι ἐτέθην , as above)  I also (besides doing the active work of such a mission. Or καί may be taken with ταῦτα , as Ellic., ‘even these things’)  am suffering these things (viz. the things implied in τὸν δέσμιον αὐτοῦ , 2 Timothy 1:8 , and further specified by way of explanation and encouragement to Timotheus below, 2Ti 1:15 ):  but I am not ashamed (cf. μὴ ἐπαισχυνθῇς , 2Ti 1:8 ),  for I know whom I have trusted (hardly to be formally expressed so strongly as De W. ‘  in whom I have put my trust ’ ( εἰς ὃν πεπ .), though the meaning, in the spiritual explanation, is virtually the same: the metaphor here is that of a pledge deposited, and the depositor  trusting the depositary: and it is best to keep to the figure. The ᾧ refers to God, as Titus 3:8 ; Act 27:25 ?),  and am persuaded that He is able (reff. as used of God)  to keep my deposit (how are the words to be taken, and what is meant by them? Does  μου import, the deposit which  He has entrusted to  me , or the deposit which  I have entrusted to  Him? Let us consider the latter first. In this case  μου is the gen. subjective. Now what is there which the Apostle can be said to have entrusted to God? Some say, (a) his  eternal reward , the crown  laid up for him, ch. 2 Timothy 4:8 ; so Thl., Beza, Calov., Wolf (‘hoc est κληρονομία quæ dicitur τετηρημένη ἐν οὐρανοῖς , 1 Peter 1:4 ; habes hic τὸ φυλάσσειν ’): but then we should have this reward represented as a matter not of God’s free grace, but of his own, delivered to God to keep: (b) his  soul , as in 1 Peter 4:19 ; Luke 23:46 ; so Grot. (‘Deus apud nos deponit verbum suum: nos apud Deum deponimus spiritum nostrum’), Beng. (‘anima nostra: nos ipsi, et portio nostra cœlestis. Paulus, decessui proximus, duo deposita habebat: alterum Domino, alterum Timotheo committendum’), Conyb. and others (see this treated below): (c) his  salvation , so Ambr., Calv., Huther, al. (see ib.): (d) the believers who had been converted by his means, as Chrys. and Thl. (alt.), and as in the Ep. ad Heron. of the Pseudo-Ignatius, 7, p. 916, φύλαξόν μου τὴν παραθήκην · … παρατίθημί σοι τὴν ἐκκλησίαν Ἀντιοχέων , which hardly needs refutation, as altogether unsupported by the context. Then, under the former head, which would make  μου a gen. possessive, we have the following meanings assigned: (e) the  Holy Spirit , as Thdrt. ( ὅσην παρέσχε μοι τοῦ πνεύματος χάριν ἀκήρατον φυλάξει μέχρι τῆς αὐτοῦ παρουσίας ): (f)  the faith, and its proclamation to the world . So Chrys. ( τί ἐστι παρακαταθήκη ; ἡ πίστις , τὸ κήρυγμα : but only as an alternative, see above), Ellic.; not Grot. as De W. see above: (g) the  apostolic office (Corn.-a-lap., Heinrichs, De W., al.) which the Apostle regarded as a thing entrusted to him, a stewardship, 1 Corinthians 9:17 ; (h) the  faithful who had been converted by him, in the (alternative in Chrys. and Thl.) view of their having been  committed to him by Christ : (i)  his own soul , as entrusted to him by God, as Bretschneider, al., after Josephus, B. J. iii. 8. 5, where speaking against suicide, he says, εἰλήφαμεν παρ ʼ αὐτοῦ τὸ εἶναι … ψυχὴ ἀθάνατος ἀεί , καὶ θεοῦ μοῖρα τοῖς σώμασιν ἐνοικίζεται . εἶτα ἂν μὲν ἀφανίσῃ τις ἀνθρώπου παρακαταθήκην , ἢ διάθηται κακῶς , πονηρὸς εἶναι δοκεῖ καὶ ἄπιστος . And even more strikingly Philo, quis rerum div. hæres, 26, vol. i. p. 491: τοῦτ ʼ ἔπαινός ἐστι τοῦ σπουδαίου , τὴν ἱερὰν ἣν ἔλαβε παρακαταθήκην , ψυχῆς , αἰσθήσεως , λόγου , θείας σοφίας , ἀνθρωπίνης ἐπιστήμης , καθαρῶς καὶ ἀδόλως , μὴ ἑαυτῷ , μόνῳ δὲ τῷ πεπιστευκότι φυλάξαντος . And Hermas Pastor, ii. 3, p. 918: “qui ergo mentiuntur, abnegant Dominum, non reddentes Domino depositum, quod acceperunt.” On all these, and this view of the παραθήκη generally, I may remark, that we may fairly be guided by the same words παραθήκην φύλαξον in 2Ti 1:14 as to their sense here. And from this consideration I deduce an inference precisely the contrary to that of De Wette. He argues from it, that παραθήκη must necessarily have the same meaning in both places, without reference to the verb with which it is joined: and consequently that because in 2Ti 1:14 it signifies a matter entrusted to Timotheus, therefore here it must signify a matter entrusted to St. Paul. But this surely is a very lax and careless way of reasoning. The analogy between the two verses, if good for any thing, goes farther than this. As, in 2 Timothy 1:14 , παραθήκην φυλάξαι is said of the subject of the sentence, viz. Timotheus, keeping a deposit entrusted to him, so here παραθήκην φυλάξαι must be said of the subject of the sentence, viz. God, keeping a deposit entrusted to Him. Otherwise, while keeping the mere word  παραθήκη to the same formal meaning in both places, we shall, most harshly and unnaturally, be requiring the phrase παραθήκην  φυλάξαι to bear, in two almost consecutive verses, two totally different meanings. The analogy therefore of 2 Timothy 1:14 , which De W. uses so abundantly for his view, makes, if thoroughly considered, entirely against it, and in fact necessitates the adoption of the first alternative, viz. the objective genitive, and the  deposit committed by the Apostle to God . And when we enquire what this deposit was, we have the reply, I conceive, in the previous words, ᾧ πεπίστευκα (see this especially shewn in the quotation from Philo above, where the πεπιστευκώς is  God , not man). He had entrusted HIMSELF, body, soul, and spirit, to the keeping of his heavenly Father, and lay safe in his hands, confident of His abiding and effectual care. A strong confirmation of this view is gained, notwithstanding what Ellic. says of the moral reference there, and not here: for the parallel is to be sought not between φυλάξαι and ἁγιάσαι , but between φυλάξαι and τηρῆσαι , which is a very close one, from 1 Thessalonians 5:23 , αὐτὺς δὲ ὁ θεὸς τῆς εἰρήνης ἁγιάσαι ὑμᾶς ὁλοτελεῖς , καὶ ὁλόκληρον ὑμῶν τὸ πνεῦμα καὶ ἡ ψυχὴ καὶ τὸ σῶμα ἀμέμπτως ἐν τῇ παρουσίᾳ τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ τηρηθείη )  for (with reference to, as an object; ‘against,’ as we say, in a temporal sense: not simply ‘  until ’)  that day (viz. the day of the παρουσία ; see reff., and cf. especially ch. 2Ti 4:8 ).