 15 18 .]  Notices of the defective adherence of certain brethren . These notices are intimately connected with what has preceded. He has held up to Timotheus, as an example, his own boldness and constancy: and has given him a sample of the faithful sayings which ruled his own conduct, in 2 Timothy 1:12 . He proceeds to speak of a few of the discouragements under which in this confidence he was bearing up: and, affectionate gratitude prompting him, and at the same time by way of an example of fidelity to Timotheus, he dilates on the exception to the general dereliction of him, which had been furnished by Onesiphorus.  Thou knowest this, that all who are in Asia (it docs not follow, as Chrys., that εἰκὸς ἦν , ἐν Ῥώμῃ εἶναι πολλοὺς τότε τῶν ἀπὸ τῶν Ἀσίας μερῶν : this would rather require οἱ ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀσίας : but he uses the expression with reference to him to whom he was writing, who was in Asia)  repudiated me not as E. V., ‘  are turned away from mo’ (perf.): the act referred to took place at a stated time, and from what follows, that time appears to have been on occasion of a visit to Rome. They were ashamed of Paul the prisoner, and did not seek him out, see ch. 2 Timothy 4:16 : ἔφυγον τοῦ ἀποστόλου τὴν συνουσίαν διὰ τὸ Νέρωνος δέος , Thdrt.: but perhaps not so much from this motive, as from the one hinted at in the praise of Onesiphorus below. The  πάντες must of course apply to all of whom the Apostle  had had trial (and not even those without exception, 2Ti 1:16-18 ): the E. V. gives the idea, that a  general apostasy of all in Asia from St. Paul had taken place. On ASIA, i.e. the proconsular Asia, see note, Act 16:6 ),  of whom is ( ἐστιν is hardly to be pressed as indicating that  at the present moment Phygelus and Hermogenes were in Rome and were shunning him: it merely includes them in the class just mentioned)  Phygelus and Hermogenes (why their names are specially brought forward, does not appear. Suetonius, Domit. c. 10, mentions a certain Hermogenes of Tarsus, who was put to death by Domitian ‘propter quasdam in historia figuras’).