 6 14 .]  Exhortation to Timotheus to be firm in the faith, and not to shrink from suffering: enforced (9 11)  by the glorious character of the Gospel, and free mercy of God in it, and (11 13)  by his own example .  For which cause (reff.: viz. because thou hast inherited, didst once possess, and I trust still dost possess, such unfeigned faith; ταῦτα περί σου πεπεισμένος , Thdrt.)  I put thee in mind to stir up (see examples in reff. and in Wetst. The metaphorical use of the word was so common, that there is hardly need to recur to its literal sense. Cf. especially, Iambl, vit. Pythagor. c. 16: ἀπεκάθαιρε τὴν ψυχήν , καὶ ἀνεζωπύρει τὸ θεῖον ἐν αὐτῇ . At the same time it is well to compare, as Chrys. does, 1 Thessalonians 5:19 , τὸ πνεῦμα μὴ σβέννυτε . He adds, ἐν ἡμῖν γάρ ἐστι καὶ σβέσι καὶ ἀνάψαι τοῦτο . ὑπὸ μὲν γὰρ ἀκηδίας καὶ ῥᾳθυμίας σβέννυται , ὑπὸ δὲ νήψεως καὶ προσοχῆς διεγείρεται )  the gift of God ( χάρισμα , singular, as combining the whole of the gifts necessary for the ministry in one aggregate ( τὴν χάριν τοῦ πνεύματος , ἢν ἔλαβες εἰς προστασίαν τῆς ἐκκλησίας , Chrys.): not ‘the gift of the Spirit imparted to all believers:’ see 1 Timothy 4:14 , note. Of those ministerial gifts, that of παῤῥησία would be most required in this case, “videtur Timotheus, Paulo diu carens, nonnihil remisisse: certe nunc ad majora stimulatur.” Bengel),  which is in thee by means of the laying on of my hands (these words, especially when compared with 1 Timothy 4:14 , mark the sense of χάρισμα to be as above, and not the general gifts of the Spirit which followed the laying on of hands after baptism. Any apparent discrepancy with that passage, from the Apostle here speaking of the laying on of  his own hands alone , may be removed by regarding the Apostle as chief in the ordination, and the presbytery us his assistants, as is the case with Bishops at the present day. As to the διὰ τῆς ἐπιθ ., we can only appeal, against the Roman-Catholic expositors, e.g. Mack, to the whole spirit of St. Paul’s teaching, as declaring that by such an expression he does not mean that the inward spiritual grace is operated merely and barely by the outward visible sign, but is only asserting, in a mode of speech common to us all, that the solemn dedication by him of Timotheus to God’s work, of which the laying on of his hands was the sign and seal, did bring with it gifts and grace for that work. In this sense and in this alone, the gift came διὰ τῆς ἐπιθέσεως , that laying on being the concentrated and effective sign of the setting apart, and conveying in faith the answer, assumed by faith, to the prayers of the church. That the Apostle had  authority thus to set apart, was necessary to the validity of the act, and thus to the reception of the grace: but the authority did not  convey the grace. I may just add that the ‘indelibility of orders,’ which Mack infers from this passage, is simply and directly refuted by it. If the χάρισμα τὸ ἐν σοί required ἀναζωπυρεῖσθαι , if, as Chrys. above, ἐν ἡμῖν ἐστι καὶ σβέσαι καὶ ἀνάψαι τοῦτο , then plainly it is  not indelible).