 3 5 .]  Thankful declaration of love and anxiety to see him .  I give thanks (reff.)  to God whom I serve from my ancestors (i.e. as Bengel, “majores, innuit, non Abrahamum &c., quos patres, nunquam προγόνους appellat: sed progenitores proximos.” The reason for the profession may perhaps be found in the following mention of the faith of the mother and grandmother of Timotheus, which was already in the Apostle’s mind. We may observe that he does not, as De W. charges him, place on the same ground the Jewish and Christian service of God: but simply asserts what he had before asserted, Acts 23:1 ; Acts 24:14 , that his own service of God had been at all times conscientious and single-hearted, and that he had received it as such from his forefathers)  in pure conscience, how (not ‘  that ,’ as Chrys. ( εὐχαριστῶ τῷ θεῷ ὅτι μέμνημαί σου , φησίν , οὕτω σε φιλῶ ), Luth., E. V., al., nor ‘  when ,’ as Calv. (‘quoties tui recordor in precibus meis, id enim facio continenter, simul etiam de te gratias ago’], nor ‘since,’ ‘  seeing that ,’ as Heyd., Flatt, al., nor ‘  as ,’ as De W., Huther, Ellic., al.: but as in the parallel, Romans 1:9 , the construction is a mixed one between μάρτυς μου ἐστὶν ὁ θεός , ὡς ἀδιάλ . ἔχω , and εὐχαριστῶ ἀδιάλειπτον ἔχων : and hence the meaning ‘how’ must be retained, and with it the involution of construction, which is characteristic of one with whom expressions like these had now become fixed in diction, and liable to be combined without regard to strict logical accuracy)  unceasing I make my mention (not ‘mention’ only, on account of the article, which specifies the μνεία as a thing constantly happening)  concerning thee (so Herod. i. 36, παιδὸς μὲν περὶ τοῦ ἐμοῦ μὴ μνήσθητε ἔτι : Xen. Cyr. i. 6. 12, οὐδ ʼ ὁτιοῦν περὶ τούτου ἑπεμνήσθη : Plato, Laches, p. 181 a, ὅδ ʼ ἐστὶ Σωκράτης , περὶ οὗ ἑκάστοτε μέμνησθε : and Heb 11:22 )  in my prayers, night and day (see Luk 2:37 note: belongs to ἀδιάλειπτ . ἔχω κ . τ . λ ., not to δεήσεσιν , much less, as Mack, al., to the following, for which 1Th 2:9 ; 1Th 3:10 are no precedents, as here such an arrangement would deprive the participle ἐπιποθῶν of its place of emphasis);  longing (  ἐπί , as the prep. in composition so often, seems to mark not intensification, but direction: see Ellic.’s note)  to see thee, remembering thy tears (shed at our parting),  that I may be filled with joy (the expressions in this verse are assurances of the most fervent personal love, strengthened by the proof of such love having been reciprocal. From these he gently and most skilfully passes to a tone of fatherly exhortation and reproof):  having remembrance (the aor. participle may be taken either (1) as de pendent on ἵνα , and the condition of πληρωθῶ , or, which is more probable, (2) as in apposition with ἐπιποθῶν and μεμνημένος )  of the unfeigned faith (which was) (Ellic. objects to ‘  was ,’ and would render ‘  is ;’sec note above on 2 Timothy 1:2 . But I do not see how St. Paul could be said ὑπόμνησιν λαβεῖν of a thing then present. Surely the remembrance is of the time when they parted, and the faith then existing. But the sentence does not require any temporal filling up ‘the unfeigned faith in thee’ is quite enough, and is necessarily thrown into the past by the ὑπόμνησιν λαβών . See more below)  in thee (there is perhaps a slight reproach in this ὑπόμνησιν and τῆς ἐν σοί , as if it were a thing once certain as fact, and as matter of memory, but now only, as below, resting on a πέπεισμαι ὅτι : and in presence of such a possible inference, and of ὑπόμνησιν , I have ventured therefore to render τῆς ἐν σοί , ‘which was in thee,’ viz. at the time of τὰ δὰκρυα , its present existence being only by and by introduced as a confident hope)  such as dwelt first (before it dwelt in thee)  in thy grandmother ( μάμμην τὴν τοῦ πατρὸς ἢ μητρὸς μητέρα , οὐ λέγουσιν οἱ ἀρχαῖοι , ἀλλὰ τίτθην (l. τήθην ). Phryn., p. 133, where see Lobeck’s note. It is thus used, as he shews, by Josephus, Plutarch, Appian, Herodian, &c., and Pollux says (iii. 17), ἡ δὲ πατρὸς ἢ μητρὸς μήτηρ τήθη καὶ μάμμη καὶ μάμμα . But he adduces all the stricter philologists as agreeing with Phrynichus)  Lois (not elsewhere mentioned),  and thy mother Eunice ( Τιμόθεος , υἱὸς γυναικὸς Ἰουδαίας πιστῆς , πατρὸς δὲ Ἕλληνος , Acts 16:1 ; see also ch. 2 Timothy 3:15 . Both these were probably converts on Paul’s former visit to Lystra, Acts 14:6 ff.),  but (the  δέ gives the meaning ‘notwithstanding appearances.’ It is entirely missed by Ellic., and not fairly rendered in the E. V., ‘  and ;’see note below)  I am persuaded that (supply ἐνοικεῖ , not ἐνοικήσει , as Grot., al.)  also in thee (there is undoubtedly a want of entire confidence here expressed; and such a feeling will account for the mention of the faith of his mother and grandmother, to which if he wavered, he was proving untrue. This has been felt by several of the ancient Commentators; e.g. Thdrt., τῇ μετ ʼ εὐφημίας μνήμῃ τῶν προγόνων ὁ θεῖς ἀπόστολος κρατύνει τὴν πίστιν ἐν τῷ μαθητῇ . οὐδὲν γὰρ οὕτως ὀνίνησιν ὡς οἰκεῖον παράδειγμα . καὶ ἐπειδὴ συμβαίνει τινὰς ἐξ εὐσεβῶν γενομένους μὴ ζηλῶσαι τὴν τῶν προγόνων εὐσέβειαν , ἀναγκαίως ἐπήγαγε “ Πέπεισμαι δὲ ὅτι καὶ ἐν σοί .” εἶτα τοῦτο αὐτὸ τῆς παραινέσεως ὑποβάθραν ποιεῖται ).