 Called  to be   an apostle, apparently when first called to discipleship (comp. Acts 26:16-18 with 1 Corinthians 9:1; 1 Corinthians 15:18), though it was not till events put it beyond all doubt that his apostolic calling was publicly recognised. Some prefer to translate ‘a called apostle;’ but in the very next verse where we have the similar phrase, ‘called  to be  saints’ that rendering would be unsuitable.
	 Of Christ Jesus. Once for all we here note that what appears the true order of these words in this verse is the apostle’s usual style; though in such cases the MSS. vary so much that certainty is not always attainable.
	 Through the will of God. Not in contrast with ‘the false apostles’ referred to in 2 Corinthians 11:13; for the same phrase, and in the same connection, is found where no such contrast can be supposed (Ephesians 1:1; Colossians 1:2; 2 Timothy 1:1). Rather, it is to bring to the front at once that official authority which he had to exercise in disposing of the difficult and delicate questions about which the Corinthians had consulted him, and which required to be firmly dealt with.
	 and Sosthenes, our brother [  Gr.  the brother]. Was this that ruler of the synagogue at Corinth who had dragged the apostle himself before Gallio the Roman proconsul, and who, when that official refused to meddle with the case, as beyond his jurisdiction, was set upon and roughly handled by the Jews even before the judgment-seat (Acts 18:12-17)? Some critics think this all but incredible. But since the name of this ‘brother’ occurs nowhere but in an Epistle addressed to these same Corinthians, as of one they were familiar with, and since it is often the most violent opposers of the truth who, when once won to it, become, like our apostle himself, its most zealous promoters, we cannot but judge that they are one and the same person. And was not the example of so notable a convert as ‘Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue,’ going before (Acts 18:8) fitted to make an impression on his successor in office? If we are right in our impression, this Sosthenes would be to our apostle, in a very tender sense, ‘a brother beloved.’
	 