8. a crown—rather as Greek,
	"the crown." The "henceforth" marks the
	decisive moment; he looks to his state in a threefold aspect: (1) The
	past "I have fought"; (2) The immediate present; "there
	is laid up for me." (3) The future "the Lord will give in
	that day" [BENGEL]. 
	crown—a crown, or
	garland, used to be bestowed at the Greek national games on the
	successful competitor in wrestling, running, c. (compare 1 Peter 5:4
Revelation 2:10). 
	of righteousness—The
	reward is in recognition of righteousness wrought in Paul by
	God's Spirit; the crown is prepared for the righteous; but it is a
	crown which consists in righteousness. Righteousness will be its
	own reward (Revelation 22:11).
	Compare Exodus 39:30. A man is
	justified gratuitously by the merits of Christ through faith; and
	when he is so justified God accepts his works and honors them with a
	reward which is not their due, but is given of grace. "So great
	is God's goodness to men that He wills that their works should be
	merits, though they are merely His own gifts" [POPE
	CELESTINE I., Epistles,
	12]. 
	give—Greek,
	"shall award" in righteous requital as "Judge"
	(Acts 17:31; 2 Corinthians 5:10;
	2 Thessalonians 1:6; 2 Thessalonians 1:7).
	in that day—not until
	His appearing (2 Timothy 1:12). The
	partakers of the first resurrection may receive a crown also
	at the last day, and obtain in that general assembly of all
	men, a new award of praise. The favorable sentence passed on
	the "brethren" of the Judge, who sit with Him on His
	throne, is in Matthew 25:40, taken
	for granted as already awarded, when that affecting those who
	benefited them is being passed [BENGEL].
	The former, the elect Church who reign with Christ in the millennium,
	are fewer than the latter. The righteous heavenly Judge stands
	in contrast to the unrighteous earthly judges who condemned Paul. 
	me—individual
	appropriation. Greek, "not only to me." 
	them that love—Greek,
	"have loved, and do love"; habitual love and desire
	for Christ's appearing, which presupposes faith (compare Matthew 25:40- :). Compare the sad contrast, Matthew 25:40- :, "having loved this present world."