2. Preach—literally, "proclaim
	as a herald." The term for the discourses in the synagogue was
	daraschoth; the corresponding Greek term (implying
	dialectial style, dialogue, and discussion, Acts 17:2;
	Acts 17:18; Acts 18:4;
	Acts 18:19) is applied in Acts to
	discourses in the Christian Church. JUSTIN
	MARTYR [Apology,
	2], describes the order of public worship, "On Sunday all meet
	and the writings of the apostles and prophets are read; then the
	president delivers a discourse; after this all stand up and pray;
	then there is offered bread and wine and water; the president
	likewise prays and gives thanks, and the people solemnly assent,
	saying, Amen." The bishops and presbyters had the right and duty
	to preach, but they sometimes called on deacons, and even laymen, to
	preach. EUSEBIUS
	[Ecclesiastical History, 6.19]; in this the Church imitated
	the synagogue (Luke 4:17-22;
	Acts 13:15; Acts 13:16).
	be instant—that is,
	urgent, earnest, in the whole work of the ministry. 
	in season, out of season—that
	is, at all seasons; whether they regard your speaking as seasonable
	or unseasonable. "Just as the fountains, though none may draw
	from them, still flow on; and the rivers, though none drink of them,
	still run; so must we do all on our part in speaking, though none
	give heed to us" [CHRYSOSTOM,
	Homily, 30, vol. 5., p. 221]. I think with CHRYSOSTOM,
	there is included also the idea of times whether seasonable or
	unseasonable to Timothy himself; not merely when convenient,
	but when inconvenient to thee, night as well as day (Acts 13:16- :), in danger as well as in safety, in prison and when doomed
	to death as well as when at large, not only in church, but everywhere
	and on all occasions, whenever and wherever the Lord's work requires
	it. 
	reprove—"convict,"
	"confute." 
	with, c.—Greek,
	"IN (the element
	in which the exhortation ought to have place) all long-suffering
	(2 Timothy 2:24 2 Timothy 2:25;
	2 Timothy 3:10) and teaching";
	compare 2 Timothy 2:24, "apt to
	teach." The Greek for "doctrine" here is
	didache, but in 2 Timothy 3:16,
	didascalia. "Didascalia" is what one
	receives; "didache" is what is communicated
	[TITTMANN].