 5. ] Two singular perversions of this verse have occurred: (1) the Anabaptists use it to authorize the repetition of Christian baptism, whereas it is not  Christian baptism which was repeated, seeing that John’s baptism was  not such , but only the baptism which they now for the first time received; and (2) Beza, Calixtus, Calov., Suicer, Glass., Buddeus, Wolf, and al., wishing to wrest this weapon out of the hands of the Anabaptists, oddly enough suppose this verse to belong still to Paul’s discourse, and to mean, ‘  and the people when they heard him (John),  were baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus .’ This obviously is contrary to fact, historically: and would leave our present narrative in a singular state: for Paul, having treated their baptism as  insufficient , would thus proceed on it to impose his hands, as if it were  sufficient .
	 εἰς τὸ ὄν. τ. κυρ. Ἰησοῦ ] Two questions arise here: (1) Was it the ordinary practice to rebaptize those who had been baptized either by John or by the disciples (John 4:1 f.)  before baptism became, by the effusion of the Holy Spirit , λουτρὸν παλιγγενεσίας ? This we cannot definitely answer. That it was  sometimes done, this incident shews: but in all probability, in the cases of the majority of the original disciples, the greater baptism by the Holy Ghost and fire on the day of Pentecost superseded the outward form or sign. The Apostles themselves received only this baptism (besides probably that of John): and most likely the same was the case with the original believers. But of the three thousand who were added on the day of Pentecost, very many must have been already baptized by John; and all were  rebaptized without enquiry . (2) What conclusion can we deduce from this verse respecting the use or otherwise of baptism  in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost , in the apostolic period? The only answer must be, that at that early time we have no indication of set formulæ in the administration of either sacrament. Such formulæ arose of necessity, when precision in formal statement of doctrine became an absolute necessity in the church: and the materials for them were found ready in the word of God, who has graciously provided for all necessities of His church in all time. But, in matter of  fact , such a baptism as this  was a baptism into the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. As Jews, these men were already servants of the living God and by putting on the Son, they received in a new and more gracious sense the Father also. And in the sequel of their baptism, the imposition of hands, they sensibly became recipients of God the Holy Ghost. Where such manifestations were present, the form of words might be wanting; but with us, who have them not, it is necessary and imperative. Dean Howson regards (i. 517; ii. 13) St. Paul’s question in our Act 19:3 as indicative that the name of the Holy Ghost was used in the baptismal formula. But the inference seems to me insecure.