 12. ] The rec. reading, ἐπιφέρεσθαι , may have been occasioned by the ἐπί preceding: the other, again, by the ἀπό following: in such uncertainty the reading of the ancient MSS. must prevail.
	 σουδ .]  handkerchiefs : see ref. Luke, and notes there.
	 σιμικ .] not  napkins , but  semicinctia ,  aprons , such as servants and artisans use. ἀμφότερα λινοειδῆ εἰσι , Schol.
	 Diseases , and  possession by evil spirits , are here plainly  distinguished from each other. The rationalists, and semi-rationalists, are much troubled to reconcile the fact related, that such handkerchiefs and aprons  were instrumental in working the cures , with what they are pleased to call a popular notion founded in superstition and error. But in this and similar narratives (see ch. Acts 5:15 , note) Christian faith finds no difficulty whatever. All miraculous working is an exertion of the direct power of the All-powerful; a suspension  by Him of His ordinary laws: and whether He will use  any instrument in doing this, or  what instrument, must depend altogether on His own purpose in the miracle the effect to be produced on the recipients, beholders, or hearers. Without His special selection and enabling,  all instruments were vain ; with these,  all are capable . In the present case, as before in ch. Acts 5:15 , it was His purpose to exalt His Apostle as the Herald of His gospel, and to lay in Ephesus the strong foundation of His church. And He therefore endues him with this extraordinary power. (Wordsw. sees an especial fitness in this having occurred at  Ephesus (see on Act 19:19 ), and refers to God having shewed in Egypt that His power was greater than that of Satan working by magicians: and it may well have been so.)
	But to argue by analogy from such a case, to suppose that because our Lord was able, and Peter, and Paul, and in O. T. times Elisha, were enabled, to exert this peculiar power, therefore the same will be possessed by the body or relics of every real or supposed saint, is the height of folly and fanaticism. The true analogy tends directly the other way. In  no cases but these do we find the power, even in the apostolic days: and the general cessation of all extraordinary gifts of the Spirit would lead us to the inference that  à fortiori these , which were even then the rarest ( οὐχ αἱ τυχοῦσαι ), have ceased also.