Acts 4:23.  They went to their own people. The Greek word here translated ‘their own people’ has been understood by some to signify ‘their brother apostles,’ by others ‘the church in the apostles’ house, or ‘those with whom the apostles were accustomed to unite in prayer.’ The term, however, is a far more inclusive one, and comprehends a large number of the believers then in the city. These no doubt had come together on the threatening aspect of the affairs of the little community, as the arrest of the two leaders by the orders of the Sanhedrim was of course known throughout Jerusalem. Others, too, had doubtless hurried to the same house on hearing of the release of Peter and John. It would seem that the primitive Church in Jerusalem already possessed a common resort for prayer and meeting together.  And reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them. To their own people then assembled in the house of the Nazarenes, the two relate all that the Sanhedrim judges had said to them. St. Chrysostom remarks here ‘that they told their tale not for their own glory. ... All that their adversaries had said, this they told; their own part it is likely they omitted.’ Nor did their story on the whole give fair promise for the future. Dark and stormy days evidently lay before the little community. The highest civil and religious authority in the nation had taken formal and public notice of their proceedings, and had condemned them; and though the Sanhedrim had been for the moment restrained from severe measures, it was only too clear that when the temporary pressure of public opinion, always so fluctuating, was removed, the majority of the council would at once proceed to harsher measures. Of the uncertain duration of popular favour, the followers of Jesus had had sad experience in the case of their Master, who was welcomed by the people as the promised King Messiah on the day of Palms, and amid the plaudits of the populace, within five days after, crucified by them as a malefactor. So they now prayed to the God of Israel a very earnest prayer for help and succour.
	