13. if—as we know is the case;
	so the Greek indicative means. Argument from the less to the
	greater. If the blood of mere brutes could purify in any, however
	small a degree, how much more shall inward purification, and complete
	and eternal salvation, be wrought by the blood of Christ, in whom
	dwelt all the fulness of the Godhead? 
	ashes of an heifer— ( :-). The type is full of comfort for us. The water of
	separation, made of the ashes of the red heifer, was the provision
	for removing ceremonial defilement whenever incurred by contact
	with the dead. As she was slain without the camp, so Christ
	(compare Hebrews 13:11; Numbers 19:3;
	Numbers 19:4). The ashes were laid by
	for constant use; so the continually cleansing effects of Christ's
	blood, once for all shed. In our wilderness journey we are
	continually contracting defilement by contact with the spiritually
	dead, and with dead works, and need therefore continual application
	to the antitypical life-giving cleansing blood of Christ, whereby we
	are afresh restored to peace and living communion with God in the
	heavenly holy place. 
	the unclean—Greek,
	"those defiled" on any particular occasion. 
	purifying—Greek,
	"purity." 
	the flesh—Their effect
	in themselves extended no further. The law had a carnal and a
	spiritual aspect; carnal, as an instrument of the Hebrew
	polity, God, their King, accepting, in minor offenses, expiatory
	victims instead of the sinner, otherwise doomed to death; spiritual,
	as the shadow of good things to come (Numbers 19:4- :). The spiritual Israelite derived, in partaking of these
	legal rights, spiritual blessings not flowing from them, but from the
	great antitype. Ceremonial sacrifices released from temporal
	penalties and ceremonial disqualifications; Christ's
	sacrifice releases from everlasting penalties (Numbers 19:4- :), and moral impurities on the conscience
	disqualifying from access to God (Numbers 19:4- :). The purification of the flesh (the mere outward man) was
	by "sprinkling"; the washing followed by inseparable
	connection (Numbers 19:19). So
	justification is followed by renewing.