11. But—in contrast to "could
	not make . . . perfect" ( :-). 
	Christ—The Messiah, of
	whom all the prophets foretold; not "Jesus" here. From whom
	the "reformation" ( :-), or rectification, emanates, which frees from the
	yoke of carnal ordinances, and which is being realized gradually now,
	and shall be perfectly in the consummation of "the age (world)
	to come." "Christ . . . High Priest," exactly answers
	to Leviticus 4:5, "the priest that
	is anointed." 
	being come an, c.—rather,
	"having come forward (compare Leviticus 4:5- :, a different Greek word, picturesquely presenting Him
	before us) as High Priest." The Levitical priests must
	therefore retire. Just as on the day of atonement, no work was done,
	no sacrifice was offered, or priest was allowed to be in the
	tabernacle while the high priest went into the holiest place to make
	atonement (Leviticus 16:17 Leviticus 16:29).
	So not our righteousness, nor any other priest's sacrifice, but
	Christ alone atones; and as the high priest before offering incense
	had on common garments of a priest, but after it wore his holy
	garments of "glory and beauty" (Exodus 28:2;
	Exodus 28:40) in entering the
	holiest, so Christ entered the heavenly holiest in His glorified
	body. 
	good things to come—Greek,
	"the good things to come," Exodus 28:40- :; "better promises," (Exodus 28:40- :; the "eternal inheritance," Hebrews 9:15;
	1 Peter 1:4; the "things hoped
	for," Hebrews 11:1). 
	by a . . . tabernacle—joined
	with "He entered." Translate, "Through the . . .
	tabernacle" (of which we know) [ALFORD].
	As the Jewish high priest passed through the anterior
	tabernacle into the holiest place, so Christ passed through heaven
	into the inner abode of the unseen and unapproachable God. Thus, "the
	tabernacle" here is the heavens through which He passed
	(see on Hebrews 4:14). But "the
	tabernacle" is also the glorified body of Christ (see on
	Hebrews 8:2), "not of this
	building" (not of the mere natural "creation, but of
	the spiritual and heavenly, the new creation"), the Head
	of the mystical body, the Church. Through this glorified body
	He passes into the heavenly holiest place (Hebrews 8:2- :), the immaterial, unapproachable presence of God, where He
	intercedes for us. His glorified body, as the meeting place of
	God and all Christ's redeemed, and the angels, answers to the
	heavens through which He passed, and passes. His body is
	opposed to the tabernacle, as His blood to the blood of goats,
	c. 
	greater—as contrasted
	with the small dimensions of the earthly anterior tabernacle. 
	more perfect—effective
	in giving pardon, peace, sanctification, and access to closest
	communion with God (compare Hebrews 9:9
Hebrews 10:1). 
	not made with hands—but
	by the Lord Himself (Hebrews 8:2).