Hebrews 2:10, etc.  It became him. This arrangement (whereby one made lower than the angels was to be supreme) was not only in harmony with God’s intention, as foreshadowed in nature and revealed in Scripture; it was in itself befitting. It was worthy of God, and it completed the Saviour’s qualifications for His office. In this way He, as sin-bearer, cleanses us from sin, and stands in the same relation to God as those who are to be cleansed. He becomes their brother, pays to the same Father the same tribute of grateful praise, exercises the same trust as they, and presents them with Himself completely redeemed (Hebrews 2:11-13). Meanwhile His mercy, His faithfulness, His help are all perfected through the experience and the sufferings He has undergone (16-18). It became him,  i.e God, who is Himself deeply concerned in His great work, for whom are all things, and this among them.
	 For whom are all things, etc. The same language (which is found elsewhere in N. T. only in Paul’s writings) is applied with characteristic differences to God (Romans 11:36) and to Christ (Colossians 1:6; 1 Corinthians 8:6).
	 In bringing is the right rendering, though ‘having brought’ is a possible meaning of the tense form. The words refer not to the saints of the old economy chiefly, but to all who are being saved. The saints of old David, Israel, etc. typified Christ in their sufferings: to Him, therefore, they were conformed. But we as well as they. And as it is to the coming glory the writer refers, the words are eminently true of us.
	 Captain, translated elsewhere author (Hebrews 12:2), and prince (Acts 5:31), means properly originator or author, and so sometimes leader.
	 Perfect: that is, in His office as Saviour. The personal perfection in obedience which He learned through suffering is touched later (chap. Hebrews 5:2). . . . Sanctification includes all that is needed to make men fit for the service of God freedom from guilt, and personal holiness. Of one,  i.e  not of the same race, but of one Father; not in the sense in which the race are said to be God’s ‘offspring,’ but in the deeper sense of the Divine sonship which begins in our case with spiritual renewal, the sonship which begins with the second birth, not the first, when men are begotten again by the Father, by the Spirit, through the truth.
	