 9 .] “The distinction which Olsh. attempts to set up between εἰδότες as the mere outward, and γνόντες as the inner knowledge, is mere arbitrary fiction: see John 7:26-27 ; John 8:55 ; 2 Corinthians 5:16 .” Meyer.
	 μᾶλλον δὲ γν  .   ὑπ  .   θ  . ] See note on 1 Corinthians 8:3 . Here the propriety of the expression is even more strikingly manifest than there: the Galatians did not so much acquire the knowledge of God, as they were taken into knowledge, recognized, by Him, προσληφθέντες ὑπὸ θεοῦ , Thl.: οὐδὲ γὰρ ὑμεῖς καμόντες εὕρετε τὸν θεόν , … αὐτὸς δὲ ὑμᾶς ἐπεσπάσατο , Chrys. And this made their fall from Him the more matter of indignant appeal, as being a resistance of His will respecting them. No change of the meaning of  γνωσθ  . must be resorted to, as ‘  approved ,’ ‘  loved ’ (Grot., al.: see others in De W. and Mey.): cf. Matthew 25:12 ; 2 Timothy 2:19 . Cf. also Philippians 3:12 .
	 πῶς ]  how is it that …? see reff.
	 ἀσθ  . ] so the προάγουσα ἐντολή is called in Hebrews 7:18 , ἀσθενὲς κ . ἀνωφελές . Want of power to  justify is that to which the word points here.
	 πτωχ  . ] in contrast with the riches which are in Christ. Or both words may perhaps refer back to the state of childhood hinted at in Galatians 4:6 , during which the heir is ἀσθενής , as immature, and πτωχός , as not yet in possession. But this would not strictly apply to the elements as the Gentiles were concerned with them: see below. On στοιχεῖα , see note, Galatians 4:3 .
	 πάλιν ] These Galatians had never been  Jews before: but they had been be fore under the στοιχεῖα τοῦ κόσμου , under which generic term both Jewish and Gentile cultus was comprised: so that they were turning back again to these elements.
	 ἄνωθεν ]  from the beginning, afresh ; not a repetition of πάλιν : Mey. quotes πάλιν ἐξ ἀρχῆς , Barnab. Ep. 16, p. 773 Migne: and Wetstein gives, from Plautus, Cas. Prol. 33, ‘  rursum denuo .’
	 θέλετε , as in E. V.,  ye desire : but if thus expressed here by our translators, why not also in John 5:40 , where it is still more emphatic?