 25 .] (No parenthesis:  συστοιχεῖ δέ begins a new clause.)  For the word Agar (when the neuter article precedes a noun of another gender, not the  import of that noun, but the  noun itself , is designated, so Demosth. p. 255. 4, τὸ δ ʼ ὑμεῖς ὅταν εἴπω , τὴν πόλιν λέγω . Kühner ii. 137)  is (imports)  Mount Sina, in Arabia (i.e. among the Arabians. This rendering, which is Chrysostom’s, τὸ δὲ Σινᾶ ὄρος οὕτω μεθερμηνεύεται τῇ ἐπιχωρίῳ αὐτῶν γλώττῃ (so also Thl., Luther), is I conceive necessitated by the arrangement of the sentence, as well as by τὸ Ἄγαρ . Had the Apostle intended merely to localize Σινᾶ ὄρος by the words ἐν τῇ Ἀρ ., he could hardly but have written τὸ ἐν τῇ Ἀρ ., or have placed ἐν τ . Ἀρ . before ἐστιν . Had he again, adopting the reading τὸ γὰρ Σινᾶ ὄρος ἐστὶν ἐν τῇ Ἀραβίᾳ , intended to say (as Windischmann), ‘  for Mount Sina is in Arabia, where Hagar’s descendants likewise are ,’ the sentence would more naturally have stood τὸ γὰρ Σινᾶ ὄρ . ἐν τῆ Ἀρ . ἐστίν , or καὶ γὰρ Σινᾶ ὄρ . ἐν τ . Ἀρ . ἐστίν . As it is, the law of emphasis would require it to be rendered, ‘  For Sina is a mountain in Arabia ,’ information which the judaizing Galatians would hardly require. As to the fact itself, Meyer states, “ حَجَرُ in Arabic, is a stone: and though we have no further testimony that Mount Sina was thus named κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν by the Arabians, we have that of Chrysostom; and Büsching, Erdbeschreibung, v. p. 535, adduces that of the traveller Haraut, that they to this day call Sinai,  Hadschar . Certainly we have  Hagar as a geographical proper name in Arabia Petræa: the Chaldee paraphrast always calls the wilderness of Shur, חגרא .” So that Jowett certainly speaks too strongly when he says, “the old explanations, that Hagar is the Arabic word for a rock or the Arabic noun for Mount Sinai, are destitute of foundation.” As to the improbability at which he hints, of St. Paul quoting Arabic words in writing to the Galatians, I cannot see how it is greater than that of his making the covert allusion contained in his own interpretation. We may well suppose St. Paul to have become familiarized, during his sojourn there, with this name for the granite peaks of Sinai),  but ( δέ marks the latent contrast that the addition of a new fact brings with it: so Ellic.)  corresponds (viz. Agar, which is the subject, not Mount Sina, see below. “ συστοιχεῖν is ‘  to stand in the same rank :’ hence ‘  to belong to the same category ,’ ‘  to be homogeneous with :’ see Polyb. xiii. 8. 1, ὅμοια κ . σύστοιχα .” Mey., Chrys., all., and the Vulg. (  conjunctus est ), take it literally, and understand it, γειτνιάζει , ἅπτεται , ‘is joined, by a continuous range of mountain-tops,’ understanding  Sina as the subject)  with the present Jerusalem (i.e. Jerusalem under the law, the Jerusalem of the Jews, as contrasted with the Jerusalem of the Messiah’s Kingdom),  for she ( ἡ νῦν Ἱερουσ ., not Ἄγαρ )  is in slavery with her children .