 27 .]  Proof of this relation from Prophecy . The portion of Isaiah from which this is taken, is directly Messianic: indicating in its foreground the reviviscence of Israel after calamity, but in language far surpassing that event. See Stier, Jesaias nicht pseudo-Jesaias, vol. ii. p. 512. The citation is from the LXX, verbatim.
	 ῥῆξον ] sc. φωνήν : cf. many examples in Wetst. Probably the rule of supplying ellipses from the context (following which Kypke and Schött. here supply εὐφ οσύνην , from εὐφράνθητι , and Isaiah 49:13 ; Isaiah 52:9 ; cf. also ‘erumpere gaudium, Ter. Eun. iii. 5. 2 (Ellic.)) need hardly be applied here; the phrase with φωνήν was so common, as to lead at last to the omission of the substantive.
	The Hebrew רִנָּה , ‘into joyful shouting,’ seems not to have been read by the LXX.
	St. Paul here interprets the barren of Sara, who bore not according to the flesh (= the promise), and the fruitful of Agar (= the law). Clem. Rom., Ephesians 2:0 . ad Cor. 2, p. 333, takes the στεῖρα of the Gentile Church, ἐπεὶ ἔρημος ἐδόκει εἶναι ἀπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ , ὁ λαὸς ἡμῶν , νυνὶ δὲ πιστεύσαντες πλείονες ἐγενόμεθα τῶν δοκούντων ἔχειν θεόν (the Jewish Church), and similarly Origen (in Rom., lib. vi. 7, vol. iv. p. 578), … ‘quod multo plures ex gentibus quam ex circumcisione crediderint.’ And this has been the usual interpretation. It only shews how manifold is the ‘perspective of prophecy:’ this sense neither is incompatible with St. Paul’s, nor surely would it have been denied by him. (So Chrys., al., in  this passage, which is clearly wrong: for ἡμῶν , even without πάντων , must apply to  all Christians for the argument to hold.)
	 ὅτι πολ ] not, as E. V., “  many more &c.,” which is inaccurate: but,  many are the children of the desolate, more than (rather than; both being numerous, hers are the  more numerous)  of her , &c.
	 τὸν ἄνδρα ] The E. V. has perhaps done best by rendering ‘  an husband ,’ though thus the force of the Greek is not given. ‘The husband’ would mislead, by pointing at the one husband (Abraham) who was common to Sara and Agar, which might do in this passage, but would not in Isaiah: whereas ἐχ . τὸν ἄνδρα means, ‘her (of the two) who has (the) husband,’ the other having none: a fineness of meaning which we cannot give in English.