 10 .] The affirmative form seems best, as (see Ellic.) supplying a verification of the charge just brought against them interrogatively: explaining τίς τῆς δουλείας τρόπος , Thdrt. Wishing to shew to them in its most contemptible light the unworthiness of their decadence, he puts the  observation of days in the forefront of his appeal, as one of those things which they already practised. Circumcision he does not mention, because they were not yet drawn into it, but only in danger of being so (ch. Galatians 5:2 , al.): nor abstinence from meats, to which we do not hear that they were even tempted.
	 ἡμέρας , emphatic, as the first mentioned, and also as a more general predication of the habit, under which the rest fall. The days would be sabbaths, new moons, and feast days: see Colossians 2:16 , where these are specified.
	 παρατηρ  . ] There does not seem to be any meaning of superstitious or inordinate observance (as Olsh., Winer, &c.), but merely a statement of the fact: see ref. Joseph., where, remarkable enough, the word is applied to the very commandment (the fourth) here in question. “When παρά is ethical, i.e. when the verb is used in a bad sense, e.g. ἐνεδρεύειν κ . παρατηρεῖν , Polyb. xvii. 3. 2, the idea conveyed is that of  hostile observation .” Ellicott.
	 μῆνας ] hardly new moons, which were  days : but perhaps the seventh month, or any others which were distinguished by great feasts.
	 καιρούς ] any festal seasons: so Leviticus 23:4 , αὗται αἱ ἑορταὶ τῷ κυρίῳ κληταὶ ἅγιαι , ἃς καλέσετε αὐτὰς ἐν τοῖς καιροῖς αὐτῶν .
	 ἐνιαυτούς ] can hardly apply to the sabbatical or jubilee years, on account of their rare occurrence, unless indeed with Wieseler, Chron. der Apost. Zeitalt. p. 286 note, we are to suppose that they were then celebrating one: perhaps those observations may be intended which especially regarded the  year , as the  new year. But this is not likely (see above on μῆνας ): and I should much rather suppose, that each of these words is not minutely to be pressed, but all taken together as a rhetorical description of those who observed times and seasons. Notice how utterly such a verse is at variance with any and every theory of a  Christian sabbath , cutting at the root, as it does, of ALL obligatory  observance of times as such : see notes on Romans 14:5-6 ; Colossians 2:16 . “These periodical solemnities of the law shewed, by the fact of their periodical repetition, the imperfection of the dispensation to which they belonged: typifying each feature of Christ’s work, which, as one great and perfect whole, has been performed once for all and for ever, and were material representations of those spiritual truths which the spiritual Israel learn in union with Christ as a risen Lord. To observe periods then, now in the fulness of time, is to deny the perfection of the Christian dispensation, the complete and finished nature of Christ’s work: to forsake Him as the great spiritual teacher of His brethren, and to return to carnal pædagogues: to throw aside sonship in all its fulness, and the spirit of adoption: and to return to childhood and the rule of tutors and governors.” Bagge: who however elsewhere maintains the perpetual obligation of the Sabbath.