 15 .]  Where then (i.e. where in estimation, holding what place) (  was )  your congratulation (of yourselves)? i.e. considering your fickle behaviour since. ‘Quæ causa fuit gratulationis, si vos nunc pœnitet mei?’ Bengel. Various explanations have been given: ‘  quæ (reading τίς )  erat beatitudo vestra ,’ neglecting the οὖν , and making μακαρισμός into  beatitudo , which it will not bear: so (Œc., Luth., Beza, &c. All making the words into an  exclamation (even if τίς be read) is inconsistent with the context, and with the logical precision of οὖν , and ὥστε below. ‘  Where is then the blessedness ye spake of? ’ (E. V.) is perhaps as good a rendering as the words will bear.
	 μαρτυρῶ γὰρ  … ] a proof to what lengths this μακαρισμός , and consequently their high value for St. Paul ran, at his first visit. In seeking for a reference for this expression,  τ  .   ὀφθ  .   ὑμῶν ἐξορ  .   ἐδώκ  .   μοι , the right course will be, not at once to adopt the conclusion, that they point to ocular weakness on the part of the Apostle, nor because they form a trite proverb in many languages, therefore to set down (as Meyer, De W., Windischmann, al., have done) at once that no such allusion can have been intended, but to judge from the words themselves and our information from other sources whether such an allusion is likely. And in doing so, I may observe that a proverbial expression so harsh in its nature, and so little prepared by the context, would perhaps hardly have been introduced without some particle of climax. Would not the Apostle have more naturally written, ὅτι εἰ δυνατόν ,  καὶ τοὺς ὀφθ . ὑμ .…? Had the  καί been inserted, it would have deprived the words of all reference to a matter of fact, and made them purely proverbial. At the same time it is fair to say that the order τοὺς ὀφθ . ὑμῶν rather favours the purely proverbial reference. Had the Apostle’s eyes been affected, and had he wished to express “You would, if possible, have pulled out  your own eyes, and have given them to  me ,” he would certainly have written ὑμῶν τοὺς ὀφθ ., not τοὺς ὀφθ . ὑμῶν . In other words, the more emphatic τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς is, the more likely is the expression to be proverbial merely: the less emphatic τ . ὀφθ . is, the more likely to refer to some fact, in which the eyes were as matter of notoriety concerned. The inference then of any ocular disease from these words themselves seems to me precarious. Certainly Acts 23:1 ff. receives light from such a supposition; but with our very small knowledge on the subject, many conjectures may be hazarded with some shew of support from Scripture, while none of them has enough foundation to make it probable on the whole. The proverb is abundantly illustrated by Wetst.  ἐξορύσσω is the regular classic word: cf. Herod. viii. 116: this however is doubted by Ellic. See on the whole passage, Jowett’s most interesting “fragment on the character of St. Paul,” Epp. &c. vol. i. pp. 290 303.