 4 .]  τὸ πλήρωμα τ  .   χρόνου (‘that whereby the time was filled up:’ see note on Ephesians 1:23 , Fritzsche’s note on Romans 11:12 , and Stier’s, Ephesians 1:0 . p. 199 ff. for a discussion of the meanings of πλήρωμα ) answers to the προθεσμία τ . πατρός , Galatians 4:2 ; see reff. The Apostle uses this term with regard not only to the absolute will of God, but to the preparations which were made for the Redeemer on this earth: partly as Thl., ὅτε πᾶν εἶδος κακίας διεξελθοῦσα ἡ φύσις ἡ ἀνθρωπίνη ἐδεῖτο θεραπείας , partly as Bengel, ‘suas etiam ecclesia ætates habet.’ The manifestation of man’s guilt was complete: and the way of the Lord was prepared, by various courses of action which He had brought about by men as his instruments.
	 ἐξαπέστ  . cannot, however little, for the purposes of the present argument, the divine side of our Lord’s mission is to be pressed, mean any thing less than  sent forth from Himself (reff.).
	 γενόμ  .   ἐκ γυν  . will not bear being pressed, as Calv., Grot., Estius, al., have done (“discernere Christum a reliquis voluit hominibus: quia ex semine matris creatus sit, non viri et mulieris coitu,” Calv.): it is Christ’s HUMANITY which is the point insisted on, not His being born of a virgin. On the other hand, the words cannot for an instant be adduced as  inconsistent with such birth: they state generically, what all Christians are able, from the Gospel record, to fill up specifically.
	 γενόμ  .   ὑπὸ νόμον ] ‘  born of a woman ,’ identified Him with all mankind:  born under (the idea of motion conveyed by the accusative after ὑπό is accounted for by the transition implied in γενόμενος )  the law , introduces another condition, in virtue of which He became the Redeemer of those who were under a special revelation and covenant. A Gentile could not (humanly speaking, as far as God has conditioned His own proceedings) have saved the world: for the Jews were the representative nation, to which the representative man must belong.  γενόμ  . is both times emphatic, and therefore not to be here rendered ‘legi subjectum,’ as Luther, ‘  unter das Gesess gethan .’