 14 .] I had in some former editions retained the rec., feeling persuaded that out of it the other readings have arisen. The whole tenor of the passage seeming to shew that the Apostle’s weakness was spoken of as a trial to the Galatians, μου appeared to have been altered to ὑμῶν , or to have been omitted by some who could not see its relevance, or its needfulness. But the principles of sounder criticism have taught me how unsafe is such ground of arguing, and have compelled me to adopt the text of the most ancient MSS. The  temptation seems to have been the ‘thorn in the flesh’ of 2 Corinthians 12:1 ff., whatever that was: perhaps something connected with his sight, or some nervous infirmity: see below, and notes on Acts 13:9 ; Acts 23:1 .
	 ἐξεπτύσατε ] “expresses figuratively and in a climax the sense of ἐξουθ . Cf. the Latin  despuere, respuere . In other Greek writers we have only καταπτύειν τινός , ἀποπτύειν τινά (Eur. Troad. 668; Hec. 1265. Hes. ἔργ . 724), and διαπτύειν τινά in this metaphorical sense, but ἐκπτύειν always in its literal sense (Hom. Od. ε . 322), as also ἐμπτύειν τινί . Even in the passage cited by Kypke from Plut., Alex. i. p. 328, it is in its literal sense, as ὥσπερ χαλινόν follows. We must treat this then as a departure from Greek usage, and regard it as occasioned by ἐξουθ ., as Paul loves to repeat the same prepositions in composition (Romans 2:17 ; Rom 11:7 al.), not without emphasis.” Meyer.
	 ὡς ἄγγελ  .   θ  .,   ὡς χρ  .   Ἰησ  . ] a climax: besides the freedom of angels from fleshly weakness, there is doubtless an allusion to their office as messengers and to His saying, who is above the angels, Luke 10:16 . No inference can be drawn from  these expressions being used of  the Galatians’ reception of him, that they were already Christians when he first visited them: the words are evidently not to be pressed as accurate in point of chronology, but involve an ὕστερον πρότερον : not, ‘as you  would have received,’ &c., but ‘as you would (now) receive.’