 6 .] Meyer interprets this verse with Chrys.: καὶ πόθεν δῆλον ὅτι γεγόναμεν υἱοί , φησίν ; εἶπε τρόπον ἕνα , ὅτι τὸν χριστὸν ἐνεδυσάμεθα τὸν ὄντα υἱόν · λέγει κ . δεύτερον , ὅτι τὸ πνεῦμα τῆς υἱοθεσίας ἐλάβομεν · οὐ γὰρ ἂν ἐδυνήθημεν καλέσαι πατέρα , εἰ μὴ πρότερον υἱοὶ κατέστημεν . And so Thdrt., Thl., Ambr., Pel., Koppe, Flatt, Rückert, Schött., and Ellicott. [Jowett combines both interpretations: but this can hardly be.] If so, we must assume a very unusual ellipsis after ὅτι δέ ἐστε υἱοί , one hardly justified by such precedents as Romans 11:18 , εἰ δὲ κατακαυχᾶσαι , οὐ σὺ τ . ῥίζαν βαστάζεις , κ . τ . λ ., Romans 11:15 , and supply, ‘God hath given you this proof, that.…’ Meyer urges in defence of his view the emphatic position of ἐστε , on which see below. I prefer the ordinary rendering because it suits best (1) the simplicity of construction, the causal ὅτι thus beginning a sentence followed by an apodosis, as in ref., whereas we have no example of the demonstrative ὅτι followed by the ellipsis here supposed: cf. ch. Galatians 3:11 , where δῆλον follows: (2) the context; it is not in  corroboration of the fact that we are sons, but as a  consequence of that fact, that the Apostle states what follows: to shew the completeness of the state of sonship. In Romans 8:16 , the order of these is inverted, and the witness of the Spirit  proves our sonship: but that does not affect the present passage, which must stand on its own ground. (3) The aorist ἐξαπέστειλεν is against Meyer’s view it would be in that case ἐξαπέσταλκεν . It is now used of the time of the gift of the Spirit. Render then:  Because moreover ye are sons (the stress on ἐστε is hardly to be urged: υἱοί ἐστε would certainly give a very strong emphasis on the  noun : all we can say of ἐστε υἱοί , where so insignificant a word as a verb substantive is concerned, is that there is now no such strong stress on υἱοί , but that the  whole fact , of the state of sonship having been brought in, and actually existing, is alleged)  God sent forth (not, ‘  hath sent forth ’ see above)  the Spirit of His Son (you being now fellows with that Son in the communion of the Spirit, won for you as a consequence of His atonement: called, Romans 8:15 , πνεῦμα υἱοθεσίας , and ib. Romans 8:9 , πνεῦμα χριστοῦ , where participation in Him is said to be the necessary condition of belonging to Christ at all)  into our hearts (as he changed from the third person to the first in the foregoing verse, so now from the second: both times from the fervour of his heart, wavering between logical accuracy and generous largeness of sympathy),  crying (in Romans 8:15 , it is ἐν ᾧ κράζομεν . Here the Spirit being the main subject, is regarded as the agent, and the believer merely as His organ)  Abba Father . ὁ πατήρ is not a mere Greek explanation of Ἀββᾶ , but an address by His name of relation, of Him to whom the term Ἀββᾶ was used more as a token of affection than as conveying its real meaning of ‘my father:’ see notes on Mark 14:36 , Romans 8:15 . Aug. gives a fanciful reason for the repetition: “Eleganter autem intelligitur non frustra duarum linguarum verba posuisse idem significantia propter universum populum, qui de Judæis et de Gentilibus in unitatem fidei vocatus est: ut Hebræum verbum ad Judæos, Græcum ad gentes, utriusque tamen verbi eadem significatio ad ejusdem fidei spiritusque unitatem pertineat.” And so Luther, Calvin, and Bengel.