3. Who being—by pre-existent
	and essential being. 
	brightness of his
	glory—Greek, the effulgence of His glory. "Light
	of (from) light" [Nicene Creed]. "Who is so
	senseless as to doubt concerning the eternal being of the Son? For
	when has one seen light without effulgence?" [ATHANASIUS,
	Against Arius, Orations, 2]. "The sun is never seen
	without effulgence, nor the Father without the Son"
	[THEOPHYLACT]. It is
	because He is the brightness, c., and because He
	upholds, &c., that He sat down on the right hand, &c.
	It was a return to His divine glory (John 6:62
John 17:5; compare Wisdom 7:25,
	26, where similar things are said of wisdom). 
	express image—"impress."
	But veiled in the flesh. 
	 The Sun of God in glory
	beams 
	 Too bright for us to
	scan; 
	 But we can face the light
	that streams 
	 For the mild Son of
	man. (2 Corinthians 3:18) 
	
of his person—Greek,
	"of His substantial essence"; "hypostasis."
	upholding all things—Greek,
	"the universe." Compare Colossians 1:15;
	Colossians 1:17; Colossians 1:20,
	which enumerates the three facts in the same order as here. 
	by the word—Therefore
	the Son of God is a Person; for He has the word [BENGEL].
	His word is God's word (Colossians 1:20- :). 
	of his power—"The
	word" is the utterance which comes from His (the Son's) power,
	and gives expression to it. 
	by himself—omitted in
	the oldest manuscripts. 
	purged—Greek,
	"made purification of . . . sins," namely, in His
	atonement, which graciously covers the guilt of sin. "Our"
	is omitted in the oldest manuscripts. Sin was the great uncleanness
	in God's sight, of which He has effected the purgation by His
	sacrifice [ALFORD]. Our
	nature, as guilt-laden, could not, without our great High Priest's
	blood of atonement sprinkling the heavenly mercy seat, come into
	immediate contact with God. EBRARD
	says, "The mediation between man and God, who was present in the
	Most Holy Place, was revealed in three forms: (1) In sacrifices
	(typical propitiations for guilt); (2) In the priesthood (the agents
	of those sacrifices); (3) In the Levitical laws of purity (Levitical
	purity being attained by sacrifice positively, by avoidance of
	Levitical pollution negatively, the people being thus enabled to come
	into the presence of God without dying, Colossians 1:20- :)" (Colossians 1:20- :). 
	sat down on the right hand of
	the Majesty on high—fulfilling Colossians 1:20- :. This sitting of the Son at God's fight hand was by the act
	of the Father (Hebrews 8:1; Ephesians 1:20);
	it is never used of His pre-existing state co-equal with the Father,
	but always of His exalted state as Son of man after His sufferings,
	and as Mediator for man in the presence of God (Ephesians 1:20- :): a relation towards God and us about to come to an end when
	its object has been accomplished (Ephesians 1:20- :).