9. iniquity—"unnrighteousness."
	Some oldest manuscripts read, "lawlessness." 
	therefore—because God
	loves righteousness and hates iniquity. 
	God . . . thy God—JEROME,
	AUGUSTINE, and others
	translate Psalms 45:7, "O God,
	Thy God, hath anointed thee," whereby Christ is addressed as
	God. This is probably the true translation of the Hebrew
	there, and also of the Greek of Hebrews here; for it is likely
	the Son is addressed, "O God," as in Psalms 45:7- :. The anointing here meant is not that at His baptism,
	when He solemnly entered on His ministry for us; but that with the
	"oil of gladness," or "exulting joy" (which
	denotes a triumph, and follows as the consequence of His
	manifested love of righteousness and hatred of iniquity),
	wherewith, after His triumphant completion of His work, He has been
	anointed by the Father above His fellows (not only above us, His
	fellow men, the adopted members of God's family, whom "He is not
	ashamed to call His brethren," but above the angels, fellow
	partakers in part with Him, though infinitely His inferiors, in the
	glories, holiness, and joys of heaven; "sons of God," and
	angel "messengers," though subordinate to the divine
	Angel—"Messenger of the covenant"). Thus He is antitype
	to Solomon, "chosen of all David's many sons to sit upon the
	throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel," even as His
	father David was chosen before all the house of his father's sons.
	The image is drawn from the custom of anointing guests at feasts (Psalms 45:7- :); or rather of anointing kings: not until His ascension did
	He assume the kingdom as Son of man. A fuller accomplishment
	is yet to be, when He shall be VISIBLY
	the anointed King over the whole earth (set by the Father) on His
	holy hill of Zion, Psalms 2:6;
	Psalms 2:8. So David, His type, was
	first anointed at Bethlehem (1 Samuel 16:13;
	Psalms 89:20); and yet again at
	Hebron, first over Judah (2 Samuel 2:4),
	then over all Israel (2 Samuel 5:3);
	not till the death of Saul did he enter on his actual kingdom; as it
	was not till after Christ's death that the Father set Him at His
	right hand far above all principalities (Ephesians 1:20;
	Ephesians 1:21). The Ephesians 1:21- : in its first meaning was addressed to Solomon; but the Holy
	Spirit inspired the writer to use language which in its fulness can
	only apply to the antitypical Solomon, the true Royal Head of the
	theocracy.