1. at sundry times—Greek,
	"in many portions." All was not revealed to each one
	prophet; but one received one portion of revelation, and another
	another. To Noah the quarter of the world to which Messiah should
	belong was revealed; to Abraham, the nation; to Jacob, the tribe; to
	David and Isaiah, the family; to Micah, the town of nativity; to
	Daniel, the exact time; to Malachi, the coming of His forerunner, and
	His second advent; through Jonah, His burial and resurrection;
	through Isaiah and Hosea, His resurrection. Each only knew in part;
	but when that which was perfect came in Messiah, that which was in
	part was done away (1 Corinthians 13:12).
	in divers manners—for
	example, internal suggestions, audible voices, the Urim and Thummim,
	dreams, and visions. "In one way He was seen by Abraham, in
	another by Moses, in another by Elias, and in another by Micah;
	Isaiah, Daniel, and Ezekiel, beheld different forms"
	[THEODORET]. (Compare 1 Corinthians 13:12- :). The Old Testament revelations were fragmentary in
	substance, and manifold in form; the very multitude of
	prophets shows that they prophesied only in part. In Christ,
	the revelation of God is full, not in shifting hues of separated
	color, but Himself the pure light, uniting in His one person the
	whole spectrum (Hebrews 1:3). 
	spake—the expression
	usual for a Jew to employ in addressing Jews. So Matthew, a Jew
	writing especially for Jews, quotes Scripture, not by the formula,
	"It is written," but "said," c. 
	in time past—From
	Malachi, the last of the Old Testament prophets, for four hundred
	years, there had arisen no prophet, in order that the Son might be
	the more an object of expectation [BENGEL].
	As God (the Father) is introduced as having spoken here so God
	the Son, Hebrews 2:3; God the Holy
	Ghost, Hebrews 3:7. 
	the fathers—the Jewish
	fathers. The Jews of former days (Hebrews 3:7- :). 
	by—Greek, "in."
	A mortal king speaks by his ambassador, not (as the King of
	kings) in his ambassador. The Son is the last and highest
	manifestation of God (Matthew 21:34;
	Matthew 21:37); not merely a measure,
	as in the prophets, but the fulness of the Spirit of God dwelling in
	Him bodily (John 1:16; John 3:34;
	Colossians 2:9). Thus he answers the
	Jewish objection drawn from their prophets. Jesus is the end of all
	prophecy (Revelation 19:10), and of
	the law of Moses (John 1:17;
	John 5:46).