16. This verse is parenthetical.
	The covenant of promise was not "spoken" (so Greek
	for "made") to Abraham alone, but "to Abraham and his
	seed"; to the latter especially; and this means Christ (and that
	which is inseparable from Him, the literal Israel, and the
	spiritual, His body, the Church). Christ not having come when the
	law was given, the covenant could not have been then fulfilled, but
	awaited the coming of Him, the Seed, to whom it was spoken. 
	promises—plural,
	because the same promise was often repeated (Genesis 12:3;
	Genesis 12:7; Genesis 15:5;
	Genesis 15:18; Genesis 17:7;
	Genesis 22:18), and because it
	involved many things; earthly blessings to the literal children of
	Abraham in Canaan, and spiritual and heavenly blessings to his
	spiritual children; but both promised to Christ, "the Seed"
	and representative Head of the literal and spiritual Israel alike. In
	the spiritual seed there is no distinction of Jew or Greek;
	but to the literal seed, the promises still in part remain to be
	fulfilled (Romans 11:26). The
	covenant was not made with "many" seeds (which if there had
	been, a pretext might exist for supposing there was one seed before
	the law, another under the law; and that those sprung from one seed,
	say the Jewish, are admitted on different terms, and with a higher
	degree of acceptability, than those sprung from the Gentile seed),
	but with the one seed; therefore, the promise that in Him "all
	the families of the earth shall be blessed" (Romans 11:26- :), joins in this one Seed, Christ, Jew and Gentile, as fellow
	heirs on the same terms of acceptability, namely, by grace through
	faith (Romans 4:13); not to some by
	promise, to others by the law, but to all alike, circumcised and
	uncircumcised, constituting but one seed in Christ (Romans 4:13- :). The law, on the other hand, contemplates the Jews and
	Gentiles as distinct seeds. God makes a covenant, but it is one of
	promise; whereas the law is a covenant of works. Whereas the law
	brings in a mediator, a third party (Galatians 3:19;
	Galatians 3:20), God makes His covenant
	of promise with the one seed, Christ (Galatians 3:20- :), and embraces others only as they are identified with, and
	represented by, Christ. 
	one . . . Christ—not in
	the exclusive sense, the man Christ Jesus, but "Christ"
	(Jesus is not added, which would limit the meaning), including
	His people who are part of Himself, the Second Adam,
	and Head of redeemed humanity. Galatians 3:28;
	Galatians 3:29 prove this, "Ye are
	all ONE in Christ Jesus"
	(Jesus is added here as the person is indicated). "And if
	ye be Christ's, ye are Abraham's SEED,
	heirs according to the promise."