 11 .]  For (reasons for the above exhortations from Titus 2:1 ; not as Chrys., al., only for Titus 2:9-10 . The latter clause of Titus 2:10 , it is true, gives occasion to this declaration; but the reference of these verses is far wider than merely to slaves)  the grace of God (that divine favour to men, of which the whole process of Redemption was a proof: not to be limited to  Christ’s Incarnation , as Œc. and Thdrt.: though certainly this may be said for their interpretation, that  it may  also be regarded as a term inclusive of all the blessings of Redemption: but it does not follow, that of two such inclusive terms, the one may be substituted for the other)  was manifested, bringing salvation (not, ‘as bringing salvation:’ σωτήριος is not predicate after ἐπεφ ., but παιδεύουσα which follows: σωτήριος is still part of the subject, and to make this constructionally clearer, the art. ἡ has been inserted)  to all men (dat. belonging to σωτήριος , not to ἐπεφάνη , which verb is used absolutely, as in ch. Titus 3:4 ; cf. σωτὴρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων , 1 Timothy 4:10 ; see also ib. 1Ti 2:4 ),  disciplining us (see note on 1 Timothy 1:20 . There is no need to depart from the universal New Testament sense of παιδεύουσα , and soften it into ‘  teaching :’ the education which the Christian man receives from the grace of God, is a discipline, properly so called, of self-denial and training in godliness, accompanied therefore with much mortification and punitive treatment. Luther has well rendered παιδεύουσα ἡμᾶς by ‘und züchtiget uns.’ Corn.-a-lap. (cited in Mack) explains it also well: “tanquam pueros rudes erudiens, corrigens, formans, omnique disciplina instituens et imbuens, perinde ut pædagogus puerum sibi commissum tam in litteris quam in moribus: hoc enim est παιδεύειν , inquit Gell. i. 13. 13”),  that (by the ordinary rendering, “  teaching us, that ,” we make  ἵνα introduce merely the  purport of the teaching: and so, following most Commentators, De W., and I am surprised to see, Huther, although I suppose representing in some measure the philological fidelity of Meyer, under whose shelter his commentary appears. There must have been some defect of supervision here. Wiesinger only of the recent Commentators, after Mack and Matthies, keeps the telic meaning of ἵνα . The Greek Commentators, as might be expected, adhere to the propriety of their own language. So Chrys. ( ἦλθεν ὁ χριστός ἵνα ἁρνησώμεθα τὴν ἀσέβειαν ), Thl. ( παιδεύει γὰρ ἡμᾶς , ἵνα τοῦ λοιποῦ σωφρόνως ζήσωμεν ), Thdrt. ( τούτου χάριν ἐνηνθρώπησεν … ἵνα …). The truth is, that  παιδεύειν is one of those verbs, the purpose and purport of which mutually include each other. The form and manner of instructive discipline itself conveys the aim and intent of that discipline. So that the meaning of ἵνα after such a verb falls under the class which I have discussed in my note to 1 Corinthians 14:13 , which see. Our English ‘that,’ which would be dubious after ‘  teaching ,’ keeps, after ‘disciplining,’ its proper telic force),  denying (not, ‘having denied:’ the aor. part. ἀρνησάμενοι is, as so often, not prior to, but contemporaneous with, the aor. ζήσωμεν following. (This, against Ellic. requires pressing here. The whole life being summed up in ζήσωμεν , aor., not ζῶμεν , pres., the aor. part. ἀρνησάμενοι must be so rendered, as to extend over all that sum, not as if it represented some definite act of abnegation anterior to it all.) διὰ τοῦ ἀρνήσασθαι , says Thl., τὴν ἐκ διαθέσεως ὁλοψύχου ἀποστροφὴν σημαίνει . “Has (cupiditates) abnegamus, cum eis consensum negamus, cum delectationem quam suggerunt, et actum ad quem sollicitant, abnuimus, imo ex mente et animo radicitus evellimus et extirpamus.” S. Bernard, Serm. xi. (Mack))  impiety and the lusts of the world (the τάς gives universality ‘  all worldly lusts.’  κοσμικάς , belonging to the κόσμος , the world which ἐν τῷ πονηρῷ κεῖται , and is without God: see 1Jn 2:15-17 and Ellicott’s note here),  we might live soberly (our old difficulty of rendering σώφρων and its derivatives recurs. ‘Soberly’ seems here to express the  adverb well, though ‘sober’ by no means covers the meaning of the  adjective . The fact is, that the peculiar meaning which has become attached to ‘sober,’ so much so, as almost to deprive it of its more general reference to life and thought, has not taken possession of the adverb)  and justly (better than ‘  righteously ,’ ‘righteous,’ by its forensic objective sense in St. Paul, introducing a confusion, where the question is of moral rectitude)  and piously in the present life (“Bernard, Serm. xi.:  sobrie erga nos,  juste erga proximum,  pie erga Deum, Salmer. p. 630 f.: dicimus in his verbis Apostolum tribus virtutibus, sobrietatis, pietatis et justitiæ, summam justitiæ Christianæ; complecti. Sobrietas est ad se, justitia ad proximum, pietas erga Deum … sobrie autem agit, cum quis se propter Deum diligit: juste, cum proximum diligit: pie, cum charitate Deum colit.” Mack. Wolf quotes from Lucian, Somn. p. 8, the same conjunction: τὴν ψυχὴν … κατακοσμήσω … σωφροσύνῃ , δικαιοσύνῃ , καὶ εὐσεβίᾳ … ταῦτα γάρ ἐστιν ὁ τῆς ψυχῆς ἀκήρατος κόσμος .
	These three comprising our παιδεία in faith and love, he now comes to  hope ):  looking for (this expectation being an abiding state and posture, not, like ζήσωμεν , the life following on and unfolded from the determining impulse co-ordinate with the ἀρνήσασθαι , is put in the  pres. , not in the  aor. )  the blessed hope (here, as in reff. Gal. and Acts, Col 1:5 al., nearly objective, the hope, as embodying the thing hoped for: but keep the vigour and propriety both of language and thought, and do not tame down the one and violate the other, with Grot., by a metonymy, or with Wolf, by a hypallage of μακαρία ἐλπίς for ἐλπιζομένη μακαριότης )  and manifestation ( ἐλπίδα κ . ἐπιφ . belong together)  of the glory ( δύο δείκνυσιν ἐνταῦθα ἐπιφανείας · καὶ γάρ εἰσι δύο · ἡ μὲν προτέρα χάριτος , ἡ δὲ δευτέρα ἀνταποδόσεως , Chrys. Nothing could be more unfortunate than the application here of the figure of hendiadys in the E.V.: see below)  of the great God (the Father: see below)  and of our Saviour Jesus Christ (as regards the sense, an exact parallel is found in Matthew 16:27 , μέλλει γὰρ ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ ἀνθρώπου ἔρχεσθαι ἐν τῇ δόξῃ τοῦ πατρὸς αὐτοῦ , compared with Matthew 25:31 , ὅταν ἔλθῃ ὁ υἱὸς τοῦ ἀνθρώπου ἐν τῇ δόξῃ αὐτοῦ . See also 1 Peter 4:13 . The glory which shall be revealed at the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ is  His own glory,  and that of  His Father (John 17:5 ; 1Th 3:13 ). This sense having been obscured by the foolish hendiadys, has led to the asking (by Mr. Green, Gr. Test. Gram., p. 216), “What intimation is given in Scripture of a glorious appearing of God the Father and our Lord  in concert? ” To which the answer is, that no such appearing is even hinted at in this passage, taken as above. What is asserted is, that the δόξα shall be that τοῦ μεγάλου θεοῦ καὶ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ . And we now come to consider the meaning of these words. Two views have been taken of them: (1) that τοῦ μεγάλου θεοῦ καὶ σωτῆρος ̣ ἡμῶν are to be taken together as the description of Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , ‘  of Jesus Christ, the great God and our Saviour :’ (2) that as given above, τοῦ μεγάλου θεοῦ describes the Father, and σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ the Son. It is obvious that in dealing with (1), we shall be deciding with regard to (2) also. (1) has been the view of the Greek orthodox Fathers, as against the Arians (see a complete collection of their testimonies in Dr. Wordsworth’s “Six Letters to Granville Sharp on the use of the definite article in the Greek text of the N. T.” Lond. 1802), and of most ancient and modern Commentators. That the former so interpreted the words, is obviously not (as it has been considered) decisive of the question, if they can be shewn to bear legitimately another meaning, and that meaning to be the one most likely to have been in the mind of the writer. The case of ἵνα in the preceding verse (see note there), was wholly different. There it was contended that ἵνα with a subjunctive, has, and can have, but one meaning: and this was upheld against those who would introduce another,  inter alia , by the fact that the Greek Fathers dreamt of no other. The argument rested not on this latter fact, but on the logical force of the particle itself. And similarly here, the passage must be argued primarily on its own ground, not primarily on the consensus of the Greek Fathers. No one disputes that it  may mean that which they have interpreted it: and there were obvious reasons why they, having licence to do so, should choose this interpretation. But it is our object, not being swayed in this or any other interpretation, by doctrinal considerations one way or the other, to enquire, not what the words  may mean, but what they  do mean, as far as we may be able to ascertain it. The main, and indeed the only reliance of those who take (1), is the omission of the article before σωτῆρος . Had the sentence stood τοῦ μεγ . θεοῦ καὶ τοῦ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰ . χ ., their verdict for (2) would have been unanimous. That the insertion of the article would have been decisive for (2), is plain: but is it equally plain, that its omission is decisive for (1)? This must depend entirely on the nature and position of the word thus left anarthrous. If it is a word which had by usage become altogether or occasionally anarthrous, if it is so connected, that the presence of the article expressed, is not requisite to its presence in the sense, then the state of the case, as regards the omission, is considerably altered. Now there is no doubt that σωτήρ was one of those words which gradually dropped the article and became a quasi proper name: cf. 1 Timothy 1:1 (I am quite aware of Bp. Middleton’s way of accounting for this, but do not regard it as satisfactory); 1 Timothy 4:10 ; which latter place is very instructive as to the way in which the designation from its official nature became anarthrous. This being so, it must hardly be judged as to the expression of the art. by the same rules as other nouns. Then as to its structural and contextual connexion. It is joined with ἡμῶν , which is an additional reason why it may spare the article: see Luke 1:78 ; Romans 1:7 ; 1 Corinthians 1:3 (1 Corinthians 2:7 ; 1Co 10:11 ): 2 Corinthians 1:2 , &c. Again, as Winer has observed (edn. 6, § 19, 5 b, remark 1), the prefixing of an appositional designation to the proper name frequently causes the omission of the article. So in 2 Thessalonians 1:12 ; 2 Peter 1:1 ; Jude 1:4 ; see also 2 Corinthians 1:2 ; 2 Corinthians 6:18 ; Galatians 1:3 ; Ephesians 1:2 ; Ephesians 6:23 ; Philippians 1:2 ; Philippians 2:11 ; Philippians 3:20 &c. If then σωτὴρ ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦς χριστός may signify ‘Jesus Christ our Saviour,’ on comparing the two members of the clause, we observe, that θεοῦ has already had its predicate expressed in τοῦ μεγαλου ; and that it is therefore natural to expect that the latter member of the clause, likewise consisting of a proper name and its predicate, should correspond logically to the former: in other words, that τοῦ θεοῦ καὶ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰη . χρ . would much more naturally suit (1) than τοῦ  μεγάλου θεοῦ καὶ σωτῆρος ἡμ . Ἰη . χρ . In clauses where the two appellative members belong to one expressed subject, we expect to find the former of them without any predicative completion. If it be replied to this, as I conceive on the hypothesis of (1) it must be, that τοῦ μεγάλου is an epithet alike of θεοῦ and σωτῆρος , ‘our great (God and Saviour),’ I may safely leave it to the feeling of any scholar, whether such an expression would be likely to occur. Let us now consider, whether the Apostle would in this place have been likely to designate our Lord as ὁ μέγας θεὸς καὶ σωτὴρ ἡμῶν . This must be chiefly decided by examining the usages of the expression θεὸς ὁ σωτὴρ ἡμῶν , which occurs six times in these Epistles, once in Luke ( Luk 1:47 ), and once in the Epistle of Jude. If the writer  here identifies this expression, ‘the great God and our Saviour,’ with the Lord Jesus Christ, calling Him ‘God and our Saviour,’ it will be at least probable that in other places where he speaks of “God our Saviour,” he also designates our Lord Jesus Christ. Now is that so? On the contrary, in 1 Timothy 1:1 , we have κατ ʼ ἐπιταγὴν θεοῦ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν , καὶ χριστοῦ Ἰησοῦ τῆς ἐλπίδος ἡμῶν : where I suppose none will deny that the Father and the Son are most plainly distinguished from one another. The same is the case in 1 Timothy 2:3-5 , a passage bearing much (see below) on the interpretation of this one: and consequently in 1 Timothy 4:10 , where ἐστιν σωτὴρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων corresponds to θέλει πάντας σωθῆναι in the other. So also in Titus 1:3 , where the σωτὴρ ἡμῶν θεός , by whose ἐπιταγή the promise of eternal life was manifested, with the proclamation of which St. Paul was entrusted, is the same αἰώνιος θεός , by whose ἐπιταγή the hidden mystery was manifested in Romans 16:26 , where the same distinction is made. The only place where there could be any doubt is in our Titus 2:10 , which possible doubt however is removed by Titus 2:11 , where the same assertion is made, of the revelation of the hidden grace of God (the Father). Then we have our own ch. Titus 3:4-6 , where we find τοῦ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν θεοῦ in Titus 2:4 , clearly defined as  the Father , and διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ τοῦ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν in Titus 2:6 . In that passage too we have the expression ἡ χρηστότης καὶ ἡ φιλανθρωπία ἐπεφάνη τοῦ σωτῆρος ἡμ . θεοῦ , which is quite decisive in answer to those who object here to the expression ἐπιφάνειαν τῆς δόξης as applied to the Father. In the one passage of St. Jude, the distinction is equally clear: for there we have μόνῳ θεῷ σωτῆρι ἡμῶν διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν . It is plain then, that the usage of the words ‘  God our Saviour ’ does not make it probable that the whole expression here is to be applied to the Lord Jesus Christ. And in estimating this probability, let us again recur to 1 Timothy 2:3 ; 1 Timothy 2:5 , a passage which runs very parallel with the present one. We read there, εἷς γὰρ θεός , | εἷς καὶ μεσίτης θεοῦ καὶ ἀνθρώπων , ἄνθρωπος χριστὸς Ἰησοῦς , ὁ δοὺς ἑαυτὸν ἀντίλυτρον κ . τ . λ . Compare this with τοῦ μεγάλου θεοῦ | καὶ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , ὃς ἔδωκεν ἑαυτὸν ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν ἵνα λυτρώσηται κ . τ . λ . Can there be a reasonable doubt, that the Apostle writing two sentences so closely corresponding, on a point of such high importance, would have in his view the same distinction in the second of them, which he so strongly lays down in the first? Without then considering the question as closed, I would submit that (2) satisfies all the grammatical requirements of the sentence: that it is both structurally and contextually more probable, and more agreeable to the Apostle’s way of writing: and I have therefore preferred it. The principal advocates for it have been, the pseudo-Ambrose (i.e. Hilary the deacon, the author of the Commentary which goes by the name of that Father: whose words are these, “hanc esse dicit beatam spem credentium, qui exspectant adventum gloriæ magni Dei quod revelari habet judice Christo, in quo Dei Patris videbitur potestas et gloria, ut fidei suæ præmium consequantur. Ad hoc enim redemit nos Christus, ut” &c.), Erasm. (annot. and paraphr.), Grot., Wetst., Heinr., Winer (ubi supra, end), De W., Huther (the other view, not this as stated in my earlier editions, by inadvertence, is taken by Ellicott). Whichever way taken, the passage is just as important a testimony to the divinity of our Saviour: according to (1), by asserting His possession of Deity and right to the appellation of the Highest: according to (2), even more strikingly, asserting His equality in glory with the Father, in a way which would be blasphemy if predicated of any of the sons of men),  who (our Saviour Jesus Christ),  gave Himself (“the forcible ἑαυτόν , ‘Himself, His whole self, the greatest gift ever given,’ must not be overlooked: cf. Beveridge, Serm. 93, vol. iv. p. 285.” Ellicott)  for us (‘on our behalf,’ not ‘  in our stead :’ reff.),  that He might (by this assertion of the Redeemer’s purpose, we return to the moral aim of Titus 2:11-12 , more plainly indicated as in close connexion with Christ’s propitiatory sacrifice)  redeem (  λυτροῦσθαι , ‘  to buy off with a price ,’ the  middle including personal agency and interest, cf. καθαρίσῃ  ἑαυτῷ below. So in Diod. Sic. v. 17, of the Balearians, ὅταν τινὲς γυναῖκες ὑπὸ τῶν προσπλεόντων λῃστῶν ἁλῶσιν , ἀντὶ μιᾶς γυναικὸς τρεῖς ἢ τέτταρας ἄνδρας διδόντες  λυτροῦνται . Polyb. xvii. 16. 1, of King Attalus and the Sicyonians, where only personal  agency is implied in the middle, τὴν ἱερὰν χώραν τοῦ Ἀπόλλωνος  ἐλυτρώσατο χρημάτων αὐτοῖς οὐκ ὀλίγων . See note, 1 Timothy 2:6 ; and cf. ref. 1 Pet., where the price is stated to have been the precious blood of Christ)  us from all lawlessness (see reff. and especially 1 John 3:4 , ἡ ἁμαρτία ἐστὶν ἡ ἀνομία  and might purify (there is no need to supply ἡμᾶς , though the sense is not disturbed by so doing. By making λαόν the direct object of καθαρίζῃ , the purpose of the Redeemer is lifted off from our particular case, and generally and objectively stated)  to Himself (‘dat. commodi’)  a people (object: not, as De W., Wies., al., predicate, ‘(us) for a people’)  peculiarly His (see note on Ephesians 1:14 , and cf. the reff. here in the LXX, from which the expression is borrowed. See also 1 Peter 2:9 , and Ellicott here. The ἐξειλεγμένον of Chrys., though expressing the fact, says too much for the word, as also does the  acceptabilis of the Vulg.:  egregium of Jerome, too little: the οἰκεῖον of Thdrt. is exact: that which περίεστιν αὐτῷ ),  zealous (an ardent worker and promoter)  of good works .