 3 .]  The aged women (= πρεσβύτεραι , 1 Timothy 5:2 , there being in this case here no official term to occasion confusion)  likewise (after the same general pattern, to which the separate virtues above mentioned belong)  in deportment (cf. Porphyr. de abst. in Wetst., τὸ δὲ σεμνὸν κἀκ τοῦ  καταστήματος ἑωρᾶτο . πορεία τε γὰρ ἦν εὔτακτος , καὶ βλέμμα καθεστηκὸς ἐπετηδεύετο , ὡς ὅτε βουληθεῖεν μὴ σκαρδαμύττειν · γέλως δὲ σπάνιος , εἰ δέ που γένοιτο , μέχρι μειδιασμοῦ . ἀεὶ δὲ ἐντὸς τοῦ σχήματος αἱ χεῖρες . The κατάστημα would thus iuclude  gesture and habit , more than καταστολή of 1Ti 2:9 ),  reverend (two examples, of those given by Wetst., seem nearest to touch the meaning of the word here as connected with outward deportment: the one from Jos. Antt. xi. 8. 5, describing the High Priest Jaddus going forth to meet Alexander the Great, πυθόμενος δ ʼ αὐτὸν οὐ πόῤῥω τῆς πόλεως , πρόεισι μετὰ τῶν ἱερέων καὶ τοῦ πολιτικοῦ πλήθους , ἱεροπρεπῆ καὶ διαφέρουσαν τῶν ἄλλων ἐθνῶν ποιούμενος τὴν ὑπάντησιν … τὸ μὲν πλῆθος ἐν ταῖς λευκαῖς ἐσθῆσι , τοὺς δὲ ἱερεῖς προεστῶτας ἐν ταῖς βυσσίναις αὐτῶν , τὸν δὲ ἀρχιερέα ἐν τῇ ὑακινθίνῃ καὶ διαχρύσῳ στολῇ : the other from Plato, Theagcs, § 3, p.’ 262, Θεαγὴς ὄνομα τούτῳ , ὦ Σώκρατες . Καλόν γε , ὦ Δημόδοκε , τῷ υἱεῖ τὸ ὄνομα ἔθηκες καὶ  ἱεροπρεπές ),  not slanderers (see reff. 1 Tim. and note),  nor yet enslaved (so προσέχοντας , 1Ti 3:8 )  to much wine (this vice may be included in the character given of the Cretans above, ch. Tit 1:12 ),  teachers of that which is good, that they school (see on σωφρονισμός , 2 Timothy 1:7 .
	The occurrence of ἵνα here with a pres. indic. in the best MSS. is remarkable especially as the only other instances of this construction in St. Paul, 1Co 4:6 and Galatians 4:17 (see notes there), may be accounted for on the hypothesis of an unusual (provincial) formation of the subjunctive, being both verbs in - όω . If this reading is to stand, it would shew that that hypothesis is unnecessary, and that St. Paul did really write the indic pres. after ἵνα : see also 1 John 5:20 . Cf. Winer, edn. 6, § 41 b. 1. c. If he did thus write it, it may be questioned whether he intended to convey any sense very distinct from the pres. subj.: perhaps more immediate and assumed sequence may be indicated: but it is hardly possible to join logically in the mind a causal particle with a pres. indic.)  the young women to be lovers of their husbands, lovers of their children, discreet (this term certainly applies better to women than  self-restrained : there is in this latter, in their case, an implication of  effort , which destroys the spontaneity, and brushes off, so to speak, the bloom of this best of female graces. See, however, note on 1 Timothy 2:9 . The word is one of our greatest difficulties),  chaste, workers at home (the word is not found elsewhere, and has perhaps on that account been changed to the more usual one οἰκουρούς . It is hardly possible that for so common a word οἰκουργούς should have been substituted. If the rec. is retained, ‘keepers at home’ will be signified: so Dio Cass. lvi. p. 391 (Wetst.), πῶς οὐκ ἄριστον γυνὴ σώφρων , οἰκουρός , οἰκονόμος , παιδοτρόφος ; see Elsner’s note on the word, in which he shews that, as might be expected, the ideas of ‘keeping at home’ and ‘guarding the house’ are both included: so Chrys.: ἡ οἰκουρὸς γυνὴ καὶ σώφρων ἔσται · ἡ οἰκουρὸς καὶ οἰκονομικὴ · οὔτε περὶ τρυφήν , οὔτε περὶ ἐξόδους ἀκαίρους , οὔτε περὶ ἄλλων τῶν τοιούτων ἀσχοληθήσεται ),  good (Thl. joins this with οἰκουρούς οἰκουρὸς ἀγαθή . So also Syr. But it seems better to preserve the series of single epithets till broken in the next clause by the construction. As a single epithet (reff.) it seems to provide, as Heydenr., that their keeping, or working, at home, should not degenerate into churlishness or niggardliness),  in subjection to their own (inserted to bring out and impress the duties they owe to them so in Eph 5:22 )  husbands, that the word of God (the Gospel)  be not ill-spoken of ( τὸ γὰρ προφάσει θεοσεβείας καταλιμπάνεν τοὺς ἄνδρας , βλασφημίαν ἔφερε τῷ κηρύγματι , Thdrt.).