 6 ff.]  The younger men in like manner exhort to be self-restrained (see above Titus 2:5 , and 1 Timothy 2:9 , note),  shewing thyself (the use of σεαυτόν with παρέχεσθαι is somewhat remarkable, but borne out by Xen. in reff. The account of it seems to be, that παρέχεσθαι τύπον would be the regular expression for ‘to set an example,’ the personal action of the subject requiring the middle (see Krüger, p. 363): and, this being so, the form of such expression is not altered, even where ἑαυτόν is expressed in apposition with τύπον . Cf. Ellic.’s note)  in (‘  about ,’ ‘  in reference to ’ (reff.): a meaning of περί with the acc. derived from its local meaning of ‘  round about :’ see Winer, edn. 6, § 49, i.)  all matters (not masc. sing.)  an example ( κοινὸν διδασκαλεῖον καὶ ὑπόδειγμα ἀρετῆς ἡ τοῦ σοῦ βίου λαμπρότης ἔστω , οἷόν τις εἰκὼν ἀρχέτυπος πᾶσι προκειμένη τοῖς βουλομένοις ἐναπομάξασθαι τῶν ἐν αὐτῇ καλῶν , Thl.)  of good works (reff.),  in thy teaching ( παρεχόμενος )  incorruption (it is difficult exactly to fix the reference of  ἀφθορία (or ἀδιαφθορία , which means much the same). It may be objective of the  contents of the teaching that it should set forth purity as its character and aim: or subjective, that  he should be, in his teaching , pure in motive, uncorrupted: so Wiesinger, comparing 2 Corinthians 11:3 , μή τως … φθαρῇ τὰ νοήματα ὑμῶν ἀπὸ τῆς ἁπλότητος τῆς εἰς τὸν χριστόν . Huther takes it of the  form of the teaching, that it should be pure from all expressions foreign to the character of the Gospel. This is perhaps hardly satisfactory: and the first interpretation would bring it too near in meaning to λόγον ὑγιῆ which follows),  gravity, a discourse (in its contents and import)  healthy, not to be condemned, that he of the opposite part ( τὸν ἐξ ἐναντίας φησὶ καὶ τὸν διάβολον καὶ πάντα τὸν ἐκείνῳ διακονούμενον , Chr. But the former idea is hardly before the Apostle’s mind, from Titus 2:5 , in which  the Gospel being evil spoken of was represented as the point to be avoided. Cf. also 1 Timothy 6:1 ; 1Ti 5:14 ; 2 Timothy 2:25 . It is rather the heathen or Jewish adversaries of the Gospel, among whom they dwelt)  may be ashamed (reff.),  having nothing (  μη δέν , because, following the ἔχων , it is subjective to him, the adversary. We should say, οὐδέν ἐστιν ὅ τι ἂν λέγῃ , but μηδὲν ἔχων λέγειν : in the former the objective fact, in the latter the subjective deficiency, is brought out)  to say of us (Christians: not ‘me and thee’) (  that is )  evil (in our acts: φαῦλος is never used with λέγειν , nor of words, in the N. T., but always of  deeds : ‘having no evil thing to report of us’ no evil, whether seen in our demeanour, or arising from our teaching).