11. Where—Translate,
	"Wherein," namely, in the sphere of the renewed man. 
	neither . . . nor . . . nor .
	. . nor—Translate as Greek, "There is no such
	thing as Greek and Jew (the difference of privilege
	between those born of the natural seed of Abraham and those not, is
	abolished), circumcision and uncircumcision (the difference of
	legal standing between the circumcised and uncircumcised is done
	away, Galatians 6:15) —bondman,
	freeman." The present Church is one called out of the flesh,
	and the present world-course (Galatians 6:15- :), wherein such distinctions exist, to life in the Spirit, and
	to the future first resurrection: and this because Satan has such
	power now over the flesh and the world. At Christ's coming when Satan
	shall no longer rule the flesh and the world, the nations in the
	flesh, and the word in millennial felicity, shall be the willing
	subjects of Christ and His glorified saints (Daniel 7:14;
	Daniel 7:22; Daniel 7:27;
	Luke 19:17; Luke 19:19;
	Revelation 20:1-6; Revelation 3:21).
	Israel in Canaan was a type of that future state when the Jews, so
	miraculously preserved distinct now in their dispersion, shall be the
	central Church of the Christianized world. As expressly as Scripture
	abolishes the distinction of Jew and Greek now as to religious
	privileges, so does it expressly foretell that in the coming new
	order of things, Israel shall be first of the Christian nations, not
	for her own selfish aggrandizement, but for their good, as the medium
	of blessing to them. Finally, after the millennium, the life that is
	in Christ becomes the power which transfigures nature, in the
	time of the new heaven and the new earth; as, before, it first
	transfigured the spiritual, then the political and social world. 
	Scythian—heretofore
	regarded as more barbarian than the barbarians. Though the relation
	of bond and free actually existed, yet in relation to Christ, all
	alike were free in one aspect, and servants of Christ in another
	(1 Corinthians 7:22; Galatians 3:28).
	Christ is all—Christ
	absorbs in Himself all distinctions, being to all alike, everything
	that they need for justification, sanctification, and glorification
	(1 Corinthians 1:30; 1 Corinthians 3:21-23;
	Galatians 2:20). 
	in all—who believe and
	are renewed, without distinction of person; the sole distinction now
	is, how much each draws from Christ. The unity of the divine life
	shared in by all believers, counterbalances all differences, even as
	great as that between the polished "Greek" and the
	rude "Scythian." Christianity imparts to the most
	uncivilized the only spring of sound, social and moral culture.