James 3:5.  Even so. Now follows the application of the two illustrations. If we rule our tongues, we govern the whole man; for the tongue is to the man what the bit is to the horse, or the helm to the ship.
	 the tongue is a little member: the reference being to the smallness of the helm. The tongue is small in proportion to the whole body, and to many of its members.
	 and boasteth great things: boasteth, instead of worketh or doeth, because boasting is specially applicable to the tongue. The word is not here, however, employed to denote a vain ostentation; for, as is evident from the context, the tongue not only boasteth great things, but makes good its boasts. Hence the meaning is, ‘exerts immense influence.’
	 Behold how great a matter: or ‘forest,’ as it is in the Greek, suited to the lively and figurative style of St. James.
	 a little fire kindleth. A single spark may set a whole forest on fire, as is often the case with the forests of America. The reading of manuscripts is here different. Some MSS.   read, ‘How great a fire kindleth a great forest;’ the allusion being to the greatness of the conflagration, whilst the smallness of the spark is left out of consideration. Some critics translate the words without any reference to size: ‘What a fire kindles what a forest’ The reading in our version is to be preferred, as being best adapted to the apostle’s train of thought, bringing prominently forward the smallness of the fire(comp. Psalms 83:14; Isaiah 9:18). We are here taught, most emphatically, the power of the tongue. Speech is that which distinguishes man from the inferior animals. It is a powerful instrument for good or evil. On the side of good it preaches the Gospel, pleads the cause of the innocent and oppressed, stirs up to the performance of noble deer’s, diffuses the light of truth, procures liberty to the captive, comforts the sad and sorrowful, and supports the dying in their last moments. Sweet waters flow from this fountain of humanity. But bitter waters also flow. On the side of evil the tongue sows the seeds of moral pestilence and death, corrupts men’s morals, spreads the leaven of wickedness, persuades to vice and all manner of sin, diffuses the poison of infidelity and ungodliness, gives rise to bitter contentions, dissolves friendships, disturbs the peace of a whole neighbourhood, and is not less powerful for evil than for good. ‘Many have fallen by the edge of the sword; but not so many as have fallen by the tongue’ ( Sir 28:18 ).
	