James 3:13. With this verse a new section of the Epistle apparently begins, and yet in strict connection with what precedes. The connection appears to be as follows: The want of command over our tongues argues a defect in wisdom and knowledge; so that if you do not govern your tongues, your boast of these qualities is a mere pretence.
	 Who is a wise man?  that is, Who among you professes to be such? The Jews were great pretenders to wisdom, and they as well as the Greek sophists gloried in the title of wise men; and indeed an assertion of wisdom is a general feature of the human race; humility is the rarest of virtues.
	 and endued with knowledge among you?  There is not much difference between these two epithets, ‘wise’ and ‘endued with knowledge.’ Some understand wisdom as intelligence generally, and knowledge as a practical insight which judges correctly in particular cases. But, if we were to distinguish them, we would rather say that wisdom denotes the adaptation of means to ends, and knowledge the acquisition of particular facts; the knowledge of facts constitutes the materials with which wisdom works.
	 let him show: let him make good his profession, let him prove his possession of wisdom and knowledge. out of, or rather ‘by,’  a good conversation, ‘by a holy conduct’ The word ‘conversation’ has altered its meaning since our translation was made; then it signified conduct, but now it is almost entirely restricted to speech.
	 his works with meekness of wisdom: not to be rendered ‘in a meek wisdom,’ or ‘in a wise meekness;’ but the genitive of possession, ‘in wisdom’s meekness,’ that is, in that meekness which is the proper attribute of true wisdom; the meekness which belongs to wisdom and proceeds from it. Compare the somewhat similar sentiment of the psalmist: ‘What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good? Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile’ (Psalms 34:12-13); for the meekness of wisdom is seen in the government of the tongue.
	