James 3:17.  But. Now follows a description of the heavenly wisdom in contrast to the earthly. The heavenly wisdom is described by seven qualities which, as has been well said, are ‘nothing but the seven colours of the one ray of light of heavenly truth which has appeared and been revealed in Christ Himself the Wisdom of God.’
	 the wisdom which is from above is first, in the first place. Purity is its primary quality; all other qualities of heavenly wisdom are subservient to this. We must, however, beware of perverting this remark in the interests of intolerance and party-strife; these are the bitter fruits, not of heavenly, but of earthly wisdom.
	 pure, free from all impure and corrupt mixtures; separated from everything that offends; no stain of sin must pollute it; everything that is morally evil is abhorrent to its nature. The word is to be taken in its widest sense, as all sin is impurity.
	 then peaceable, opposed to envy and party-strife; desirous to make and maintain peace. The spirit of love will cause us, as much as possible, to live peaceably with all men; instead of strife there will be a readiness to be reconciled.
	 gentle, kind, forbearing, considerate, making every allowance for the ignorance and frailties of others, imitating the character of Him who is meek and lowly ‘the gentle Jesus.’
	 easy to be intreated, or rather, easy to be persuaded, willing to be reconciled when differences arise, and always ready to meet its opponents half way. full of mercy and good fruits, benevolent, compassionate to the afflicted, charitable to the poor, ready to extend relief and assistance to the destitute.
	 without partiality. This has been variously rendered. Some, ‘without contending,’ not entering into controversy; others, ‘without judging,’ not finding fault with others; others, ‘not making a difference,’ that is, impartial. Perhaps the most correct meaning, and most in accordance with the doctrine of St. James, is, ‘without wavering or doubting;’ not feeble or changeable, ‘without vacillation(see Note on James 2:4).
	 and without hypocrisy, without pretence, showing a naturalness in behaviour, meaning all the kindness it   expresses, without affectation, its actions being in accordance with its words.
	