James 3:2.  For: the reason assigned for the second clause of the last verse.
	 in many things: to be taken generally ‘in many particulars:’ not to be restricted to the offences of the tongue; the restriction follows in the latter part of the verse.
	 we offend: literally, ‘we trip or stumble.’ Human life is represented as a way, and particular actions as steps in that way; and hence acting amiss is represented as stumbling. Believers, though they may not actually fall, often stumble.
	 all: a strong expression in the Greek; ‘we, all without exception.’
	 If any offend not in word  stumble not in his speech,  the same is a perfect man. By ‘a perfect man,’ here and elsewhere in Scripture, is not meant a man who is absolutely free from sin, but one who is comparatively perfect. Thus Noah, Abraham, and Job were called perfect in their generations; and of Zacharias and Elizabeth it is said that ‘they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless’ (Luke 1:6). Hence, then, a perfect man is a man who has attained to a high degree of holiness. And certainly a man, whose words are inoffensive, may have his imperfections, but, compared with those who have little command over their tongues, who give an unbridled licence to their speech, he is a perfect man. ‘He that can rule his tongue shall life without strife’ ( Sir 19:6 ).
	 and able also to bridle his whole body: qualified to keep the body under subjection; that is, has obtained the mastery over himself, inasmuch as it is more difficult to bridle the tongue than to control the actions of the life. A man’s character is known by his words: ‘Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh’ (Matthew 12:34): even as the nature of a fountain is known by the quality of the stream which issues from it. Hence the wise saying of Socrates, ‘Speak, that I may know thee.’ Offences of the tongue are the most common of all offences. ‘There is one that slippeth in his speech, but not from his heart; and who is he that hath not offended with his tongue?’ ( Sir 19:16 ). Even the meekness of Moses was violated by a rash word: ‘he spake unadvisedly with his lips’ (Psalms 106:33).
	