Romans 5:1.  Therefore being justified.  The connection is with chap. Romans 4:25, but through this with the whole   argument in the second division (chaps. Romans 3:21 to Romans 4:25). The single act of justification is indicated in the original. The sense ‘make righteous,’ is altogether inappropriate here, destroying the whole force of the Apostle’s inference.
	 Let us have; or, ‘we have.’ The two senses are represented in Greek by two forms of the same verb, which differ only in a single letter (long or short  ο)  .  The weight of authorities is decidedly in favor of the form which must be translated, ‘let us have.’ But there are considerations which weigh in favor of the other reading: (1.) The early transcribers frequently interchanged long and short  o;  (2.) The form ‘let us have,’ if once occurring, would be retained, because the doctrine of justification was early obscured, and this form is not so confident as the other; (3.) the exhortation seems inappropriate here. These reasons are so strong, that many who would not, in other cases, hesitate to give way to manuscript authority, here retain the reading: ‘we have.’ But it is safer to follow the better supported reading, and to give it the sense: ‘let us have peace,’ in full measure, let us accept fully what God has provided for us; comp. Hebrews 12:28: ‘let us have grace.’ The sense of Romans 5:2-3 is affected by this reading.
	 Peace with God.  Not, ‘toward God.’   We are, as a result of justification, no longer under condemnation (chap. Romans 8:1): God is at peace with us. Our feeling towards Him may and ought to correspond; but it is subject to change. God’s relation to us is the great matter; on that is based true peace of conscience. When God has accepted the believing sinner as righteous, He looks at him as in Christ, who is our Peace (Ephesians 2:14-16). The hindrance to peace has been removed by the death of Christ; God’s wrath against our sin is removed. Peace that does not rest upon this great fact is a dream and a delusion.
	 Through our Lord Jesus Christ.  This full form gives a tone of triumph to the verse. This personal Lord has made peace, satisfied justice, removed the curse, made it possible for a holy God to be righteous in accounting righteous those, who by nature and character, are sinners. God is love, He first loved the world, but loved it  in this way,  that He gave His only begotten Son (John 3:16); through this Son of His love, we have peace with God.
	