Romans 5:11.  And not only so. Not only have we been reconciled. Some explain: not only shall we be saved; but this is not so grammatical, since the participle ‘rejoicing’ (glorying) is the correct reading in the next clause. This verse then introduces the side of human feeling. The reconciliation is God’s act, it gives assurance of complete salvation in the living Christ; but this produces present joy, triumph, glory (comp. Romans 5:2-3).
	 Rejoicing in God. The verb is the same as in Romans 5:2-3, rendered in three different ways in the E. V. (The correct reading requires us to connect this verse more closely with the preceding; see foot-note.) Our glory is this: ‘that God is ours, and we are His, and that we have in all confidence all blessings in common from Him and with Him’ (Luther).
	 Through our Lord Jesus Christ.  No glorying that we have as Christians comes to us other than through Him. He reconciles God to us, but He also reconciles us to God; for it is through Him  we have now  received the reconciliation. In itself ‘the reconciliation’ primarily means a new relation of God to us, not a moral change in us. The article points to the well-known reconciliation, spoken of in Romans 5:10. But here the Apostle directly refers to the believing act of reception and appropriation. ‘Our’ is open to the objection that it suggests too exclusively a reconciliation on our part, which exclusive reference is forbidden by the word ‘received.’ When we were justified by faith, we received this reconciliation, it became ours, through our Lord Jesus Christ who procured it for us, and who by being our personal Saviour makes us glory in God. Thus is completed the circle of thought began in Romans 5:1-2.
	The word ‘atonement,’ found here in the English version, has led to much useless discussion. Within the last half century voluminous controversies have been carried on, which failed to recognize the mistranslation, or recognizing it ignored it in the interest of dogmatic prejudices. The reader must bear in mind the following facts: (1.) That the word corresponds with that rendered (twice) ‘reconciled’ in Romans 5:10; hence ‘reconciliation’ is in any case preferable. (2.) ‘Atonement’ in its  old  sense (= at-one-ment) meant ‘reconciliation,’ but does  not  now mean this. (3.) It is now a technical term applied to the death of Christ, as an expiation, propitiation, satisfaction (see chap. Romans 3:25). All arguments as to the nature of the atonement which fail to recognize these linguistic facts, imply ignorance or dishonesty; neither of which should characterize one reconciled to God.
	