Romans 5:20.  But the law. The Mosaic law is meant, although the article is wanting in the original. ‘What of the law then?’ was the question the Jew, and, indeed, any early Christian would ask. ‘But’ is therefore preferable to ‘and.’
	 Came in besides.  The same phrase is used in a bad sense, Galatians 2:4, but here it indicates coming in addition to, not coming in between, though the latter is true.
	 That the trespass might multiply.  This was the immediate, but not the final purpose (see Romans 5:21). The Apostle says ‘trespass’ not ‘sin,’ because the design of the law was not to multiply sin as such, but to make it appear, to reveal it to the conscience, as a transgression of the law of God. Yet the presence of the law does provoke to sin, and this thought is not to be ruled out in this passage.
	 But where sin multiplied.  In the very sphere, in the world of men where ‘sin’ (as a power, tyrant).
	 Grace exceedingly abounded;  ‘over-abounded.’ The verb is a compound one, differing in form entirely from that previously used; the force of ‘over’ is superlative, not comparative. Hence we substitute ‘exceedingly’ for ‘much more.’ This clause is explained in Romans 5:21. Romans 5:21.  That as sin reigned in death.  The ultimate purpose of the exceeding abounding of grace is set forth in this verse, especially in the last clause. The first clause simply takes up the other side of the parallel. In Romans 5:14 death is represented as the tyrant, here ‘sin’ is presented under the same figure, ‘death’ being the sphere of its dominion or tyranny, and referring to all the penal consequences of sin. Some would render ‘by death,’ but this is objectionable.
	 So also might grace reign.  This is the purpose. ‘The design of God in permitting sin, and allowing it to abound was to bring good out of evil; to make it the occasion of the most wonderful display of his glory and grace, so that the benefits of redemption should infinitely transcend the evil of the apostacy’ (Hodge).
	 Through righteousness.  This refers to imputed righteousness, in conformity with the entire course of thought. Righteousness of life might be included, but cannot be the main idea.
	 Unto eternal life.  ‘Life’ in contrast with ‘death,’ and ‘eternal’ in contrast with temporal. Physical death is not abolished, but grace reigns through righteousness, eternal life as the result.
	 Through Jesus Christ our Lord.  This full form is solemnly triumphant. Adam is lost sight of; the personal redeemer, the king, is the One through whom grace reigns through righteousness unto eternal life. ‘  Sin, death, grace, righteousness, life.  These five stand thus: Grace rises highest in the middle; the two conquering giants, sin and death at the left; the double prize of victory, righteousness and life, at the right; and over the buried name of Adam the glory of the name of Jesus blooms’ (Besser).
	