 8. ] I believe that the right sense of these words,  ὅσοι ἦλθον πρὸ ἐμοῦ  , has not been apprehended by any of the Commentators.
	First, they can only be honestly understood of  time: all  who came  before  me (not, “  without regard to me ,” Olsh. &c., nor “  passing by me as the door ,” Camer., nor “  instead of me ,” Lampe, &c.: nor “  pressing before me ,” ch. John 5:7 , which would have been ἔρχονται , not ἦλθ .: nor “before taking the trouble to find me, the door,” Stier, iv. 492, edn. 2: nor any other of the numerous shifts which have been adopted).
	 What pretended teachers then came before Christ? Remember the connexion of these discourses. He has taught the Jews that Abraham and the Prophets  entered by Him (ch. Joh 8:56 ): but He has set in strong opposition to Himself and His, them (these Jews) and their father,  the Devil (ib. Joh 8:44 ).  He was “the first thief who clomb into God’s fold;” and all his followers are here spoken of inclusively in the language of the allegory, as coming in by and with  him . His was the first attempt to lead human nature,  before Christ came; before the series of dispensations of grace began, in which pasture and life is offered to man by Him.
	Meyer understands the Pharisees, &c. who taught the people before Christ  appeared as the Door of the sheep: but this does not seem to reach the depth of the requirements of the saying.
	 εἰσίν  , not ἦσαν , because their essential nature as belonging to and being of the evil one is set forth, and the inclusion of these present Pharisees in their ranks.
	 ἀλλ  ʼ   οὐκ  … ] This of course cannot be understood absolutely, ‘  the sheep never for one moment listened to them; ’ but, did not listen to them in the sense of becoming their disciples eventually. So that the fall of our first Parents would be no exception to this; whom of all men we must conclude, by the continuing grace and mercy of God to them after that fall, to have been of His real sheep. And since then, the same is true; however the sheep may for a while listen to these false shepherds, they do not  hear them , so as to follow them. Those who do, belong not to the true flock.
	Joh 10:9 expands and fixes John 10:7 . “Non est salutaris aditus in ecclesiam, nisi per me, sive pastor esse velis, sive ovis.” Erasmus, Paraphr. See Numbers 27:16-17 . The sequel of the verse shews that this combined meaning is the true one. Meyer, who understands it all of  shepherds alone , finds great difficulty in the interpretation of the latter words: “shall go in and out  before the sheep , and find pasture  for them .”
	Joh 10:10 shews the gracious intent of the Saviour in this; to  give life , and in  abundance . This verse forms the transition from Him as ἡ θύρα , to Him as ὁ ποιμήν . He is here set in opposition to ὁ κλέπτης (see on Joh 10:8 ), and thus insensibly passes into the place of a ποιμήν , who has been hitherto thus opposed. Then the  ζωὴν ἔχωσιν binds on to νομὴν εὑρήσει and  καὶ περισ  .   ἔχ  .: q. d. not merely as a door to pass through, but actively, abundantly, to  bestow abundance of life. We are thus prepared for ( Joh 10:11 ) the announcement of Himself as  ὁ ποιμὴν ὁ καλός the great antagonist of ὁ κλέπτης the pattern and Head of all good shepherds, as  he of all thieves and robbers: the Messiah, in His best known and most loving office: cf. Ezekiel 34:11-16 ; Ezekiel 34:23 ; Ezekiel 37:24 , and Isaiah 40:11 . But He is  ὁ π  .   ὁ κ  . in this verse, as having most eminently  the qualities of a good shepherd, one of which is to  lay down His life for the sheep. These words here are not so much a prophecy, as a declaration, implying however that which Joh 10:15 asserts explicitly.