 ΑΠΟΚΑΛΥΨΙΣ ΙΩΑΝΝΟΥ
	 1 3 .] SUPERSCRIPTION: in which the contents and Writer of the book are declared, and the importance of its subject indicated by a blessing on those who shall read and hear it.
	 The Revelation (  ἀποκάλυψίς ἐστιν ἡ τῶν ἱερῶν μυστηρίων δήλωσις , καταυγαζομένου τοῦ ἡγεμονικοῦ τῆς ψυχῆς , εἴτε διὰ θείων ὀνειράτων , εἴτε καθ ʼ ὕπαρ ἐκ θείας ἐλλάμψεως . Arethas. Here, the word need not be taken in any but this its general sense, as in 2 Corinthians 12:1 , where it is plural; the particular purpose of this revelation follows, with the inf. δεῖξαι below, ἀποκάλυψις is one of those words which have passed, in their later usage, from indicating the  act , to signify that with which the act is concerned: so καύχησις , 2 Corinthians 1:12 ; 2 Corinthians 7:14 . Jerome on Galatians 1:11-12 , vol. vii. p. 387, says: “Verbum ipsum ἀποκαλύψεως , id est, revelationis, proprie scripturarum est, et a nullo sapientum sæculi apud Græcos usurpatum.” But Plutarch, de placit. philos. i. 7, τίς ἐστιν ὁ θεός , says that Euripides was an atheist, but ἀποκαλύψασθαι οὐκ ἠθέλησε , δεδοικως τὸν ἄρειον πάγον . Porphyry’s use of the word, vit. Plotin. c. 16, is no exception. It is said to be later Greek for  ἀνακαλ .)  of Jesus Christ (how is this genitive to be understood? Is our Lord the subject or the object? Clearly here the former: for it is not Christ who is here revealed, except in a remote sense: but Christ who reveals, as is plain in what follows: see also ref. Ebrard makes the gen.  possessive , which comes to the same thing. Heinrichs understands ἀποκ . Ἰ . χρ . of the appearance of our Lord which is related below, after St. Paul’s manner (but not in 2Co 12:1 ), and St. Peter’s (reff.: and 1 Peter 4:13 ; 1Pe 5:1 ), see also Luke 17:30 . But see below. The not very important distinctions between ἀποκάλυψις and its result προφητεία are laid down at great length in Hengstenberg, h. 1.),  which God (the Father)  gave to Him (Stern asks, “How are we to understand this? Is not Christ very God, of one essence with the Father from eternity? Did He not, by virtue of the omniscience of His divine nature, know as exactly as the Father, what should be the process of the world’s history, what the fate of the Church? What purpose was served by a revelation from God to Jesus?” He proceeds to say that the words cannot refer merely to the revelation as made to  us , but are clearly against such an interpretation: and gives, at some length and very well, that which in one form or other all will accept as the true explanation, in accordance with John 7:16 ; John 14:10 ; John 17:7-8 . The man Christ Jesus, even in his glorified state, receives from the Father, by his hypostatic union with Him, that revelation which by His Spirit He imparts to His Church. For, Acts 1:7 , the times and seasons are kept by the Father in his own power: and of the day and the hour knoweth no man, not the angels in heaven, nor even the Son, but the Father only, Mark 13:32 . I may observe, that the coincidence in statement of this deep point of doctrine between the Gospel of St. John and the Apocalypse, is at least remarkable),  to shew (is this infinitive of the purpose dependent on ἔδωκεν , or on the subst. ἀποκάλυψις ? Is it the purpose of God in giving, or the purpose of the revelation in revealing, that is asserted? At all events, Heinrichs is wrong, who takes ἣν ἔδωκεν δεῖξαι together, “  which God gave (empowered)  Him to shew.” But of the others, the construction with ἔδωκεν is the more probable, as being the more usual: “that He might shew,” &c.  δεῖξαι must not here be confined to its stricter meaning of shewing in vision, as Hengst.; for then, as De W. remarks, we must confine τοῖς δούλοις αὐτ . to the Apocalyptic Seer alone: but must be taken in its wider sense of exhibiting as knowledge, informing of. So in Matthew 16:21 ; where however Hengst. strangely denies this meaning, and upholds that of prove, demonstrate: which our Lord did not do till after His resurrection)  to His (  Christ’s , most probably, as below in this verse, and in ref.: for thus the αὐτός is kept to the same subject throughout)  servants (here meaning all Christians, not, as Hengst., prophets only: indeed his sense of δεῖξαι , which necessitates this, brings confusion into the whole sentence. That John himself is one of these δοῦλοι below, does not affect this general meaning)  what things must (by the necessity of the divine decree: see besides reff., Matthew 17:10 , al.)  come to pass shortly (i. e. ‘  before long :’ see reff. especially Luke. The context, the repetition below, ὁ γὰρ καιρὸς ἐγγύς , and the parallel ch. Revelation 22:6 , followed Rev 22:7 by ἰδοὺ ἔρχομαι ταχύ , fix this meaning here, as distinguished from the other of ‘  swiftly ,’ which indeed would be hardly intelligible with the historic aorist γενέσθαι . This expression, as De W. well remarks, must not be urged to signify that the events of apocalyptic prophecy were to be close at hand: for we have a key to its meaning in Luke 18:7-8 , where our Lord says, ὁ δὲ θεὸς οὐ μὴ ποιήσει τὴν ἐκδίκησιν τῶν ἐκλεκτῶν αὐτοῦ τῶν βοώντων αὐτῷ ἡμέρας κ . νυκτός ,  καὶ μακροθυμεῖ ἐπ  ʼ   αὐτοῖς  ; λέγω ὑμῖν ὅτι ποιήσει τὴν ἐκδίκησιν αὐτῶν  ἐν τάχει : where long delay is evidently implied. Hengstenberg repudiates this, and says it is self-evident that these words can only be adduced here “  nach unrichtigen Auslegung .” But surely the two cases are exactly parallel: and Hengst.’s strong language, here as elsewhere, proves nothing. His own interpretation of the words, natural as he seems to think it, is forced and unwarrantable. He (in common with many others) takes them to mean that the events spoken of would very soon  begin to take place. The axe, he says, lay at the root of the Roman Empire when John wrote this, as it did at the root of the Persian Empire when Daniel wrote. But this interpretation is not borne out by the Greek, ἃ δεῖ γενέσθαι ἐν τάχει is not “which must soon  begin to come to pass,” but, in the well-known sense of the aorist, “which, in their entirety, must soon come to pass:” γενέσθαι being in fact, a past tense, “must  have come to pass,” “be fulfilled:” so Bengel most truly, “Totus liber tanquam unum verbum uno momento pronunciatione debet accipi.” So that we are driven to the very same sense of ἐν τάχει as that in Luke 18:0 above, viz. to  God’s speedy time , though He seem to delay: in spite of the scorn which Hengst. pours on this meaning. His maxim, that a Prophet, speaking to men, must speak according to men’s ideas, is quite worthless, and may be confuted by any similar prophetic saying, even by the one which he brings in its favour, Haggai 2:7 ; and his complaint, that thus we make the Seer and even the Lord Himself like bad physicians who delude their patients with false hopes (so, in the main, Stern also), is unworthy of a Christian Expositor, after our Lord’s own plain use of the same method of speech again and again in His prophecies in the Gospels and in this book. It remains to observe, that these words cannot with any fairness be used as furnishing a guide to the interpretation of the prophecy. They are far rather to be regarded as a prophetic formula (see Beza), common with him to whom a thousand years are as one day, and used in order to teach us how short our time, and the time of this our world, is. See, on the whole, Ebrard’s able note, and his remarks on the absurdity of Hengstenberg’s pressing the words in favour of his præterist scheme.
	τὴν ἔκβασιν δὲ τῶν χρηματιζομένων ἐν τάχει ὑπισχνεῖται προβῆναι , οὐχ ὡς ἔτυχεν , ἀλλὰ παραμετρῶν τὰ ἀνθρώπινα τοῖς θείοις , οἷς καὶ τἀ πολυχρονίως καὶ χιλιαστῶς ἐκτελούμενα ὡς ἡ χθὲς ἡμέρα , καὶ ἡ ἐν νυκτὶ φυλακὴ κρίνεται . Arethas. There is a profitable and consolatory exegesis of the words in Ambrose Ansbert, B. P. M. ix. pt. 2, p. 310. Dionysius of Alexandria, as cited in Eus [1] H. E. vii. 25, omits the words ἃ δεῖ γενέσθαι , joining δεῖξαι with ἐν τάχει );  and He ( Ἰησοῦς χριστός , not ὁ θεός , see ch. Revelation 22:16 ; the subject is changed, and the relative construction abandoned. So almost all Commentators)  signified (  it ) (it is remarkable (see reff.), that with one exception, this prophetic use of σημαίνω is confined in the N. T. to the Evangelist St. John)  sending by His angel (the aor. part. is contemporary with the aor. verb, not necessarily antecedent to it. ἀποστ . διὰ , as in reff. No word, as τὴν ἀποκάλυψιν , need be supplied, the verb being used absolutely after the manner of the Heb. שָׁלַח בְּיָד of Exo 4:13 and ref. 2 Kings. Still less must διὰ be taken with ἐσήμανεν , as Hengst.
	 [1] Eusebius, Bp. of Cæsarea, 315 320
	The Angel mentioned is perhaps the same who informs the Seer in ch. Revelation 17:1 ; Revelation 17:7 ; Revelation 17:15 , Revelation 19:9 , Revelation 21:9 , Revelation 22:1 ; Revelation 22:6 , which latter place takes up this; Revelation 22:8 ff.; and who is spoken of by our Lord Revelation 22:16 . It is remarkable that this angel does not appear as the imparter of the visions until ch. 17. Some indeed, as Ewald, have fancied that they trace his presence in ch. Rev 4:1 and throughout: but ch. Rev 17:1 is too manifestly the introduction to a new appearance for this to be the case; and previously to that the Seer receives his information from different persons. Our Lord Himself opens the Apocalyptic vision. It is another voice which calls John up to the place of heavenly vision, ch. Revelation 4:1 . In Revelation 7:13 , one of the four and twenty elders speaks to him; in Revelation 10:8 , it is the former voice again which addresses him, and in Revelation 10:9 , it is the angel who stands on the earth and the sea that gives him the book. Only in the great close of the prophecy, opening with ch. 17, does one angel stand by him; referred to, as here, under the name ὁ ἄγγελος . In the visions of Daniel and Zechariah an angel mediated: Daniel 8:16 ; Daniel 9:20 ; Daniel 10:10 ff., Zechariah 1:1 ; Zechariah 1:19 , al.)  to His servant John (on the whole question of the writer of the book, see prolegomena),