 10, 11 .]  I was (on  ἐγενόμην , see above. Not merely “  I was ,” but “  I became ”)  in the Spirit (i. e. in a state of spiritual ecstasy or trance, becoming thereby receptive of the vision or revelation to follow. That this is the meaning is distinctly shewn by the same phrase occurring in ch. Revelation 4:2 ; where after seeing the door open in heaven, and hearing the ἀνάβα ὧδε , he adds, εὐθέως ἐγενόμην ἐν πνεύματι . See also ch. Revelation 21:10 . Ebrard well says, “  Der Rapport mit der Umgebung durch die Sinne ist unterbrochen, und ein Rapport mit der unsichtbaren Welt tritt ein :” “connexion with surrounding objects through the senses is suspended, and a connexion with the invisible world established.” On the attempt made by some to give the words a different meaning, see below)  on the Lord’s day (i. e. on the first day of the week, kept by the Christian church as the weekly festival of the Lord’s resurrection. On any probable hypothesis of the date of this book, this is the earliest mention of the day by this name. This circumstance, coupled with an exegetical bias, has led certain modern interpreters, of whom as far as I know, Wetstein was the first, to interpret the words of the day of  the Lord’s coming , ἡ ἡμέρα τοῦ κυρίου . So Züllig, and in our own country, Drs. S. R. Maitland and Todd. But 1) the difficulty, of the thus early occurrence of this term, is no real one. Dr. Maitland says (see Todd’s Lectures on the Apoc., Note B, p. 295), “I know of nothing in the Scripture or in the works of the ante-Nicene Fathers on which to ground such an assumption.” To this we may answer, that the extent of Dr. Maitland’s knowledge of the ante-Nicene Fathers does not, happily for us, decide the question. For, while he repudiates passages “professedly (?) brought forward from Ignatius, Irenæus, &c.,” those of Tertullian (“die dominico jejunium nefas ducimus,” de coron. c. 3, vol. ii. p. 70: “quomodo dominica solennia celebrabimus,” de fug. pers. c. 14, p. 119), Dionysius of Corinth ( τὴν σήμερον οὖν κυριακὴν ἁγίαν ἡμέραν διηγάγομεν , ἐν ᾗ ἀνέγνωμεν ὑμῶν τὴν ἐπιστολήν , Eus [9] iv. 23), Julius Africanus ( τάχα τε σημαίνει τὸ πολυχρόνιον αὐτοῦ διὰ τὴν ὑπερκόσμων ὀγδοάδα , κυριακὴν ἡμέραν , de temp. 5), Epiphanius ( πῶς τε ἀπολύειν εἰς ἐπιφώσκουσαν κυριακήν , φανερόν ἐστι ; Hær. lxxv. 7, p. 910), Clem.-Alex [10] ( οὗτος ἐντολὴν τὴν κατὰ τὸ εὐαγγέλιον διαπραξάμενος κυριακὴν ἐκείνην τὴν ἡμέραν ποιεῖ , Strom. vii. 12 (76), p. 877 P.), are apparently unknown to him. Indeed he confesses (Todd, ut supra p. 301) to have found the word in Origen against Celsus viii. 22, vol. i. p. 758 ( ἐὰν δέ τις πρὸς ταῦτα ἀνθυποφέρῃ τὰ περὶ τῶν παρ ʼ ἡμῖν κυριακῶν , ἢ τοῦ πάσχα , ἢ τῆς πεντηκοστῆς …), and concedes that there may be many more places, but this does not modify his opinion, nor its adoption by his successor Dr. Todd. It may be well to cite the testimonies from Ignatius (ad Magnes. 9, p. 669, μηκέτι σαββατίζοντες , ἀλλὰ κατὰ κυριακὴν ζωὴν ζῶντες ) and Irenæus (in the Quæstt. ad Orthod. in the works of Justin Martyr, 115, ed. Otto, vol. iii., p. 180 f., τὸ ἐν τῇ κυριακῇ μὴ κλίνειν γόνυ , σύμβολόν ἐστι τῆς ἀναστάσεως .… ἐκ τῶν ἀποστολικῶν δὲ χρόνων ἡ τοιαύτη συνήθεια ἔλαβε τὴν ἀρχήν , καθώς φησιν ὁ μακάριος Εἰρηναῖος … ἐν τῷ περὶ τοῦ πάσχα λόγῳ , ἐν ᾧ μέμνηται καὶ περὶ τῆς πεντηκοστῆς , ἐν ᾗ οὐ κλίνομεν γόνυ , ἐπειδὴ ἰσοδυναμεῖ τῇ ἡμέρᾳ τῆς κυριακῆς κατὰ τὴν ῥηθεῖσαν περὶ αὐτῆς αἰτίαν ): whence it is hardly possible but that the word should have occurred in Irenæus. Mr. Elliott, Hor. Apoc. iv. 367 note, has pointed out that the Peschito renders οὐκ ἔστιν κυριακὸν δεῖπνον φαγεῖν , 1 Corinthians 11:20 , “not as befitteth the day of the Lord ye eat and drink” (Etheridge), which is an interesting proof of the early usage. This chronological objection being disposed of, and the matter 2) taken on its own merits, it really is astonishing how any even moderate Greek scholars can persuade themselves that the words can mean that which these Commentators maintain. They must be bold indeed who can render ἐγενόμην ἐν πνεύματι ἐν , “  I was transported by the Spirit (or,  in spirit )  into ,” in the face of ch. Revelation 4:2 ; and κυριακὴ ἡμέρα , “  the day of the Lord’s coming ,” in the face of the absence of a single precedent, and of the universal usage of the early Church. No such rendering would ever have been thought of, nor would it now be worth even a passing mention, were it not that an apocalyptic system has been built upon it.
	 [9] Eusebius, Bp. of Cæsarea, 315 320
	 [10]-Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	What Drs. M. and T. say of the art. τῇ as making for their sense, is really past comprehension! as it is, that Dr. T. should call it the  emphatic article. I need hardly remind students that it is in this connexion any thing but emphatic, being merely designative, as in ἐν τῇ σήμερον ἡμέρᾳ , Acts 20:26 ; τῇ ἐχομένῃ ἡμέρᾳ , Acts 21:26 ; ( ἐν ) τῇ ἐσχάτῃ ἡμέρᾳ , so often used by St. John in his Gospel. One day being known by the name κυριακή , any thing happening on it would be designated ordinarily as happening ἐν τῇ κυριακῇ ἡμέρᾳ , ἐν τῇ ἡμέρᾳ τῇ κυριακῇ , or, as ἡμέρα is one of those nouns which frequently lose the article, ἐν ἡμέρᾳ κυριακῇ . In either case, the meaning, as far as the sense of κυριακή is concerned, is precisely the same. Nor does either the art., or the use of the word κυριακή by Chrys. in that sense (? I have not been able to find it), make it probable that  Easter Sunday is meant):  and I heard behind me (cf. Isa 30:21 )  a voice (ref. Ezek.),  great as of a trumpet, saying (the trumpet is the instrument of festal proclamation, Numbers 10:10 ; Joel 2:15 , &c.: accompanies divine manifestations, Exodus 19:19 f.; Joel 2:1 ; Mat 24:31 ; 1 Thessalonians 4:16 . The similarity to the sound of the trumpet here was in the loudness and clearness of the voice: see also ch. Revelation 4:1 . From this latter it appears that this voice was not that of our Lord, but of one who there also spoke to the Apostle. Düsterd. remarks that the ὀπίσω μου leaves an indefiniteness as to the speaker),  What thou seest (the present carries on the action through the vision now opening, “  what thou art seeing ”)  write (forthwith: aor.)  into a book (the prep. of motion gives the transference from the writer to the document),  and send to the seven churches, to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamum, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea (for all particulars respecting these churches see the Prolegomena, § iii.).