 7, 8 .]  A solemn announcement of the coming of Christ , and  declaration, by way of ratification, of the majesty and omnipotence of God (see below).  Behold He (the Person last spoken of: the subject being continued from the preceding verses)  cometh with the clouds (  τῶν , viz. of heaven: so expressed in reff. Dan., and Mark: cf. ἐν τῇ νεφέλῃ , ch. Rev 11:12 ),  and every eye shall see Him (by a well-known figure, not merely Hebraistic but common to all tongues, the acting member is said to do that which the man does by its means. This is to be understood of the whole human race, risen and summoned before Him),  and (among them: the  καί does not couple a separate class, but selects a prominent one)  they which (  οἵτινες , of the whole class: almost = “whoever:” “all they who”)  pierced Him (see John 19:36 f. and note. As there St. John evidently shews what a deep impression the whole circumstance here referred to produced on his own mind, so it is remarkable here that he should again take up the prophecy of Zechariah (ref.) which he there cites, and speak of it as fulfilled. That this should be so, and that it should be done with the same word ἐξεκέντησαν , not found in the LXX of the passage, is a strong presumption that the Gospel and the Apocalypse were written by the same person. It is true, that Aquila, Symmachus, and Theodotion have used the verb ἐκκεντεῖν ; but this hardly comes into consideration as affecting this presumption.
	The persons intended in this expression are beyond doubt those to whom our Lord prophesied in like terms, Matthew 26:64 ; viz. those who were His murderers, whether the Jews who delivered Him to be crucified, or the Romans, who actually inflicted His death. That the meaning must not here be generalized to signify all who have by their sins crucified the Son of God afresh, is plain from the consideration that this class, οἵτινες , are taken out from among the πᾶς ὀφθαλμός which precedes, whereas on that supposition they would be identical with it; for we all have pierced Him in this sense),  and all the tribes of the earth shall mourn at Him (i. e. their mourning shall be directed towards Him as its object: in fear for themselves in regard to the consequences of his coming: similarly πρός τι , John 13:28 . The account to be given of the meaning in ref. 2 Kings, ἐκόψατο ἐπὶ τὸν ἄνδρα αὐτῆς , is in fact the same, the circumstances only making the difference. In Zechariah 12:10 , both meanings are united.
	The prophecy is in allusion to Matthew 24:30 ; and its sense, that all, even the holiest of men, shall mourn at the visible approach of that day. But as Bengel well remarks, there will be then two kinds of mourning: “præ terrore hostili,” and “præ terrore pœnitentiali.” The former will prevail in the impenitent and careless world; the latter even in the comforted and rejoicing church. The holiest saint when that Presence is manifested, in the midst of his “Lo, this is our God; we have waited for Him, and He will save us,” will personally feel with St. Peter, “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord.” The whole is an adaptation and amplification of the words of Zechariah, l. c. See Vitringa’s note. But we must not adopt his notion, taken up also by Hengst., “Venire dicitur Christus to nubibus cœli, quoties gloriam majestatemque suam in singularibus gratiæ, severitatis et potentiæ suæ effectis demonstrat, et se ecclesiæ quasi præsentem exhibet:” for thus we confuse and indeed stultify the whole of this solemn announcement. The certainty of Christ’s revealing Himself to his Church in mercies and judgments needed no such asseveration as is here used: but the certainty of His great personal second coming did and still does; being the one fact which the world and the church alike are disposed to lose sight of).  Yea, Amen (both these words are used in ref. 2 Cor. as forms of ratification. The former is Greek, the latter Hebrew: and both together answer to the “Thus saith the Lord” of the prophets: τούτοις δὲ τοῖς εἰρημένοις τὸ βέβαιον ἐπιμαρτυρῶν , ἐπεσφράγισε διὰ τοῦ εἰπεῖν  ναὶ καὶ ἀμήν . τοῦ  ναὶ μὲν ἐξ Ἑλληνικῆς συνηθείας τὸ ἀμετάστατον τῶν εἰρηένων ἐξακριβοῦντος , τοῦ δὲ  ἀμὴν παρ ʼ Ἑβραίοις , εἰς τὸ μηδὲν ἂν γενέσθαι ἐμποδὼν μὴ ἐκβῆναι τὰ ἠπειλημένα ἐπαγομένου . Andr [7] in Catena).  I am the Alpha and the Omega, saith the Lord God, He that is and that was and that is to come, the Almighty (by whom are these words spoken? Certainly as they here stand, with κύριος ὁ θεός , and ὁ παντοκράτωρ , they must be understood as uttered by the Eternal Father. And similarly we find Him that sitteth on the throne speaking in ch. Revelation 21:5 ff. In our Revelation 1:17 , and in ch. Revelation 22:13 , it is our Lord who speaks. Nor need we be surprised, that He who is of one essence with the Father should assert of Himself the same eternal being as the Father. This need not lead us to force the reference of any passage, but each must be ruled by considerations of its own context. Schöttgen gives examples of the Rabbinical usage of “ab Aleph usque ad Tau,” to signify “completely,” “entirely:” and of the word את being a name of the Shechinah, because it comprehends all the letters. The ἀρχὴ κ . τέλος was a correct gloss, from ch. Revelation 21:6 , Rev 22:13 ).
	 [7] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 ὁ παντοκράτωρ answers in the LXX to the Hebr. צְבָאוֹת also to שַׁדַּי . See note on Romans 9:29 .