 16 .]  And having (  ἔχων , not = καὶ εἶχεν , but as in ref. St. John takes up the description from time to time irrespective of the construction, as if (De W.) with separate strokes of the pencil)  in his right hand seven stars (not, as Heinr.,  on his right hand, as a number of jewelled rings, but  in his right hand, as a wreath or garland held in it. De W. well remarks that  this , which is the more natural rendering, is also required by the symbolism. If the seven churches which the seven stars symbolize, were  on the Lord’s hand as rings, they would seem to be serving (adorning?) Him, and not to be the objects of his action: but now that He  holds them in his hand, He appears as their Guardian, their Provider, their Nourisher: and, we may add, their Possessor, who brings them out and puts them forth to be seen when He pleases. His universal Church would hardly be thus represented, but only a portion of it which it pleases Him to take in his hand and hold forth as representing the rest):  and out of his mouth a two-edged sharp sword going forth (cf. Isaiah 11:4 ; Isaiah 49:2 ( ἔθηκε τὸ στόμα μου ὡς μάχαιραν ὀξεῖαν ): also our ch. Revelation 2:16 , and Wis 18:15-16 . The same figure occurs with reference to  men in Psalms 55:21 ; Psalms 57:4 ; Psalms 59:7 ; and Wetst. and Schöttg. give examples of it from the Rabbinical writings. The thing signified may perhaps be as in 2 Thessalonians 2:8 , ὁ ἄνομος ὃν ὁ κύριος Ἰησοῦς ἀνελεῖ τῷ πνεύματι τοῦ στόματος αὐτοῦ …: and in ch. Revelation 19:21 ; but clearly we must not exclude (as Düsterd.) the attributes of the  word of God , Hebrews 4:12 , Ephesians 6:17 . And this all the more, inasmuch as 1) here the Lord is represented not as taking vengeance on his enemies, but as speaking with his own, both in the way of comforting and of threatening: and 2) in ch. Revelation 19:21 , where this very sword is again alluded to as slaying the Lord’s enemies, His title as καθήμενος ἐπὶ τοῦ ἵππου is ὁ λόγος τοῦ θεοῦ ):  and his countenance (not, as Düsterd., who wrongly quotes De W. as supporting him,  general appearance : so also Ewald, al. Had this been so, how should the Apostle have noted the details just mentioned? for the whole figure of our Lord would have been too dazzling for him to contemplate. It is natural that after describing the eyes, and that which proceeded from the mouth, he should give the general effect of the countenance. And as matter of usage, Joh 11:44 is decided, being spoken of a person, which Joh 7:24 is not)  as the sun shineth in his strength (see ref. Judges: that is, when unclouded and in full power: not necessarily at midday, but at any time. The construction is again broken: ὡς ὁ ἥλ . φαίνων would be the regular connexion).