 20 .]  the mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest upon (held in, and so standing over, as a wreath)  my right hand (  τὸ μυστ  . is in apposition with ἃ εἶδες κ . τ . λ ., and governed by γράψον . Lyra interprets the word well, “sacramentum stellarum,” i. e. “sacrum secretum per ipsas significatum:” see reff.),  and the seven candlesticks of gold (elliptic construction for ‘  and the mystery of the seven candlesticks ,’ &c.).  The seven stars are (  the ) (the prefixed predicate ἄγγελοι , though on that account wanting the article, is rendered definite by the definite gen., τῶν ἑπτ . ἐκκ ., which follows)  angels of the seven churches: and the seven candlesticks are seven churches (the import of the ἄγγελοι has been much disputed. Very many Commentators take them for the  presiding presbyters , or  bishops , of the churches. So Primas [12] , Bed [13] , Joach., Lyra, Alcas., Corn.-a-lap., Ribera, Bossuet, Beza, Grot., Calov., al. m. So also Vitr., Whitby, and with some modification, Hengst. This view is variously supported. It derives probability from the analogy of the vision itself, in which, seeing that the candelabra represent the churches themselves, existing vessels containing much light, the stars, concentrated sparks of light, should represent some actually existing persons in or connected with the churches. Again it is supported by our finding that throughout the seven Epistles the angel is treated as representing and responsible for the particular church. But before we pass on to the other great section of interpretation, we may at once dismiss those forms of this one which make ἄγγελος the  ideal representative of the governing body (as Hengst.), or an  ideal messenger from the church (as Ebrard), or a proleptic idea of the office of Bishop, not yet instituted, as Rothe, or, in short, any idealism at all. As the ἐκκλησία is an objective reality, so must the ἄγγελος be, of whatever kind. This consideration will also affect the current of interpretation which takes the angels to be  the churches themselves . So Andreas and Arethas (in Cat., ἄγγελον τῆς Ἐφέσου , τὴν ἐν αὐτῇ ἐκκλησίαν λέγει . οὐ γὰρ ὁ προστατῶν ἄγγελος ἡμαρτήκει , ὥστε δεῖν ἀκοῦσαι μετανόησον , ὁ δι ʼ ἁγιότητα ἐν τῇ δεξιᾷ τοῦ κυρίου ὑπάρχων ἀστὴρ ὢν … τίς δὲ καὶ χρεία γράφειν τῷ ἐν τῇ δεξιᾷ τοῦ διαλεγομένου παρόντι ; κ . τ . λ .). The second line of interpretation is that which regards the ἄγγελοι as  angels , in some way representing the churches. In favour of this Isaiah 1:0 ) the constant usage of this book, in which the word ἄγγελος occurs only in this sense: 2) the further usage of this book, in which we have, ch. Revelation 16:5 , the ἄγγελος τῶν ὑδάτων introduced without any explanation, who can be none other than the angel presiding over the waters: 3) the expression of our Lord Himself Matthew 18:10 , οἱ ἄγγελοι αὐτῶν ἐν τῷ οὐρανῷ διὰ παντὸς βλέπουσιν τὸ πρόσωπον τοῦ πατρός μου τοῦ ἐν οὐρανοῖς , coupled with the saying of the church in the house of Mary the mother of John Mark, Acts 12:15 , with regard to their disbelief of Peter standing at the door, ὁ ἄγγελός ἐστιν αὐτοῦ : both asserting the doctrine that angels are allotted to persons, and are regarded as representing them: a subject full of mystery, and requiring circumspect treatment, but by no means to be put aside, as is commonly done. 4) The extension of this from individuals to nations in the book of Daniel, which is so often the key to apocalyptic interpretation. See Daniel 10:21 ; Daniel 12:1 ; an analogy according to which there might well be angels not only of individuals, but of churches. 5) The fact that throughout these Epistles, nothing is ever addressed individually as to a teacher, but as to some one person reflecting as it were the complexion and fortunes of the church in a way in which no mere human teacher or ruler could. That there is no exception to this in ch. Revelation 2:20 , see maintained in note there.
	 [12] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [13] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	6) To the objection advanced in the comment of Arethas above, οὐ γὰρ ὁ προστατῶν ἄγγελος ἡμαρτήκει κ . τ . λ ., the reply may be made, with advantage to this interpretation, that there evidently is revealed to us a mysterious connexion between ministering angels and those to whom they minister, by which the former in some way are tinged by the fates and fortunes of the latter. E. g., in our Lord’s saying cited above, the place of dignity there asserted of the angels of the little children is unquestionably connected with the character of those whose angels they are: and it cannot be following out such a revelation too far to say that, if some of the holy angels are thus and for this reason advanced to honour, others may be similarly, and for the opposite reason, placed in less honour and relatively disgraced. That this idea is found expressed in the Rabbinical writings (see in Wetst.) is a mark of the further development of the truth which seems to have been first revealed to Daniel 7:0 ) It will be perceived that this interpretation does not lie under any of the objections stated above as idealizing that which ought to be an objective reality. For it contemplates the angels of the churches as really existent, not as ideal beings. It is only when this latter is the case, that those objections can apply. 8) It will also be perceived, that both the circumstances, which were cited as making for the former interpretation, tell equally for this: viz. a) that just noticed, the actual existence of these persons in or belonging to the churches, and b) the fact that in the Epistles the angel is treated as representing and responsible for the particular church.
	So that I cannot but regard this second view as far the more likely one. It has been taken by Origen, Greg.-Naz [14] , Jerome, Andr [15] , Areth [16] (in Catena: holding as above, the churches themselves to be virtually meant, inasmuch as the angel himself could not need repentance, &c.: but never doubting that by ἄγγελοι the angels are meant), Wetst., Züllig, Wahl, Bretschneider, Bleek, De Wette (see above), al.
	 [14] Nazianzenus, Gregory, fl. 370 389
	 [15] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [16] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	The attempt to defend the interpretation of ἄγγελοι as bishops by the analogy of the שליח צבור ,  legatus Ecclesiæ , in the synagogue, appears to be futile, inasmuch as that officer held quite an inferior place, in no way corresponding to a bishop, or any kind of president of the church.
	I may also notice, that the weight laid by Brightmann, al., and recently by Ebrard, on the omission of the art. before ἄγγελοι is worth nothing (see the rendering above). Such a sentence as Ebr. suggests in case ἄγγελοι had been definite, οἱ ἑπτ . ἀστ . οἱ ἄγγελοι τῶν ἐκκ . εἰσιν , could hardly be written in Greek: it would have stood εἰσὶν οἱ ἀγγ . τῶν ἐκκλ . The fact, that each succeeding epistle is addressed  τῷ ἀγγέλῳ τῆς ἐν .… ἐκκλησίας , should have guided Commentators aright in this matter.
	As regards the symbolism,  stars are the symbols of the angels of the churches, inasmuch as angels are beings of light, Hebrews 1:7 (from Psa 104:4 ), where see note; Job 38:7 , where they are called the morning stars. The same symbolism is used in the prophets of Lucifer, the day-star, the son of the morning, Isaiah 14:12 ff., who would exalt his throne above the stars of God, ib. Isaiah 14:13 ; Revelation 12:4 ; Revelation 12:9 . See also Luke 10:18 . That stars are also used to symbolize earthly authorities, is what might be expected from the very nature of the symbol, and should never have been alleged here as a reason against the literal interpretation of ἄγγελοι .
	The churches themselves are represented by candlesticks, agreeably with the universal symbolism both of the prophetic and evangelic Scriptures. Cf. Proverbs 4:18 ; Isaiah 60:1 ; Isaiah 60:3 ; Matthew 5:14 ; Matthew 5:16 ; Luke 12:35 ; Php 2:15 ).