 17, 18 .]  And when I saw Him, I fell at his feet as dead (the effect of the divine appearance: see Exodus 33:20 ; Job 42:6 ; Isaiah 6:5 ; Ezekiel 1:28 ; Daniel 8:17 ff; Daniel 10:7 ff. There is no discrepancy in this bodily action with the spiritual nature of the vision, as De W. thinks, either here or in the places where similar physical effects are described, ch. Revelation 5:4 , Revelation 19:10 , Revelation 22:8 ( Dan 7:15 ). Düsterd. well remarks in reply, that the ἐν πν . of Rev 1:10 does not supersede existence in the body. Just as dreamers express their bodily feelings by physical acts, e. g. by starting or weeping, so might St. John while in this ecstasy: cf. Act 9:3 ).  And he placed his right hand upon me, saying, Fear not (see, besides reff., Luke 2:10 , Matthew 17:7 , Mark 16:6 . These places, and the whole character of our Lord’s words, shew that the Apostle’s falling down as dead was purely from fear, not, as Ebrard imagines, as an expression of ecstatic love);  I am the first and the last (reff.: = α and ω above: not as the semi-Socinian Commentators, Grot., Wetst., “summus dignitate … contemtissimus:” it is the eternity of God which is expressed of Him who is before all and after all, from and to everlasting),  and the living One (not = ὁ ζωοποιῶν , however true the fact may be; nor here signifying  alive from the dead : but is the well-known attribute of God, the Eternal, not in bare duration, but in personal Life, The ζωοποιεῖν is  included , but the word expresses far more. The E. V. is wrong in connecting these words with those that follow);  and I was (not ἦν , but ἐγενόμην , I  became : it was a state which I passed into)  dead, and behold I am alive for evermore (see Romans 6:9 , Acts 13:34 .  ζῶν εἰμί expresses, more emphatically than would the simple verb, the residence and effluence of life. By this mention of His own death and revival, the Lord reassures his Apostle. He is not only the living One in His majesty, but He has passed through death as one of us, and is come to confer life even in and through death),  and I have the keys of death and of Hades (I can bring up from death, yea even from the mysterious place of the spirits of the departed. The figure of the keys is often used in this book; see reff. Wetst. quotes from the Targum of Jonathan on Deuteronomy 28:12 , “Quatuor sunt claves in manu Domini, … clavis vitæ et sepulchrorum et ciborum et pluviæ;” and other testimonies of the same kind. We have the  gates of death as opposed to the gates of the daughter of Zion, Psalms 9:14 ; cf. also Job 38:17 ; and the gates of Hades, Matthew 16:18 . Isa 38:10 ).