 19 .]  Write therefore (‘because I have vouchsafed thee this vision, I whose majesty is such, and whose manifested loving-kindness to thee.’ The connexion is better thus than with Revelation 1:11 , as some: “Now that thy fear is over, write what I bade thee,” Hengst. So Aret., who remarks, “ ἔκστασις memoriam lædit.” But it is very doubtful whether Rev 1:11 is spoken by our Lord at all: see there)  the things which thou sawest (just now: the vision which was but now vouchsafed thee),  and what things they signify (two meanings of  ἃ εἰσίν are possible. 1) ‘  the things which are ,’ viz. which exist at the present time. This has been taken by Arethas, Lyra, Corn.-a-lap., Grot., Calov., Vitr., Beng., Wolf, Züll., Hengst., Ebrard, Lücke, Düsterd., Revelation 2:0 ) as above, ‘  what things they (the ἃ εἶδες )  signify :’ so Alcas., Aretius, Eichhorn, Heinr., Ewald, De W. In deciding between these, we have the following considerations: a) the use of the plural εἰσίν , as marking off this clause in meaning from the next, which has ἃ μέλλει γενέσθαι . If this latter is sing., why not this? Is it not because the μέλλει γενέσθαι merely signifies the future time, in which this latter class,  en masse , were to happen, whereas this ἃ εἰσί imports, what these things, each of them, severally, mean? And b) this seems to be borne out by the double repetition of εἰσιν in the next verse, both times unquestionably in this meaning. So that I have no hesitation in taking the meaning given above),  and the things which are about to happen after these (viz. after ἃ εἶδες : the next vision, beginning with ch. 4., which itself opens with μετὰ ταῦτα εἶδον . I would take γενέσθαι in the sense of happening, not in the wide ages of history, but in  apocalyptic vision : seeing that,  ταῦτα meaning ἃ εἶδες ,  a present vision , ἃ μέλλει γενέσθαι will by analogy mean the things which shall succeed these, i. e. a future vision. Notice, it is not ἃ δεῖγενέσθαι as in Revelation 1:1 ; not the necessity of prophecy, but only the sequence of things seen);