 6 .]  and He made (the breaking up of the participial into the direct construction is Hebraistic: so De W., al. “It belongs to the delicacy of the Hebrew diction, to follow up the participle which gives the tone to the sentence by finite verbs, which, through the influence of the relative notion embodied in the participle, are themselves to be taken as conditioning clauses.” Delitzsch on Habak. (  in Hengst .))  as a kingdom (viz. the kingdom of God or of heaven, so much spoken of by our Lord Himself and his Apostles: consisting of those who are His, and consummated at His glorious coming. This kingdom is one in which his saints will themselves reign, see the parallel place ch. Revelation 5:10 , where καὶ βασιλεύσουσιν ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς is added: and Daniel 7:27 ; but above all the place which is here referred to, Exodus 19:6 , ὑμεῖς δὲ ἔσεσθέ μοι βασίλειον ἱεράτευμα καὶ ἔθνος ἅγιον ( 1Pe 2:9 )),  priests (the βασιλείαν was the collective description:  ἱερεῖς is the individual designation. See on the union of the two characters in the individual Christian, the note on 1Pe 2:9 )  to (as  belonging to; the Father being the ultimate object of reference, as His will is the origin, and His glory the result, of all that is brought about by the mediatorial work of Christ)  God and His Father (to Him who is God and His Father: or, to His God and Father. The former is the more probable here, Ebr. remarks, on account of St. John’s habit of repeating the possessive genitive after words of possession: e. g. ch. Revelation 6:11 , οἱ σύνδουλοι αὐτῶν κ . οἱ ἀδελφοὶ αὐτῶν : Revelation 9:21 , ἐκ τῶν φόνων αὐτῶν οὔτε ἐκ τ . φαρμάκων αὐτῶν οὔτε ἐκ , &c.: John 2:12 , which is more to the point here, ἡ μήτηρ αὐτοῦ κ . οἱ ἀδελφοὶ [ αὐτοῦ ] κ . οἱ μαθηταὶ αὐτοῦ . See notes on the places where the expression occurs in St. Paul (reff. Rom. Eph.), where I have taken the other rendering),  to Him be (or,  is, belongs : the like ambiguity is found in all doxological sentences)  the glory and the might unto the ages (i. e. for ever. See note on Gal 1:5 ):  Amen .