 1. ]  ταῦτα  , the foregoing discourse. St. John very seldom depicts the gestures or looks of our Lord, as here. But this was an occasion of which the impression was indelible, and the upward look could not be passed over.
	 εἰς τὸν οὐρ  . ] Nothing hereby is determined as to the locality. The guest-chamber no doubt was the place of this prayer. The eyes may be lifted to heaven in as well as out of doors;  heaven is not the sky, but that upper region, above our own being and thoughts, where we all agree in believing God to be especially present; and which we indicate when we direct our eyes or our hands upward. The Lord, being in all such things like as we are, lifted up His eyes to heaven when addressing the Father (not His  hands , for He prays not here as a suppliant but as an intercessor and a High Priest, standing between earth and heaven, see John 17:24 ,  θέλω ἵνα  .… ).
	 καὶ εἶπεν ] It is impossible to regard the following prayer otherwise than as the  very words of our Lord Himself, faithfully rendered by the beloved Apostle in the power of the Holy Spirit . The view which has led so many of the best German Commentators (even Olshausen) to see in parts of it the words of the Evangelist, and not of our Lord, is, it seems to me, inconsistent with any earnest reception of the Gospels as truthful. If such a promise as ch. Joh 14:26 was made,  and fulfilled , then these must be the words of the Lord Himself; and the  Greek form of them only (and query whether even that? see Prolegg. ch. ii. § ii. (  π )) can be regarded as bearing evidence of the style and manner of John.
	 πάτερ  , not,  Our Father, which He never could say, nor,  My Father, which would be too great a separation between Himself and His for such a prayer (see Matthew 26:0 :(39), 42, where He prays for Himself only) but simply FATHER; that Great Name in which all the mystery of Redemption is summed up. “Sic patrem absolute appellat in hac oratione dulci et prolixa quater, et cum epitheto bis, in universum nonnisi sexies, idque fere ineunte nova sermonis parte, John 17:1 ; John 17:5 ; John 17:11 ; John 17:21 ; John 17:24-25 . Talis simplicitas appellationis ante omnes decuit filium Dei.” Bengel.
	 ἐλήλ  .   ἡ ὥρα ] See ch. John 12:23 ; John 12:28 ; John 13:31-32 . The Glorification is the exaltation by Death and Resurrection: He prays in the Manhood and for the exaltation of the Manhood, but in virtue of His Godhead, John 17:5 .
	 τὸν υἱόν ] He prays first objectively, to set the great matter forth in all its majesty; then subjectively, δόξασόν με σύ , John 17:5 , putting  Himself into the place of τὸν υἱόν here.
	 ἵνα  … ] “These words are a proof that the Son is equal to the Father as touching His Godhead. What creature could stand before his Creator and say, ‘Glorify Thou me, that I may glorify Thee?’ ” (Stier.)
	This glorifying of the Father by the Son is, the whole great result of the glorification of the Son by the Father, the manifestation of God to and in men by the Son through the Spirit.