 11. ] The  occasion , and  substance of His prayer for them.
	 οὐκ ἔτι εἰμὶ ἐν τῷ κ  . ] This shews us that ὁ κόσμ . is not said of  place alone, for the Lord Jesus is still  here; but of  state , the  state of men in the flesh; sometimes viewed on its darker side, as overcoming men and bringing in spiritual death, sometimes, as here, used in the most general sense.
	 καί  , not  but; it expresses the simultaneous state of the Lord and His, see ch. John 16:32 , and note.
	 ἅγιε ]  Holy , as applied to God, peculiarly expresses that  penetration of all His attributes by LOVE, which He only who here uttered it sees through in its length, breadth, and height: which angels (Isaiah 6:3 ; Rev 4:8 ) feel and express: which men are privileged to utter, but can never worthily feel: but which devils can neither feel nor worthily utter (see Mar 1:24 ). They know His Power and His Justice only. But His Holiness is especially employed in this work of  τηρεῖν now spoken of.
	 ἐν τῷ ὀν  .   σου  , not ‘  through Thine own Name,’ as E. V. which yet renders ‘  in Thy Name’ John 17:12 (so Chrys., Theophyl., Euthym [234] ), but in the ὄνομα of John 17:6 ; John 17:12 : see below.
	 [234] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ᾧ ] Not only the best supported, but the  best reading, though Stier maintains that it can bear no meaning χριστοπρεπῶς .
	The  Name of God is that which was to be  in the Angel of the Covenant , Exodus 23:21 , see also Isaiah 9:6 ; Jeremiah 23:6 .
	This Name, not the essential God-head, but the covenant name, JEHOVAH OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS, the Father hath  given to Christ , see Philippians 2:9 ; and it is the being kept in this, the truth and confession of this, for which He here prays. “That which the Son has given to His disciples is no other than that which He himself has received from the Father, viz. the essential revelation of the Father.” Luthardt. Cf. Matthew 10:27 .
	 ἵνα ὦσιν ἓν καθ  .   ἡμεῖς ] The oneness here is not merely harmony of will or of love, as some have interpreted it, and then tried to weaken the Oneness of the Godhead by the καθώς , but oneness by the indwelling of the Spirit of Christ, the gift of the covenant ( 1Co 6:17 ), and ultimately [as the close union implied by καθώς requires] oneness of nature, 2 Peter 1:4 , where the ἐπαγγέλματα δεδώρηται answers to the ὄνομα ὃ δέδωκάς μοι here. “Non ait, ut  nobiscum sint  unum , aut  simus unum ipsi et nos, sicut unum sumus nos, sed ait, ut sint unum sicut et nos.” Aug [235] Tract, cvii. 5.
	 [235]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430