 3. ] See a similar definition of a term just used, in ch. John 3:19 .  δέ  , as there, is transitional; bringing out, in fact, the contrast between the incidental mention of the word, and its more solemn definition.
	 ἐστιν  is; not  is the way to . The knowledge spoken of is no mere head or heart knowledge, the mere information of the mind, or excitation of the feelings, but that living reality of knowledge and personal realization, that oneness in will with God, and partaking of His nature, which IS itself life eternal: the knowledge, love, enjoyment, of Him who is infinite, being themselves infinite. ἡ ὕπαρξις τῆς ζωῆς ἐκ τῆς τοῦ θεοῦ περιγίνεται μετοχῆς · μετοχὴ δὲ θεοῦ ἐστι τὸ γινώσκειν θεὸν καὶ ἀπολαύειν τῆς χρηστότητος αὐτοῦ . Iren [229] adv. Hær. iv. 20. 5, p. 254.
	 [229] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	The accusatives after γινώσκ . are purely accusatives of the person, and the emphasis is on γινώσκ . From not seeing this, various mistakes have arisen e.g. the making τὸν μόν . ἀλ . θεόν the predicate, ‘  Thee to be the only true God ,’ and similarly with χριστόν (which would require  τὸν χρ .) or with ὃν ἀπέστειλας , ‘  Jesus, whom Thou hast sent, to be (  the )  Christ ,’ or ‘  Jesus Christ to be Him whom Thou hast sent .’ It is rightly rendered in E. V.
	The Latin Fathers (Aug [230] , Amb., Hil [231] ), anxious to avoid the inference unwarrantably drawn by some from this verse against the Godhead of Christ, construed: ἵνα γιν . σε κ . Ἰ . χ . ὃν ἀπ ., τὸν μόνον ἀλ . θεόν , which is of course inadmissible. Others (Chrys., Euth.), construing rightly, yet regarded Jesus Christ as included in the words μόν . ἀληθ . θεόν . But all such violences to the text are unnecessary. For, first, the very juxtaposition of Jesus Christ here with the Father, and the knowledge of  both being defined to be eternal life, is a proof by implication of the Godhead of the former. The knowledge of  God and a creature could not be eternal life, and the juxtaposition of the two would be inconceivable. Secondly, the  ὃν ἀπέστειλας most distinctly expresses the ἐξελθεῖν from God, Joh 17:8 implies the ἡμεῖς ἕν of John 17:22 , and cannot, in connexion with what follows, possibly be understood in a Socinian, or an Arian sense. I do not scruple to use and preach on the verse as a plain proof of the co-equality of the Lord Jesus in the Godhead.
	 [230]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [231]  Hilary, Bp. of Poictiers , 354
	A difficulty has been found in the use of the name JESUS CHRIST  by the Lord Himself: and inferences have been hence made that we have  John’s own language here: but surely without any ground. He who said σου τὸν υἱόν , John 17:1 , might well here, before the ἐγώ of John 17:4 , use that prophetic Name [  Ἰησοῦς ] which had been divinely given Him as the Saviour of men, and its weighty adjunct  χριστός (= υἱὸς τοῦ θεοῦ , 1 John 5:1 ; 1Jn 5:5 ), in which Names are all the hidden treasures of that knowledge of which He here speaks.
	And as to the later use of the two names together having led to their insertion here by the Apostle (  gegen das geschichtliche Decorum , De Wette; similarly Lücke, and even Olshausen), what if  the converse were the case , and this solemn use of them by our Lord had given occasion to their subsequent use by the Church? This is to me much more probable than the other.