But if our unrighteousness - If our sin. The particular sin which had been specified Romans 3:3 was “unbelief.” But the apostle here gives the objection a general form. This is to be regarded as an objection which a Jew might make. The force of it is this: (2)But God was true to his promises. Notwithstanding their sin, God’s character was the same. Nay,Commend - Recommend; show forth; render illustrious.The righteousness of God - His just and holy character. This was the effect on David’s mind, that he saw more clearly the justice of God in his threatenings against sin, in consequence of his own transgression. And if this effect followed, if honor was thus done to God, the question was, how he could consistently punish what tended to promote his own glory?What shall we say? - What follows? or, what is the inference? This is a mode of speech as if the objector hesitated about expressing an inference which would seem to follow, but which was horrible in its character.Is God unrighteous? - The meaning of this would be better expressed thus: “Is “not” God unrighteous in punishing? Does it not follow that if God is honored by sin, that it would be wrong for him to inflict punishment?”Who taketh vengeance - The meaning of this is simply, “who inflicts punishment.” The idea of vengeance is not necessarily in the original ὀργήν orgēn. It is commonly rendered “wrath,” but it often means simply “punishment,” without any reference to the state of the mind of him who inflicts it, Matthew 3:7; Luke 3:7; Luke 21:23; John 3:36. Notes, Romans 1:18; Romans 4:15.I speak as a man - I speak after the manner of human beings. I speak as appears to be the case to human view; or as would strike the human mind. It does not mean that the language was such as wicked people were accustomed to use; but that the objector expressed a sentiment which to human view would seem to follow from what had been said. This I regard as the language of an objector. It implies a degree of reverence for the character of God, and a seeming unwillingness to state an objection which seemed to be dishonorable to God, but which nevertheless pressed itself so strong on the mind as to appear irresistible. No way of stating the objection could have been more artful or impressive.