 The Revelation  (αποκαλυψις). Late and rare word outside of N.T. (once in Plutarch and so in the vernacular Koine), only once in the Gospels (Luke 2:32), but in LXX and common in the Epistles (2 Thessalonians 1:7), though only here in this book besides the title, from αποκαλυπτω, old verb, to uncover, to unveil. In the Epistles αποκαλυψις is used for insight into truth (Ephesians 1:17) or for the revelation of God or Christ at the second coming of Christ (2 Thessalonians 1:7; 1 Peter 1:7). It is interesting to compare αποκαλυψις with επιφανεια (2 Thessalonians 2:8) and φανερωσις (1 Corinthians 12:7). The precise meaning here turns on the genitive following.Of Jesus Christ  (Ιησου Χριστου). Hort takes it as objective genitive (revelation about Jesus Christ), but Swete rightly argues for the subjective genitive because of the next clause.Gave him  (εδωκεν αυτο). It is the Son who received the revelation from the Father, as is usual (John 5:20; John 5:26, etc.).To shew  (δειξα). First aorist active infinitive of δεικνυμ, purpose of God in giving the revelation to Christ.Unto his servants  (τοις δουλοις αυτου). Believers in general and not just to officials. Dative case. God's servants (or Christ's).Must shortly come to pass  (δε γενεσθα εν ταχε). Second aorist middle infinitive of γινομα with δε. See this same adjunct (εν ταχε) in Luke 18:8; Romans 16:20; Revelation 22:6. It is a relative term to be judged in the light of 2 Peter 3:8 according to God's clock, not ours. And yet undoubtedly the hopes of the early Christians looked for a speedy return of the Lord Jesus. This vivid panorama must be read in the light of that glorious hope and of the blazing fires of persecution from Rome.Sent and signified  (εσημανεν αποστειλας). "Having sent (first aorist active participle of αποστελλω, Matthew 10:16 and again in Revelation 22:6 of God sending his angel) signified" (first aorist active indicative of σημαινω, from σημα, sign or token, for which see John 12:33; Acts 11:28). See Revelation 12:1 for σημειον, though σημαινω (only here in the Apocalypse) suits admirably the symbolic character of the book.By his angel  (δια του αγγελου αυτου). Christ's angel as Christ is the subject of the verb εσημανεν, as in 22:16 Christ sends his angel, though in Revelation 22:6 God sends.Unto his servant John  (τω δουλω αυτου Ιωανε). Dative case. John gives his name here, though not in Gospel or Epistles, because "prophecy requires the guarantee of the individual who is inspired to utter it" (Milligan). "The genesis of the Apocalypse has now been traced from its origin in the Mind of God to the moment when it reached its human interpreter" (Swete). "Jesus is the medium of all revelation" (Moffatt). 