1.There appeareth as yet some color of equity in the high priest and in the council; and yet, notwithstanding, there is a most unjust prejudice in his words; for he asketh him not what cause he had to teach thus, neither doth he admit him unto the defense of right, (which was, notwithstanding, the chief;) but he demanded precisely whether Stephen uttered these words, whatsoever they were; as the Papists at this day will not demand what doctrine it is, and whether it can be proved out of the Scriptures; but they inquire (364) whether any man durst mutter against their superstitions, that so soon as he is convict, they may forthwith burn (365) him. Furthermore, Stephen’s answer may seem at the first blush absurd and foolish. He beginneth first at the very first beginning; afterwards he maketh a long narration, wherein there is no mention made, in a manner, of the matter in hand; and there can be no greater fault than to utter many words which are nothing appertinent unto the matter; (366) but whosoever shall thoroughly consider this long speech, he shall find nothing therein which is superfluous; and shall full well perceive that Stephen speaketh very ap-pertinently, (367) as the matter requireth. He was accused as an apostate (or revolt,) which did attempt the overthrow of religion and the worship of God; therefore, he beateth in (368) this diligently, that he retaineth that God which the fathers have always worshipped, so that he turneth away the crime of wicked backsliding; (369) and declareth that his enemies were pricked forward with nothing less than with the zeal of the law, for they bear a show that they were wholly determined (370) to increase the glory of God; therefore, he wringeth from them this false boasting, and because they had the fathers always in their mouths, because they were puffed up with the glory of their nation, Stephen declareth also that they have no cause to be proud of this, but rather that the corruptions of the fathers were so great and so many, that they ought to be ashamed and humbled. As concerning the principal state of the cause, because the question was concerning the temple and the ceremonies, he affirmeth plainly that their fathers were elected of God to be a peculiar people before there was any temple, and before Moses was born; and to this end tendeth that exordium or beginning which is so far fet, (fetched.) Secondly, he telleth them that all external rites which God gave by the hand of Moses were fashioned according to the heavenly pattern. Whereupon it followeth, that the ceremonial law is referred unto another end, and that those deal foolishly and disorderly who omit the truth, and stay only in the signs. If the readers shall refer the whole oration of Stephen unto these points, they shall find nothing therein which agreeth not very well with the cause, as I shall declare again briefly in the end; nevertheless, that scope of the whole oration shall not hinder but that we may discuss all things briefly which are worth the noting. (364) “Sed tanum hoc quaerint,” but the only thing they ask is. (365) “Vulcano devoveant,” devote him to Vulcan, (to the flames.) (366) “Et extra rem vagari,” and wander from the subject. (367) “Apposito,” appositely. (368) “Sedulo igitur inculcat,” he therefore strenuously maintains. (369) “Ita impiae defectiones cremen avertit,” he thus repels the charge of impious defection or revolt. (370) “Simulabant enim nihil sibi esse propositum quam,” for they pretended that their only object was. 