 1. ]  μεθ  ʼ   ἡμέρας ἕξ = μετὰ τοὺς λόγους τούτους ὡσεὶ ἡμ . ὀκτώ Luke 9:28 . The one computation is inclusive, the other not; or perhaps, from the ὡσεί being inserted, the one is accurate, the other roughly stated. The time of the transfiguration was probably  night , for the following reasons. (1) Luke informs us that the Lord had gone up to the mount  to pray; which He usually did at night (Luke 6:12 ; Luke 21:37 ; Luke 22:39 ; Matthew 14:23-24 a [144] .). (2) All the circumstances connected with the glorification and accompanying appearances would thus be more prominently seen. (3) The Apostles were  asleep , and are described, Luke 9:32 , as ‘  having kept awake through it ’ ( διαγρηγορήσαντες ). (4) They  did not descend till the next day ( Luk 9:37 ), which would be almost inexplicable had the event happened by day, but a matter of course if by night.
	 [144] alii = some cursive mss.
	 ὄρος ὑψ  . ] The situation of this mountain is uncertain. It was not, probably, Tabor, according to the legend; for on the top of Tabor then most likely stood a fortified town (De Wette, from Robinson). Nor is there any likelihood that it was Panium, near Cæsarea Philippi, for the six days would probably be spent in journeying; and they appear immediately after to have come to Capernaum. It was most likely one of the mountains bordering the lake. Luke speaks of it merely as τὸ ὄρος . Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, p. 399, contends for Hermon: as does, though doubtingly, Dr. Thomson, The Land and the Book, p. 231. Stanley thinks that our Lord would still be in the neighbourhood of Cæsarea Philippi: and that “it is impossible to look up from the plain to the towering peaks of Hermon, almost the only mountain which deserves the name in Palestine, and one of whose ancient titles (‘the lofty peak’) was derived from this very circumstance, and not be struck with its appropriateness to the scene.… High up on its southern slopes there must be many a point where the disciples could be taken ‘apart by themselves.’ Even the transient comparison of the celestial splendour with the snow, where alone it could be seen in Palestine, should not perhaps be wholly overlooked.”