 1 13. ] THE TRANSFIGURATION. Mark 9:2-13 .Luke 9:28-36; Luke 9:28-36 . This weighty event forms the solemn installation of our Lord to His sufferings and their result. Those three Apostles were chosen to witness it, who had before witnessed His power over death ( Mar 5:37 ), and who afterwards were chosen to accompany Him in His agony (ch. Mat 26:37 ), and were (John 20:2 ; Mar 16:7 ) in an especial sense witnesses of His resurrection. The Two who appeared to them were the representatives of the  law and the  prophets: both had been removed from this world in a mysterious manner: the one without death, the other by death indeed, but so that his body followed not the lot of the bodies of all; both, like the Greater One with whom they spoke, had endured that supernatural fast of forty days and nights: both had been on the holy mount in the visions of God. And now they came, endowed with glorified bodies before the rest of the dead, to hold converse with the Lord on that sublime event, which had been the great central subject of all their teaching, and solemnly to consign into His hands, once and for all, in a symbolical and glorious representation, their delegated and expiring power. And then follows the Divine Voice, as at the Baptism, commanding however here in addition the  sole hearing and obedience of Him whose power and glory were thus testified.
	There can be no doubt of the  absolute historical reality of this narration. It is united by definite marks of date with what goes before; and by intimate connexion with what follows. It cannot by any unfairness be severed from its context. Nor again is there any thing mentioned which casts a doubt on the  reality of the appearances (see below, on ὅραμα , Mat 17:9 ). The persons mentioned  were seen by all spoke and  were recognized . The concurrence between the three Evangelists is exact in all the circumstances, and the fourth alludes, not obscurely, to the event, which it was not part of his purpose to relate; John 1:14 . Another of the three spectators distinctly makes mention of the facts here related, 2 Peter 1:16-18 . (I cannot but add, having recently returned from the sight of the wonderful original at Rome, that the great last picture of Raffaelle is one of the best and noblest comments on this portion of the Gospel history. The events passing, at the same time, on, and under, the Mount of Transfiguration, are by the painter combined, to carry to the mind of the spectator the great central truth, There is none but Christ to console and to glorify our nature. It is a touching reflection, that this picture was left unfinished by the painter, and carried in his funeral procession. July, 1861.)