 2. ]  Reason why they wanted instruction concerning spiritual gifts because  they once were heathen , and could not therefore have any experience in spiritual things. Thus Meyer, and so far rightly: but the stress of this reason lies in the words ἄφωνα and ὡς ἂν ἤγεσθε , which he has not sufficiently noticed:  Ye know (that)  when ye were Gentiles (the construction is an anacoluthon, beginning with οἴδατε ὅτι , and then as if οἴδατε ὅτι had been merely a formula for ‘ye know,’ passing into the construction so common, that of placing ὅτε after such verbs as μέμνημαι , οἶδα , ἀκούω , and the like, an ellipsis taking place of τοῦ χρόνου , as Lysias actually fills it up in one place, ἐκείνου τοῦ χρόνου μνησθέντας , ὅτε … in Poliuch. ( περὶ δημεύσεως κ . τ . λ .), p. 151, 34. Thus Il. ξ . 71, ᾔδεα μὲν γὰρ ὅτε πρόφρων Δαναοῖσιν ἄμυνεν : Plato, Menon, p. 79, μέμνησαι ὅτ ʼ ἐγώ σοι ἄρτι ἀπεκρινάμην . See more examples in Kühner’s Gr. Gramm. ii. 480)  led about ([or,  carried away ]  ἀπαγ . not necessarily, ‘  led wrong ;’ and the context seems rather to favour the idea of being ‘  led at will ,’ blindly transported hither and thither, and so De W., and Estius, “qualitercunque, temere, pro nutu ducentium, et huc illuc illos circumagentium, abductos fuisse”)  to idols which were without utterance (‘the God in whom you now believe is a living and speaking God speaking by his Spirit in every believer: how should you know any thing of such spiritual speech or gifts at all, who have been accustomed to  dumb idols ?’),  just as ye happened to be led (scil.,  on each occasion : the force of ἄν being to indicate the indefiniteness, i.e. in this case, the  repetition of the act: so Xen. Anab. i. 5. 2: οἱ μὲν ὄνοι , ἐπεί τις διώκοι (whenever any followed them) προδραμόντες ἂν εἱστήκεισαν , and Eurip. Phœn. 401: ποτὲ μὲν ἐς ἦμαρ εἶχον , εἶτ ʼ οὐκ εἶχον ἄν . See other examples in Kühner, ii. 93, 94). These last words seem to me to imply the absence of all  fixed principle in the oracles of Heathendom, such as he is about to announce as regulating and furnishing the criterion of the spiritual gifts of Christendom. This ὡς ἂν ἤγεσθε might take a man to  contradictory oracles, the whole system being an imposture their idols being void of all power of utterance, and they being therefore imposed on by the fictions of men, or  evil spirits , who led them. Chrys., Œc [55] , Theophyl., make this refer to the difference between the heathen μάντις , who was possessed by an evil spirit, and therefore εἵλκετο ὑπὸ τοῦ πνεύματος δεδεμένος , οὐδὲν εἰδὼς ὧν λέγει , and the Christian προφήτης , which however is entirely unwarranted by the context.
	 [55] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?