 8 10. ] It has been disputed, whether or not any studied arrangement of the gifts of the Spirit is here found. The most recent and best advocates of the two views are Meyer and De Wette. Meyer gives the following arrangement: grounding it mainly on what he believes to be the intentional use of  ἑτέρῳ δέ as distinguished from  ἄλλῳ δέ , and pointing out a new category: I. gifts having reference to  intellectual power: (1) λόγος σοφίας . (2) λόγος γνώσεως . II. ( ἑτέρῳ δέ ) gifts, whose condition is  an exalted faith (  glaubens-heroismus ): (1)  faith itself. (2)  practical workings of the same, viz. (a) ἰάματα . (b) δυνάμεις . (3)  oral working of the same, viz. προφητεία . (4)  critical working of the same, the διάκρισις πνευμάτων . III. gifts having reference to the γλῶσσαι : (1) speaking with tongues: (2) interpretation of tongues.
	To this De Wette objects, (1) that ᾧ μέν , ἑτέρῳ δέ , ἑτέρῳ δέ , do not stand with any reference to one another, but ἑτέρῳ δέ is in each case opposed to the ἄλλῳ δέ which immediately precedes it, and followed by an ἄλλῳ δέ similarly opposed to it: therefore neither can the one betoken the genus, nor the other the species. (2) If any thing could be relied on as marking a division, it would be the repeated κατὰ τὸ αὐτὸ πν ., ἐν τῷ αὐτ . πν ., and the concluding πάντα δὲ ταῦτα 1 Corinthians 12:11 ; but even thus we get no satisfactory partition, for in 1Co 12:10 dissimilar gifts are classed together. (3) We must not look for a classification, for the catalogue is incomplete, see 1 Corinthians 12:28 . (4) The classification given is objectionable. Speaking with tongues is plainly more nearly allied to προφητεία than προφ . to gifts of healing: and the two, tongues and prophesying, are subsequently treated of  together . Besides which, Kling (Stud. u. Krit. 1839, p. 482) rightly remarks, that both διάκρισις πν . and ἑρμηνεία γλ . have reference to the  understanding .
	I am inclined to think that De W.’s objections are valid, as applied to a rigorous arrangement like Meyer’s; but that at the same time there is a  sort of arrangement , brought about not so much designedly, as by the falling together of similar terms, λόγος σοφ ., λόγος γν ., γένη γλωσσῶν , ἑρμ . γλωσσῶν . Unquestionably, any arrangement must be at fault, which proceeding on  psychological grounds, classes together the  speaking with tongues and the  interpretation of tongues: the  working of miracles , and the  discernment of spirits . I believe too that Meyer’s distinction between ἑτέρῳ δέ and ἄλλῳ δέ is imaginary: see Matthew 16:14 ; Hebrews 11:35-36 .