 28. ]  The divine disposition of the members in the spiritual body .
	 οὓς μέν was apparently intended to be followed by οὓς (or ἄλλους ) δέ , but meanwhile another arrangement, πρῶτον , δεύτ ., τρίτ ., occurs to the Apostle, and οὓς μέν is left uncorrected, standing alone. See Ephesians 4:11 , where τοὺς μέν is followed by τοὺς δέ , regularly.
	 ἐν τῇ ἐκκλ .]  in the (universal) church , a sense more frequently found in the Epistle to the Ephesians, than in any other part of St. Paul’s writings.
	 πρ  .   ἀποστόλους ] Not merely  the Twelve are thus designated, but they and others who bore the same name and had equal power, e.g. Paul himself, and Barnabas, and James the Lord’s brother: see also note on Romans 16:7 .
	 προφ .] See above, on 1 Corinthians 12:10 .
	 διδασκάλους ] See reff.: those who had the gift of expounding and unfolding doctrine and applying it to practice, the λόγος σοφίας and the λόγος γνώσεως .
	 δυνάμεις ] He here passes to the  abstract nouns from the  concrete , perhaps because no definite class of persons was endowed with each of the following, but they were promiscuously granted to all orders in the church: more probably, however,  without any assignable reason; as in Romans 12:6-8 , he passes from the abstract to the concrete.
	 ἀντιλήμψεις ] i.e. ἀντέχεσθαι τῶν ἀσθενῶν and the like, as Chrys. forming one department of the διακονίαι of 1 Corinthians 12:5 ; as do also  κυβερνήσεις , a higher department, that of the presbyters or bishops the  direction of the various churches.
	 γένη γλωσσῶν ] εἶδες ποῦ τέθεικε τουτὶ τὸ χάρισμα , καὶ πῶς πανταχοῦ τὴν ἐσχάτην αὐτῷ νέμει τάξιν ; Chrys. p. 287. There certainly seems to be intention in placing this  last in rank: but I am persuaded that we must not, with Meyer, seek for a  classified arrangement: here, as above, 1 Corinthians 12:7-11 , it seems rather  suggestive than logical: the χαρ . ἰαμ . naturally suggesting the ἀντιλήμψεις , and those again, the assistances to carry out the work of the church, as naturally bringing in the κυβερνήσεις , the government and guidance of it.