 31. ]  But (he has been shewing that  all gifts  have their value: and that all are  set in the church by God: some however are  more valuable than  others )  do ye aim at the greater gifts ( μείζ . is explained ch. 1Co 14:5 ). This exhortation is not inconsistent with 1 Corinthians 12:11 ; but, as we look for the divine blessing on tillage and careful culture, so we may look for the aid of the Spirit on carefully cultivated powers of the understanding and speech; and we may notice that the greater gifts, those of προφητεία and διδασκαλία , consisted in  the inspired exercise of the conscious faculties , in which culture and diligence would be useful accessories. “Spiritus dat, ut vult ( 1Co 12:11 ): sed fideles tamen libere aliud præ alio possunt sequi et exercere, c. xiv. 26.” Bengel. Compare also xiv. 39. There is thus no need to explain away ζηλοῦτε , as Grot. (“  agite cum Deo precibus ut accipiatis ”) and others: or to depart from the known usage of χαρίσματα , and explain it to mean  faith, hope, and love , as Morus, or the  fruits of love , as Billroth.
	 καὶ ἔτι ]  And moreover: besides exhorting you to emulate the greatest gifts.
	 καθ  ʼ   ὑπ  .   ὁδ .]  An eminently excellent way , viz.  of emulating the greatest gifts: so Theophyl.: καὶ μετὰ τούτων ( τοῦτο γὰρ δηλοῖ τὸ καὶ ἔτι ), ἐὰν ὅλως ζηλωταὶ ὑπάρχητε χαρισμάτων , δείξω ὑμῖν μίαν ὁδὸν καθ ʼ ὑπερβολήν , τουτέστιν , ὑπερέχουσαν ,  ἥτις φέρει ἐπὶ πάντα τὰ χαρίσματα  · τὴν ἀγάπην δὲ λέγει .
	 καθ  ʼ   ὑπερβ .] must not be joined with the verb, ‘est adhuc via quam vobis diligentissime demonstro’ (Pagnini’s version, and some mentioned by Estius): see reff. and cf. ἡ μάλιστα ἀναγνώρισις , Arist. Poet. ii. 6, μάλα στρατηγόν , Xen. Hell. vi. 2. 39, εὖ πρᾶξις , Æsch. Agam. 262, σφόδρα γυναικῶν , Plato, Legg. i. p. 639 c, and other examples in Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 338.
	The explanation of Estius and Billroth, that the way which he is about to shew them is ‘multo excellentiorem iis donis de quibus hactenus egit’ (Est.), is clearly wrong: the opening verses of ch. 13 shewing, that he does not draw a  comparison between love and gifts , but only shews that it is  the only WAY, in which  gifts can be made effectual in the highest sense. See also on ch. 1 Corinthians 14:1 .