Romans 16:19.  For your obedience, etc. ‘Obedience’ to the gospel, obedience of faith, is meant, as throughout the Epistle. Because of their well-known obedience, he does not class them among the ‘guileless.’ This view of ‘for,’ as implying an antithesis, is further favored by the next clause. Other views: I warn you thus, because your obedient disposition is well known; and you are therefore likely to be led astray; or, I am confident you will heed my warning, because your obedience is well known. The former gives an unusual sense to ‘obedience;’ the latter does not accord well with the force of ‘for’ and ‘therefore.’
	 Over you (the better supported order places the emphasis on this phrase) therefore I rejoice: but I would have you, etc. A delicate combination of warning with the expression of firm confidence. Here is the added reason for the exhortation of Romans 16:17.
	 Wise unto  that which is good,  and simple unto  that which is evil. ‘Simple’ is not the same word as in Romans 16:18; it might be rendered ‘harmless,’ as the margin of the E. V., since it denotes ‘unmixed,’ ‘pure’ ‘free from.’ ‘Unto’ in both cases points to the result. Wisdom is needed that we may rightly do what we know to be right; but in regard to what is evil, the one way is the simple, unmixed way of avoiding it altogether. Romans 16:20.  And the God of peace  (so designated in contrast with those who cause divisions, Romans 16:17)  shall bruise Satan  (who moves all these disturbing teachers)  under your feet shortly. The figure is based upon Genesis 3:15. God will give them the victory; both agencies will be employed. ‘Shortly’ is usually taken in the sense of ‘soon.’ The preservation of primitive Christianity from the fatal errors that very soon assailed it is one of the most striking of the gracious providences of God toward His church (Shedd). But Godet gives it the sense of ‘rapidly,’ as better supported by usage. A reference to the return of Christ is by no means necessarily implied
	 The grace of  our Lord, etc. This benediction, except the word ‘Amen’ is supported by the oldest authorities (two of them omitting ‘Christ’), most of them, however, omitting Romans 16:24 (see below). The salutations which follow seem to have been added after the Epistle was virtually ended.
	