3. Him would Paul have to go forth
	with him—This is in harmony with all we read in the Acts and
	Epistles of Paul's affectionate and confiding disposition. He had no
	relative ties which were of service to him in his work; his
	companions were few and changing; and though Silas would supply the
	place of Barnabas, it was no weakness to yearn for the society of one
	who might become, what Mark once appeared to be, a son in the
	Gospel [HOWSON]. And such
	he indeed proved to be, the most attached and serviceable of his
	associates (Philippians 2:19-23;
	1 Corinthians 4:17; 1 Corinthians 16:10;
	1 Corinthians 16:11; 1 Thessalonians 3:1-6).
	His double connection, with the Jews by the mother's side and the
	Gentiles by the father's, would strike the apostle as a peculiar
	qualification for his own sphere of labor. "So far as appears,
	Timothy is the first Gentile who after his conversion comes before us
	as a regular missionary; for what is said of Titus (1 Thessalonians 3:1-52.3.6- :) refers to a later period" [WIES].
	But before his departure, Paul 
	took and circumcised him—a
	rite which every Israelite might perform. 
	because of the Jews . . . for
	they knew all that his father was a Greek—This seems to imply
	that the father was no proselyte. Against the wishes of a Gentile
	father no Jewish mother was, as the Jews themselves say, permitted to
	circumcise her son. We thus see why all the religion of Timothy is
	traced to the female side of the family (1 Thessalonians 3:1-52.3.6- :). "Had Timothy not been circumcised, a storm would have
	gathered round the apostle in his farther progress. His fixed line of
	procedure was to act on the cities through the synagogues; and to
	preach the Gospel to the Jew first and then to the Gentile. But such
	a course would have been impossible had not Timothy been circumcised.
	He must necessarily have been repelled by that people who endeavored
	once to murder Paul because they imagined he had taken a Greek into
	the temple (Acts 21:29). The
	very intercourse of social life would have been almost impossible,
	for it was still "an abomination" for the circumcised to
	eat with the uncircumcised" [HOWSON].
	In refusing to compel Titus afterwards to be circumcised (Acts 21:29- :) at the bidding of Judaizing Christians, as necessary to
	salvation, he only vindicated "the truth of the Gospel" (Acts 21:29- :); in circumcising Timothy, "to the Jews he became as a
	Jew that he might gain the Jews." Probably Timothy's ordination
	took place now (1 Timothy 4:14;
	2 Timothy 1:6); and it was a service,
	apparently, of much solemnity—"before many witnesses"
	(1 Timothy 6:12).