Ephesians 5:19.  Speaking to one another;  lit, ‘yourselves,’ but the reciprocal sense is not unusual; and demanded here, as in Colossians 3:16. Some find here a reference to antiphonal singing, such as Pliny speaks of (‘to sing a song to Christ as God  by turns  among themselves’); but this is doubtful. The reciprocal influence on their hearts is meant; and that in social intercourse as well as in their public assemblies.
	 In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs; so Colossians 3:16. It is perhaps impossible to distinguish these very exactly; but ‘psalms’ would include the Old Testament psalms and probably sacred songs of a similar character. The original idea of the word, that of musical accompaniment, would hardly be retained at this time. ‘Hymns’ would include songs of praise, especially to Christ, while ‘spiritual songs’ would apply to all those lyrical compositions prompted by the Spirit (not simply on spiritual subjects). Some distinguish into scriptural, congregational, and private hymns; others make the third phrase the general term. As a matter of history Christian hymns were composed very early, and used in religious assemblies. There is no warrant for confining public praise to the use of the Old Testament psalms, or of paraphrases of other Scripture passages. Yet so rigid a practice is better than to encourage the multiplication of hymn books, born of pecuniary greed and full of unspiritual matter. The Sunday-school has suffered most in this respect. It is true ‘the hymns of Jesus are the Holy of Holies in the temple of sacred poetry’ (Schaff), and to banish Christian hymns is to exclude from this sanctuary, but to substitute for them unworthy and unchristian rhymes is not only to outrage taste but to profane the temple.
	 Singing and making melody. This is parallel with what precedes, and not explanatory of it. Besides the public and social song, there should be this private expression of Christian joy:  in your heart to the Lord. The two participles correspond with ‘songs’ and ‘psalms,’ and need not be exactly distinguished. The view which takes this clause as subordinate to the preceding part of the verse is open to objection. It usually explains ‘in your heart’ as = heartily, which is incorrect. It is this private singing which bests fits us for public praise. That it is addressed by the Christian ‘heart’ to Christ ‘the Lord’ is but natural.
	