Ephesians 5:14.  Wherefore he saith,  i.e.,  God saith; comp. chap. Ephesians 4:8. The connection of this verse also has been much discussed. It seems best to regard it as a confirmation of Ephesians 5:12-13. The Apostle would show by this paraphrase from the Old Testament, not only that the effect of the light is as he has described, but that this is a reason why Christians should reprove, since thus others may become light through the illumination which Christ promises. In general what is made manifest is light (Ephesians 5:13), but Christ so shines as to give new spiritual light. Let your light shine, so as to reprove, in the hope that Christ will shine upon the convicted heart. The Scripture passage (Isaiah 60:1-2) is partly paraphrased, partly condensed, and (in the case of the introduction of the word ‘Christ’) interpreted in accordance with its fulfilment. This view seems most satisfactory. Other explanations: (1.) A combination of several passages. Paul does thus combine (Romans 9:33; Romans 11:8; Romans 11:26), but not so loosely. (2.) A Christian hymn based on Scripture. Purely conjectural. (3.) An unrecorded saving of Christ. Nothing to indicate this. (4.) The general tenor of Scripture. Too indefinite. (5.) A slip of memory. This implies that Paul was as unfamiliar with the Old Testament as some modern preachers; an implication opposed by Jewish habit, by his own character, and by any tenable view of his Apostolic authority.
	 Awake thou that sleepest.  ‘Awake;’ the word used in arousing a sleeper: ‘up.’ The sleeper is one not yet a Christian, on whom the light is about to shine.
	 And arise from the dead.  The sinful condition is set forth under another common figure.
	 And Christ shall shine upon  thee.  The figure is that of the morning sun; comp. Isaiah 60:1-2. Here we have combined the two sides of human action and Divine power. Eadie compares this command to that riven by our Lord to the man with the withered hand: ‘Stretch it forth.’ If he had waited to solve the difficulty between his inability and Christ’s power, he would never have been healed. ‘The light which Christ sheds around Him has power to awake the sleeping dead’ (Hodge).
	