Faith [πιστις] . Without the article, indicating that it is treated in its abstract conception, and not merely as Christian faith. It is important that the preliminary definition should be clearly understood, since the following examples illustrate it. The key is furnished by ver. 27, as seeing him who is invisible. Faith apprehends as a real fact what is not revealed to the senses. It rests on that fact, acts upon it, and is upheld by it in the face of all that seems to contradict it. Faith is a real seeing. See Introduction, p. 363. Substance [υποστασις] . See on ch. Hebrews 1:3 and Hebrews 3:14. On the whole, the Rev. assurance gives the true meaning. The definition has a scholastic and philosophic quality, as might be expected from a pupil of the Alexandrian schools. The meaning substance, real being, given by A. V., Vulg., and many earlier interpreters, suggests the true sense, but is philosophically inaccurate. Substance, as used by these translators, is substantial nature; the real nature of a thing which underlies and supports its outward form or properties. In this sense it is very appropriate in ch. 1 3, in describing the nature of the Son as the image or impress of God 's essential being : but in this sense it is improperly applied to faith, which is an act of the moral intelligence directed at an object; or a condition which sustains a certain relation to the object. It cannot be said that faith is substantial being. It apprehends reality : it is that to which the unseen objects of hope become real and substantial. Assurance gives the true idea. It is the firm grasp of faith on unseen fact. Evidence [ελεγχος] . N. T. o. Quite often in LXX for yakach, to reprove, rebuke, punish, blame. See Proverbs 1:23; Wisd. 2 14; Sir. 21 12. See especially on the kindred verb ejlegcein, John 3:20. Rend. conviction. Observe that uJpostasiv and elegcov are not two distinct and independent conceptions, in which case kai would have been added; but they stand in apposition. Elegcov is really included in uJpostasiv, but adds to the simple idea of assurance a suggestion of influences operating to produce conviction which carry the force of demonstration. The word often signifies a process of proof or demonstration. So von Soden : "a being convinced. Therefore not a rash, feebly - grounded hypothesis, a dream of hope, the child of a wish." Of things [πραγματων] . Pragma is, strictly, a thing done; an accomplished fact. It introduces a wider conception than ejlpizomenwn things hoped for; embracing not only future realities, but all that does not fall under the cognizance of the senses, whether past, present, or future.