Faith was exhibited by Enoch in walking with God (comp. A. V. Genesis 5:22, "walked with God," and LXX, eujaresthse pleased God). Faith creates close personal relation. Hebrews 11:0:6To please [ευαρεστησαι] . The aorist gives the sense of at all, stating the verbal idea without time, as a universal proposition. Comp. Romans 8:8. Cometh [προσερχομενον] . See on ch. Hebrews 4:16. Must [δει] . An essential obligation. In the nature of the case. That he is [οτι εστιν] . Faith in God involves belief in his existence although he is unseen. Is a rewarder [μισθαποδοτης] . Note the difference of the verb : not simply exists, but comes to pass as; proves to be, habitually, so that he who approaches God has, through faith, the assurance that his seeking God will result in good to himself. Misqapodothv rewarder, N. T. o. Comp. misqapodosia recompense of reward, ch. 2 2 (note); Hebrews 10:35; Hebrews 11:26. Of them that diligently seek him (toiv ejkzhtousin aujton). Lit. unto them that seek him out. Comp. Acts 14:17; Hebrews 12:17; 1 Peter 1:10. The verb is used of seeking God, Romans 3:11. God 's beneficent will and attitude toward the seeker are not always apparent at the first approach. In such cases there is occasion for faith, in the face of delay, that diligent seeking will find its reward. One is reminded of Jesus ' lessons on importunity in seeking God, Luke 11:5-10; Luke 18:1-8. He hides himself so wondrously As though there were no God; He is least seen when all the powers Of ill are most abroad. Or he deserts us at the hour The fight is almost lost, And seems to leave us to ourselves Just when we need him most. It is not so, but so It looks; And we lose courage then; And doubts will come if God hath kept His promises to men. " Faber. Noah. Genesis 6:0. Being warned of God [χρηματισθεις] . Of God is not in the text. See on Matthew 2:12; Luke 2:26; Acts 11:26; and comp. Hebrews 8:5. Of things not seen as yet [περι των μηδεπω βλεπομενων] . Const. with eujlabhqeiv, and rend. "by faith Noah, being warned, having reverent care concerning things not seen as yet, prepared an ark," etc. Thus crhmatisqeiv warned is taken absolutely. 230 The things not seen were the well - known contents of the revelation to Noah, Genesis 6:13 ff., as apprehended by Noah 's faith. Moved with fear [ευλαβηθεις] . N. T. o. Often in Class. and LXX See on eujlabeia godly fear, ch. 5 7. The A. V. gives the impression that Noah acted under the influence of fright. Rev. improves on this a little by rendering godly fear. The true idea is pious care, a reverent circumspection with regard to things enjoined by God, and as yet unseen, yet confidently expected on the strength of God 's word. Prepared [κατεσκευασεν] . Built and equipped. See on ch. Hebrews 3:3. An ark [κιβωτον] . Originally, a wooden chest Also of the ark of the covenant in the temple and tabernacle, as ch. 9 4; Revelation 11:19 Of Noah 's ark. Matthew 24:38; Luke 17:27; 1 Peter 3:20 Larvax a chest is found in Class. in the same sense. Every classical scholar will recall the charming fragment of Simonides on Danae and her infant son Perseus exposed in an ark : JOte larnaki ejn daisalea anesmov breme pnewn k. t. 50 Also of the ark of Deucalion, the mythic Noah. By the which [δι ης] . By faith : although some refer it to the ark. He condemned the world [κατεκρινεν τον κοσμον] . His faith was exhibited in building the ark on the mere strength of God 's declaration, while as yet there were no signs of the flood. By his faith thus manifested he announced the condemnation of the world to destruction. World is to be taken as in 2 Peter 2:5. It is not used in Heb. in the ethical sense so common in John and Paul - the world as alien from God. The meaning of the statement is not that Noah condemned the conduct of his contemporaries by the contrast presented by his own faith, after the analogy of Matthew 12:41; Romans 2:27. And became heir [και - εγενετο κληρονομος] . This is not an independent clause, but is dependent on di' h=v by which. It is connected by kai with the preceding clause, and the two clauses are parallel, describing the lot of Noah and his family. Became heir is practically = became partaker of. The literal sense of heir must not be pressed. Certainly not "inherited the righteousness of Abel and Enoch." But righteousness came to Noah in virtue of his intimate fellowship with God. Of him as of Enoch, it is said that "he walked with God," Genesis 6:9. Because of this fellowship he was a son of God and an heir of righteousness. Of the righteousness which is by faith [της κατα πιστις δικαιοσυνης] . In the O. T. Noah is the first to receive the title of dikaiov righteous, Genesis 6:9; comp. Ezekiel 14:14, Ezekiel 14:20; Sir. 44 17. Kata pistin, lit. according to faith, comp Matthew 9:29; Titus 1:1, Titus 1:4. Paul has dikaiosunh and dikaiov from or out of faith [εκ πιστεως] , by faith [δια πιστεως] , founded on faith [επι τη πιστει] , and of faith [πιστεως] , none of which are found either in Hebrews or in the Pastorals. Kata pistin signifies according to faith as a standard; but the conception at bottom is not essentially different from Paul 's, unless there be imported into his conception the scholastic fiction of imputed righteousness. Paul, in Romans 4:0 is at pains to show that the Christian conception of righteousness by faith has its parallel in Abraham, and that the doctrine of justification by faith is no new thing. Faith is the ground and the germ of righteousness. Our writer here lays down the absolute and universal standard of righteousness for the men of both dispensations - according to faith. Hence, like Paul, he cites the words of Habakkuk 2:4. See ch. Hebrews 10:38.