Neither does this verse belong to the list of historical instances from Genesis, in which men exercised faith. It is merely the first instance presented in O. T. history of an opportunity for the exercise of faith as the assurance and conviction of things not seen. Like ver. 2, it is closely connected with the definition. It contains the exposition of the nature of faith, by showing that in its earliest and most general expression - belief in the creation of the visible universe by God - it is a conviction of something not apprehensible by sense. 225 We understand [νοουμεν] . Noein signifies to perceive with the nouv or reflective intelligence. In Class. of seeing with the eyes, sometimes with ojfqalmoiv expressed; but as early as Homer it is distinguished from the mere physical act of vision, as perception of the mind consequent upon seeing. Thus, ton de ijdwn ejnohse and seeing him he perceived (Il. 11. 599) : oujk idon oujd' ejnohsa I neither saw nor perceived (Obadiah 1:13. 318). In N. T. never of the mere physical act. Here is meant the inward perception and apprehension of the visible creation as the work of God, which follows the sight of the phenomena of nature. The worlds [τους αιωνας] . Lit. the ages. The world or worlds as the product of successive aeons. See on ch. Hebrews 1:2. Were framed [κατηρτισθαι] . Put together; adjusted; the parts fitted to each other. See on Galatians 6:1; Matthew 21:16; Luke 6:40. Of the preparing and fixing in heaven of the sun and moon, LXX, Psalms 73:16; Psalms 88:37 : of building a wall, 2 Ezra 4:12, Ezra 4:13, Ezra 4:16. See also Psalms 39:6. Rend. have been framed. The A. V. gives the impression of one giving his assent to an account of creation; but the perfect tense exhibits the faith of one who is actually contemplating creation itself. By the word of God [ρηματι] . Comp. Genesis 1:0; Psalms 33:6; Psalms 118:5. So that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear [εις το μη εκ φαινομενων το βλεπομενον γεγονεναι] . For things which are seen, rend. that which is seen. For were not made rend. hath not been made. jEiv to followed by the infinitive signifies result, not purpose. We perceive that the worlds have been framed by the word of God, so that (this being the case) that which is visible has not arisen out of that which is seen. 226 Mh not negatives the remainder of the clause taken as a whole. In other words, the proposition denied is, that which is seen arose out of visible things. By many early interpreters mh was transposed, and construed with fainomenwn alone, signifying "that which is seen has arisen from things which do not appear." These things were explained as chaos, the invisible creative powers of God, etc.