For that ye ought to say,.... Instead of saying we will go to such and such a place, and do this, and that, and the other thing, it should be said,if the Lord will, and we shall live, and do this and that; the last "and" is left out in the Vulgate Latin, Syriac, Arabic, and Ethiopic versions; and the passage rendered thus, "if the Lord will, and we shall live, we will do this": so that here are two conditions of doing anything; the one is, if it should be agreeable to the determining will and purpose of God, by which everything in the world comes to pass, and into which the wills of men should be resolved, and resigned; and the other is, if we should live, since life is so very uncertain and precarious: and the sense is, not that this exact form of words should be always used, but what is equivalent to them, or, at least, that there should be always a sense of these things upon the mind; and there should be a view to them in all resolutions, designs, and engagements: and since the words are so short and comprehensive, it might be proper for Christians to use themselves to such a way of speaking; upon all occasions; we find it used by the Apostle Paul frequently, as inActs 18:2, and even by Jews, Heathens, and Turks. It is a saying of Ben Syra, the Jew p,"let a man never say he will do anything, before he saysאם גוזר השם, "if God will"''So Cyrus, king of Persia, when, under pretence of hunting, he designed an expedition into Armenia, upon which an hare started, and was caught by an eagle, said to his friends, this will be a good or prosperous hunting to us, ην θεος θελη, "if God will" q. And very remarkable are the words of Socrates to Alcibiades, inquiring of him how he ought to speak; says Socrates, εας θεος εθελη, "if God will" r; and says he, in another place s,"but I will do this, and come unto thee tomorrow, "if God will".''And it is reported of the Turks t, that they submit everything to the divine will; as the success of war, or a journey, or anything, even of the least moment, they desire to be done; and never promise themselves, or others, anything, but under this condition, "In Shallah", if God will.p Sentent. 11. q Xenophon. Cyropaed. l. 2. c. 25. r Plato in Aleibiade, p. 135. s Plato in Laches. t Smith de Moribus Turc. p. 74.