 16 .]  but now (as the case now is: the logical νῦν : see 1Co 13:13 note, and our ch. Heb 8:6 )  they desire ( ὀρέγεσθαί τινος , classical: see many instances in Wetst. on 1Ti 3:1 )  a better (home),  that is, a heavenly one (the justification of this assertion, which seems to ascribe N. T. ideas to the O. T. fathers, must be found in such sayings as that of the dying Jacob, Genesis 49:18 , which only represent a wide class of their faithful thoughts):  wherefore God is not ashamed of them (reff.)  to be called (here ἐπαισχύνεσθαι has a double object, αὐτούς and ἐπικαλεῖσθαι . For the latter construction also see reff.)  their God (viz. in reff. Exod. Thdrt. (not Chrys. as Bleek) says, ὁ γὰρ τῶν δυνάμεων κύριος καὶ τῶν ἀγγέλων δεσπότης καὶ οὐρανοῦ καὶ γῆς ποιητής , ἐρωτηθεὶς Τί ὄνομά σου , τἄλλα πάντα καταλιπὼν ἔφη Ἐγὼ θεὸς Ἀβραάμ , καὶ θεὸς Ἰσαάκ , καὶ θεὸς Ἰακώβ . From the present ἐπαισχύνεται , and especially from the clause which follows, it is probable, as Bleek has well remarked, that the Writer intends not merely to adduce that God did once call Himself their God, but that he is  now not ashamed to be so called, they enduring and abiding with Him where He is: in the same sense in which our Lord adduces the same circumstance, Matthew 22:31 ff. and [62] . See below):  for He prepared for them a city (permanent and eternal, in contrast to the tents in which they wandered. There are two ways of understanding this clause: 1. with Schlichting, Grot., Böhme, De W., Hofmann, Delitzsch, to take the aor. as a pluperfect, “for God had prepared for them a city:” “quia Deus cœlestem illam patriam et regnum suum Abrahamo, Isaaco, et Jacobo destinavit, propterea se Deum illorum summumque patronum jure et merito appellat,” Schlicht.: 2. with Thl., al., and Bleek, τοσοῦτον οὐκ ἐπαισχύνεται αὐτούς , ἀλλ ʼ οἰκείους ἔχει , ὥστε καὶ τὴν πόλιν , ἣν ἐπεθύμουν , τὴν ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς , ἡτοίμασεν αὐτοῖς . I would adopt a modification of this last. God is not ashamed of them, nor to be called their God: and we find proof of this not only in His thus naming Himself, but in His  preparing for them a city: the home for which they yearned: He did not deceive their hopes, but acted as their God by verifying those hopes. Thus, and thus only, does  ἡτοίμασεν keep its proper emphasis, and the aor. its proper time:  they looked for a city : and God refused not to be called their God, for He  prepared for them that city, verified those their hopes. And if we ask for the  interpretation of ἡτοίμασεν , I answer, in the preparation of the way of Christ, and bringing in salvation by Him, of which salvation they in their anticipation of faith were partakers, John 8:56 , Ἀβραὰμ … ἠγαλλιάσατο ἵνα ἴδῃ τὴν ἡμέραν τὴν ἐμήν , καὶ εἶδεν καὶ ἐχάρη ).
	 [62] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .