 34 .]  quenched the power of fire (so the three companions of Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Daniel 3:0 . Thl. says, οὐκ εἶπε δὲ ἔσβεσαν πῦρ , ἀλλὰ δύναμιν πυρός , ὃ καὶ μεῖζου · ἐξαπτόμενος γὰρ ὅμως δύναμιν τοῦ καίειν οὐκ εἶχε κατ ʼ αὐτῶν . It is said of them, 1Ma 2:59 , that they πιστεύσαντες ἐσώθησαν ἐκ φλογός . Delitzsch reminds us that one of the two martyrs at Brussels, Henry Voes and Joh. Esche, when the flames of the faggots rose round him, said, that it felt to him as if they were strewing roses under him),  escaped the edge (  στόματα , plur., because the Writer has various examples in mind)  of the sword (e. g. David from Saul, 1 Samuel 18:11 ; 1 Samuel 19:10 ; 1 Samuel 19:12 ; 1 Samuel 21:10 ; Elijah, 1 Kings 19:1 ff. Elisha, 2 Kings 6:14 ff., 2 Kings 6:31 ff.: Jeremiah, Baruch, Jeremiah 36:26 ; Ebedmelech, Jeremiah 38:8 ff., compared with Jer 39:18 ),  were made strong out of weakness (so Samson, after his hair grew, Judges 16:28 ff.: David, who ends so many of his plaintive psalms with jubilant thanksgiving: Hezekiah, who after deadly sickness was restored to fifteen years of health, 2 Kings 20:0 ; Isaiah 38:0 [see also ref. Judg., of Gideon]. The ancient expositors refer the words, not so probably, to the strengthening of Israel after the return from the captivity: so Chrys., ἀπὸ ἀσθενείας , τουτέστιν , ἀπὸ αἰχμαλωσίας . τὰ κατὰ τὴν ἐπάνοδον τὴν ἀπὸ Βαβυλῶνος ἐνταῦθα αἰνίττεται ),  were made (see note on ch. Heb 4:3 )  strong in war (Thdrt. says, καὶ οἱ προῤῥηθέντες , καὶ οἱ τοῦ Ματταθίου παῖδες , Ἰούδας καὶ Ἰωνάθης καὶ Σίμων . It is not improbable that these later glories of the faith were also before the Writer’s mind: they unquestionably are in the next verse),  put to flight (the classical usage: so II. ε . 37, Τρῶας δ ʼ ἔκλιναν Δαναοί : Il. ξ . 510: Od. ι . 59)  armies (  παρεμβολή , which occurs in ch. 13 (reff.) in its usual sense of a  camp , is not unfrequently used in Hellenistic Greek for the army which is in the camp: see reff., and add Ælian, Var. Hist. xiv. 46, οἱ κύνες προπηδῶντες ἐτάραττον τὴν παρεμβολήν )  of aliens (see reff. The word is common in the LXX, of Gentiles, aliens from God’s people. The reference of the fact may be general, to many who have preceded: but I should rather regard it as describing the Maccabæan victories. Delitzsch would understand all from ἔφυγον στόματα μαχαίρας , of those times: the escape of Mattathias and his sons into the mountains, the increase and success of the little band that strengthened itself in God, the first victories of Judas Maccabæus over Apollonius, Seron, and others, the formal and victorious war of the Asmonæan heroes with the Syrians and neighbouring people. “That the Writer,” he continues, “should recognize these as illustrious deeds of faith, is no wonder. In our times indeed it is the custom to represent the mighty revival of the Maccabæan period rather as human than divine, rather as patriotic and popular than theocratic and national: but the book of Daniel shews us, in prophetic delineation of that time, the holy people of the Most High, conflicting with the atheistic and antichristian prince of this world, and ascribes to this conflict the highest imaginable importance in reference to the sacred history. Therefore I hold that the clauses from ἔφυγον pass beyond τῶν προφητῶν , and over the book of Daniel to the first of Maccabees, which in the LXX is attached to it: which indeed is generally acknowledged with regard to the two last clauses, and is the more certain because παρεμβολή ( מַחֲנֶה ), both in the sense of a  camp , and in that of an army in order of battle, is one of the favourite words in 1 Macc., and ἀλλότριοι (as well as ἀλλόφυλοι ) occurs there, as the translation of זָרִים or נָכְרִים : e. g. i. 38; ii. 7: cf. xv. 33.” And perhaps after all, this may be the true view).