 23 .] Now the writer passes on to Exodus, and its chief example, Moses, who even in his preservation by his parents was the child of faith.  By faith Moses when born was hidden three months (  τρίμηνον is probably feminine, see ref. Herod., and cf. τὴν δευτέραν ἕκμηνον , Polyb. xxvii. 6. 2: τὸν χρόνον τὸν τῆς τριμήνου , Æschin. Ctes. p. 63. 34. τὸ τρίμηνον is also in use: Polyb. i. 38. 6; v. 1. 12, and in Plut. and Ptolemy: and we have ὃ ἑξάμηνος , Xen. Hell. ii. 3. 9)  by his parents (  οἱ πατέρες is explained by Bengel, al., “Occultatus est Moses a  patribus , id est a patre (Amram) et ab avo, non materno, qui erat ipse Levi, sed paterno, qui erat Kohath. Vixit ergo Kohath, nascente Mose. Magnus loci hujus recte explicati usus est in chronologia sacra.” But whatever inferences are deduced from it rest, it is to be feared, on a very slender foundation: for there can be no doubt that οἱ πατέρες does signify  parents . In a passage of Parthenius, Erot. 10, cited by Wetst., we have εἰς ἐπιθυμίαν Λευκώνης ἐλθών , παρὰ τῶν πατέρων αἰτησάμενος αὐτὴν ἠγάγετο γυναῖκα . See other Greek and Latin examples in Wetst. The instance given by Delitzsch from Plato, Legg. vi. p. 772 end, is not decisive, ἀγαθῶν πατέρων φύντι . In the Hebrew text of Exodus 2:2 , it is his mother only who does the whole: but the LXX have the plural as here),  because they saw the child was comely (so in Exod. ἀστεῖον , τουτέστιν ὡραῖον , τῇ ὄψει χαρίεν , Thl.: καὶ νῦν ἀστεία εἶ σὺ ἐν τῷ εἴδει σου , Jdt 11:23 . Thdrt. says, εἰς γὰρ τὸ τοῦ παιδὸς ἀποβλέψαντες εἶδος , θείας αὐτὸ κηδεμονίας ἤλπισαν ἀπολαύσασθαι ):  and they feared not the command of the king (to destroy all the male children, Exodus 1:22 . So Philo, Vita Mos. i. 3, vol. ii. p. 82, γεννηθεὶς ὁ παῖς εὐθὺς ὄψιν ἐνέφῃνεν ἀστειοτέραν ἢ κατ ʼ ἰδιώτην , ὡς καὶ τῶν τοῦ τυράννου κηρυγμάτων ἐφ ʼ ὅσον οἷόν τε ἦν τοὺς γονεῖς ἀλογῆσαι . Their faith was, loving trust in God who had given them so fair a child, which led them to perform as far as in them lay, the duties of parents to it, and not the cruel part which the tyrant prescribed.  διάταγμα is a word of later Greek: see reff., and Philo de Decal. § 4, p. 183).