 38 .]  of whom (viz. those who wandered about as in Hebrews 11:37 ; for the participial construction is resumed below, and in reference to these same persons. οὗτοι  πάντες first occurs in the next verse.
	Of course, Carpzov’s reference of  ὧν is inadmissible, “quorum indignus malorum erat mundus: id est, tam crudelibus affecti sunt suppliciis, ut illa mundo indigna sint: ut orbem terrarum non deceat, tam horrenda ac φοβερώτατα de eo dici”)  the world was not worthy (the world, by casting them out and persecuting them, proved that it was not fit to have them in it: condemned itself, in condemning them. Cf. Calvin, “Quum ita profugi inter feras vagabantur sancti Prophetæ, videri poterant indigni quos terra sustineret. Qui fit enim ut inter homines locum non inveniant? Sed Apostolus in contrariam partem hoc retorquet, nempe quod mundus illis non esset dignus. Nam quocunque veniant servi Dei, ejus benedictionem, quasi fragrantiam boni odoris, secum afferunt. Sic domus Potiphar benedicta fuit in gratiam Josephi, Genesis 39:5 , et Sodoma salva futura erat, si in ea inventi fuissent decem justi homines, Gen 18:32 ”);  wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the chinks of the earth (the Holy Land was especially calculated, by its geological formation, and its wildernesses, to afford shelter to persecuted persons: so did it to a hundred of the Lord’s prophets whom Obadiah hid by fifty in a cave ( σπήλαιον ), 1 Kings 18:4 ; 1 Kings 18:13 ; to Elijah, ib. 1 Kings 19:9 ; 1 Kings 19:13 ; to Mattathias and his sons, who fled to the mountains, 1Ma 2:28 f., and many others in the wilderness: to Judas Maccabæus, who fled with others εἰς τὴν ἔρημον and there lived ἐν τοῖς ὄρεσι like the wild beasts, 2Ma 5:27 . Cf. also ib. 2Ma 6:11 ; 2Ma 10:6 . Jos. Antt. xii. 6. 2, of Mattathias, καὶ ταῦτα εἰπὼν μετὰ τῶν τέκνων εἰς τὴν ἔρημον ἐξώρμησε , καταλιπὼν ἅπασαν τὴν αὐτοῦ κτῆσιν ἐν τῇ κώμῃ . τὸ δὲ αὐτὸ καὶ πολλοὶ ποιήσαντες , μετὰ τέκνων καὶ γυναικῶν ἔφυγον εἰς τὴν ἔρημον καὶ ἐν τοῖς σπηλαίοις διῆγον . But τῆς γῆς must not be taken for “  the land ,” viz. Palestine, as Böhme: it is general).