 13 .]  In (according to, consistently with, in the course of: not this time πίστει , because their deaths were not the results of their faith, but merely according to and consistent with it)  faith died these all (there is no need to say with Œc., Thl., Primas., al., ἐξῃρημένου τοῦ Ἐνώχ : the promises began with Abraham, and it is evident from the end of our verse, and from Hebrews 11:15 , that the reference is solely to the patriarchs),  not having received (the participial clause conditions and substantiates the κατὰ πίστιν … ἀπέθανον : and for this reason it is μὴ λαβ . and not οὐ : ‘as those who did not receive’ &c.)  the promises (plur., because the promise was again and again repeated to the patriarchs, see the citations from Gen. above, and add Genesis 17:5-8 ; Genesis 26:3-4 ; Genesis 28:13-14 . The  ἐπαγγελία , here as so often comprehends τὸ ἐπηγγελμένον ),  but having seen them from afar ( καὶ πεισθέντες , see var. readd., has come in from a gloss: so Chrys., οὗτοι πεπεισμένοι ἦσαν περὶ αὐτῶν ὡς καὶ ἀσπάσασθαι αὐτάς : Œc., καὶ ἀσπασάμενοι · πεισθέντες ),  and greeted them (“From afar they saw the promises in the reality of their fulfilment, from afar they greeted them as the wanderer greets his longed-for home even when he only comes in sight of it at a distance, drawing to himself as it were magnetically and embracing with inward love that which is yet afar off. The exclamation, ‘I have waited for thy salvation, O Lord,’ Genesis 49:18 , is such an ἀσπασμός , such a greeting of salvation from afar.” Delitzsch. Wetst. quotes Virg. Æn. iii. 522, “Quum procul obscuros colles humilemque viderem Italiam.… Italiam læto socii clamore salutant”),  and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth (this Abraham did, ref. Gen., to the children of Heth, πάροικος καὶ παρεπίδημος ἐγώ εἰμι μεθ ʼ ὑμῶν : and Jacob, Genesis 47:9 , to Pharaoh, αἱ ἡμέραι τῶν ἐτῶν τῆς ζωῆς μοι ἃς παροικῶ κ . τ . λ . See Psalms 118:19 ; Ecclesiastes 12:5 ; Philo de Agricult. § 14, vol. i. p. 310, τῷ ὄντι πᾶσα μὲν ψυχὴ σοφοῦ πατρίδα μὲν οὐρανόν , ξένην δὲ γῆν ἔλαχεν : and Confus. Ling. § 17, p. 416, διὰ τοῦτο οἱ κατὰ Μωυσῆν σοφοὶ πάντες εἰσάγονται παροικοῦντες · αἱ γὰρ τούτων ψυχαὶ στέλλονται μὲν ἀποικίαν δή ποτε τὴν ἐξ οὐρανοῦ . In Wetst., several citations are given from the classics where human life is called a παρεπιδημία . The word is found in Ælian (V. H. viii. 4) and Polybius (xxxii. 22. 4), and παρεπιδημέω and - μία often).