 19 .] (reason of this paradoxical conduct: because Abraham’s faith was able, in anticipation, to clear the suspicion of God’s faithfulness by the suggestion of His power. He could and would make a way to the keeping of His own promise)  reckoning that God is (not,  was , see below)  able to raise (no supply of “  him ” is admissible, as mistakenly inserted by many Commentators and even by the E. V. It was not God’s power to raise  Isaac , but God’s power, generally, to raise from the dead, that Abraham believed. This, which is so plain from the form of the sentence, is made plainer still by the use of the present  ἐγείρειν , not the aor. ἐγεῖραι which would more probably be used if a single case had been in view: see Matthew 16:21 ; Mark 14:28 ; Luke 3:8 ; Luke 9:22 . The aor. here (see digest) has probably been a correction arising from the application to Isaac)  even from (among) the dead (St. Matt. commonly uses, with ἐγεῖρειν , ἀπὸ τῶν νεκρῶν : St. Luke, John, Paul, ἐκ νεκρῶν ),  from whence (i. e. from the dead: so Thdr.-mops., Castellio, Beza, Schlichting, Grot., Lamb. Bos, Michaelis, Schulz, Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, Tholuck, Stier, Hofmann, Delitzsch. But most Commentators regard ὅθεν as the illative particle, “whence,” “unde,” as in the other five places where it occurs in this Epistle, ch. Hebrews 2:17 ; Hebrews 3:1 ; Hebrews 7:25 ; Hebrews 8:3 ; Hebrews 9:18 . The whole meaning is discussed below)  he also ( καί ;  besides the λογίσασθαι . It belongs, not to ἐν παραβολῇ alone, but to the whole fact, ἐν παραβολῇ ἐκομίσατο to the verb with its qualifying adverb)  received him back (so κομίζεσθαι often: e. g. Polyb. i. 83. 8; iii. 51. 12, of captives: i. 59. 7, of money expended: iii. 40. 10, of hostages: x. 34. 3, 8, 10, of wife and children ( μάλιστα πεπεισμένος οὕτως τὴν γυναῖκα καὶ τὰ τέκνα κομιεῖσθαι ): of a fortress or city, ii. 51. 6 al. fr. So Philo de Joseph. § 35, vol. ii. p. 71, κομίσασθαι τὸν ἀδελφὸν ἀνύβριστον : § 38, p. 74, τίς γὰρ ἂν γένοιτο πατρὶ δωρεὰ μείζων ἢ τὸν ἀπογνωσθέντα (Joseph) κομίσασθαι ; And Josephus, Antt. i. 13. 4, uses the word of Abraham and Isaac on the very occasion here in question: οἱ δὲ παρ ʼ ἐλπίδας ἑαυτοὺς κεκομισμένοι . See also reff. and 1Ma 13:37 ; 2Ma 7:29 ; 2Ma 10:1 . In the face of these examples, Sykes and Schulz assert that the word never has this meaning)  in a parable (figuratively: in what sense, see below). This clause has been very variously interpreted. The prevalent understanding of it, since Camerarius and Raphel, has been, “whence (= wherefore) also he received him by means of (  in , instrumental) his surrender of him.” And this Lünemann, who has adopted it, calls the simple and only right sense of the words. According to this view παραβολή signifies a giving up to danger, a παραβάλλεσθαι ( τὴν ψυχήν ), which latter is an expression often found, e. g. Hom. Il. ι . 322: Thuc. ii. 44. But though there is abundant example of the verb in this sense, there is none of the substantive, nor any thing approaching to one (in Passow indeed we have as a sense of παραβολή ,  das Dransessen, aufs Spiel sessen, Wagen, Wagniss, Wagstuct : and in Liddell and Scott, “the making a venture;” but it is entirely unsupported by example, either in classic or Hellenistic Greek, and therefore very properly excluded by Palm and Rost). This rendering then must fall to the ground, unless it can be shewn that no other will serve, and thus we are justified in supposing it the only case in which παραβολή occurs in this sense. Near akin to this is the view of Raphel (and Krebs), who says, “Quemadmodum ἐν ἀληθείᾳ pro ἀληθῶς , ἐν τάχει pro ταχέως , aliaque hujusmodi dicuntur: ita etiam ἐν παραβολῇ pro παραβόλως puto accipi posse: quo verbo sæpius utitur Polybius: cujus interpres Casaubonus, licet verterit  audacter , et Camerarius in comment. utriusque linguæ  periculose , certum tamen est, aliquibus locis etiam  insperato verti posse:” cf. παρ ʼ ἐλπίδας in Josephus, above. Then he attempts to prove this from Polybius and from Pliny, Ep. ix. 26. 4, “Sunt enim maxime mirabilia quæ maxime insperata, maxime periculosa, utque Græci magis exprimunt, παράβολα .” But neither this nor any of the passages from Polyb. proves his point; every one of them having the meaning  boldly , not  unexpectedly . It seems then that we must abandon all idea of this class of interpretations, and fall back on the usual one, found in our ch. Hebrews 9:9 , and every where else in the N. T., of a likeness or figure. In favour of this meaning it may also be asked, Is it in the least probable that our Writer would have put before his readers so common an expression in so uncommon a sense? But, when we have taken the more ordinary meaning, we are by no means set at rest. For, α . Hammond, Lamb. Bos, Alberti, Mill, Sykes, Schulz, Stuart, refer the words to the  birth of Isaac, “from whence,” i. e. ἐκ νενεκρωμένου σώματος , “he had at first received him.” But, 1. this would certainly require the more definite pluperfect, not the quasi-pluperfect of an aorist reaching back beyond λογισάμενος ; and, 2. it would be harsh and unnatural that the ἐκ νεκρῶν should refer to the person himself who ἐκομίσατο αὐτόν . β . Corn. a-Lapide regards Isaac himself as the παραβολή , interpreting by the Latin “in parabolam ( εἰς παραβολήν ); id est, ut Isaac esset parabola, fabula, proverbium, exemplum memorabile &c.… ut cum Deus per se aut suos nobis aliquid jusserit licet arduum et difficile, exemplum Isaac ob oculos habentes, fidenter et generose nos offeramus,” &c. γ . Bengel, on the other hand, regards Abraham as the παραβολή , “omnis enim posteritas celebrat fidem Abrahæ, offerentis unigenitum.” δ . Others take ἐν παραβολῇ to mean,  as a type ; either of the Resurrection generally (so Thdrt., ὡς ἐν συμβόλῳ καὶ τύπῳ τῆς ἀναστάσεως · τῇ γὰρ τοῦ πατρὸς ἀναιρεθεὶς προθυμίᾳ , τῇ τοῦ κεκωλυκότος τὴν σφαγὴν ἀνεβίω φωνῇ but afterwards he refers the figure to the passion of Christ: al.), or of our Lord’s sufferings (so Chrys., τουτέστιν , ἐν ὑποδείγματι · ἐν τῷ κριῷ , φησί . πῶς ; τοῦ γὰρ κριοῦ σφαγισθέντος οὗτος ἐσώθη · ὥστε διὰ τοῦ κριοῦ αὐτὸν ἔλαβεν , ἀντὶ τούτου σφάξας ἐκεῖνον . ταῦτα δὲ τύποι τινὲς ἦσαν · ἐνταῦθα γὰρ ὁ υἱός ἐστι τοῦ θεοῦ ὁ σφαγιαζόμενος : Œc., among many interpretations, Primas., Carpzov, al.). But, undeniable as is the typical reference of the whole occurrence to Christ, His sufferings and Resurrection, it seems exceedingly improbable that our Writer should have intended so much for his readers by ἐν παραβολῇ . We come then, approaching what I believe to be the true meaning, to, ε . that given by Theodore of Mopsuestia: τοῦτο λέγει , ὅτι ἀκολούθως ἔτυχεν τῇ ἑαυτοῦ πίστει · τῇ γὰρ ἀναστάσει πιστεύσας , διὰ συμβόλων τινῶν ἀποθανόντα αὐτὸν ἐκομίσατο . τὸ γὰρ ἐν πολλῇ τοῦ θανάτου προσδοκίᾳ γενόμενον μηδὲν παθεῖν , τοῦ ἀληθῶς ἀναστησομένου σύμβολον ἦν , ὅσον τοῦ θανάτου πρὸς βραχὺ γευσάμενος , ἀνέστη μηδὲν ὑπὸ τοῦ θανάτου παθών · τὸ γοῦν ἐν παραβολῇ ἀντὶ τοῦ ἐν συμβόλοις . So Calvin, “Tametsi vere non resurrexerit Isaac, quodammodo tamen videtur resurrexisse, quum repente et mirabiliter inexspectata Dei gratia eripitur:” Castellio, Beza, Schlichting, Grot., Jac. Cappell., Scaliger, Heinsius, and many others, Bleek, De W., Stier, Hofmann, Delitzsch. The objection to this seems to be that which Del. himself brings against some of its supporters, that it does not go far enough for ἐν παραβολῇ , but by its “  quodammodo ,” and “  similitudine quadam ,” weakens it too much. We may with reason ask,  What was the παραβολή ? if it is meant merely, that though not actually, yet in some sense, Abraham received Isaac from the dead, would not ὡς ἔπος εἰπεῖν be the more obvious way of expressing this? The true identification of the παραβολή is I am persuaded to be found in the figure under which Isaac was sacrificed, viz. the ram, as already hinted by Chrysostom. Abraham virtually sacrificed his son: God designated Isaac for the burnt-offering, but provided a ram in his stead. Under the figure of that ram, Isaac was slain, being received back by his father in his proper person, risen from that death which he had undergone ἐν παραβολῇ , in, under, the figure of the ram. Chrys. himself afterwards, in recapitulating, gives this very interpretation as an alternative: ὅθεν αὐτὸν φησί , καὶ ἐν παραβολῇ ἐκομίσατο · τουτέστιν , ἐν αἰνίγματι · ὥσπερ γὰρ παραβολὴ ἦν ὁ κριὸς τοῦ Ἰσαάκ .