 12 .]  Wonderful result of this faith of Abraham and Sarah .  Wherefore also (  διὸ καί , which occurs again ch. Hebrews 13:12 , is frequent in St. Luke and St. Paul, see reff.)  from one sprung there (the reading is doubtful, but ἐγεν . ἀπό seems to suit better the  father , whereas ἐγενν . ἀπό , ‘these were born from,’ would almost necessarily be said of the  mother )  and that (there is no foundation for Lünemann’s notion, that the plur.  ταῦτα has reference to the two circumstances, the deadness of Abraham and the unbelief of Sarah: ταῦτα in such sentences is perpetually the collective plural, = τοῦτο . Cf. Kühner, Gram. § 667 c, who gives as examples, Plato, Rep. iii. p. 404 B, Ὅμηρος … ἐν ταῖς τῶν ἡρώων ἑστιάσεσιν οὔτε ἰχθύσιν αὐτοὺς ἑστιᾷ , καὶ ταῦτα ἐπὶ θαλάττῃ τῇ Ἑλλησπόντῳ ὄντας : Demosth. c. Phorm. Extr., θανάτῳ ζημιώσαντες εἰσαγγελθέντα ἐν τῷ δήμῳ , καὶ ταῦτα πολίτην ὑμέτερον ὄντα , “quamvis civis vester esset”) (  from one )  deadened (past that vital power which nature requires: see ref. Rom.)  even as (it may be asked what is the subject to ἐγενήθησαν ? Some supply τέκνα or ἔκγονοι , see Winer, § 64. 3: but it is better to make the whole, καθώς to the end, the virtual subject, latent in καθώς = ὡμοιωμένοι τοῖς ἄστρ . κ . τ . λ .)  the stars of the heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the lip (margin, cf. παρὰ χεῖλος ἑκατέρου τοῦ ποταμοῦ in ref. Herod. and Polyb. v. 14. 6; iii. 43. 8 al. fr. in index)  of the sea which is innumerable (so ran the promises to Abraham, Genesis 13:16 , καὶ ποιήσω τὸ σπέρμα σου ὡς τὴν ἄμμον τῆς γῆς : Genesis 15:5 , ἀνάβλεψον δὴ εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν , καὶ ἀρίθμησον τοὺς ἀστέρας , εἰ δυνήσῃ ἐξαριθμῆσαι αὐτούς · καὶ εἶπεν , Οὕτως ἔσται τὸ σπέρμασου : and more fully Genesis 22:17 , πληθύνων πληθυνῶ τὸ σπέρμα σου ὡς τοὺς ἀστέρας τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , καὶ ὡς τὴν ἄμμον τὴν παρὰ τὸ χεῖλος τῆς θαλάσσης . The comparison with the sand as indicating great number is frequently found in the O. T., e. g. Genesis 41:49 ; Joshua 11:4 ; 1Sa 13:5 ; 2 Samuel 17:11 ; 1 Kings 4:29 ; Isaiah 10:22 . Cf. also Herod. i. 48, οἶδα δ ʼ ἐγὼ ψάμμου τ ʼ ἀριθμόν , καὶ μέτρα θαλάσσης , and Pind. Olymp. ii. in fine, ἐπεὶ ψάμμος ἀριθμὸν περιπέφευγεν ).