 35 .]  Women received (back: so Xen. Cyr. v. 1. 1, ταύτην οὖν ( τὴν γυναῖκα ) ἐκέλευσεν ὁ Κῦρος διαφυλάττειν … ἕως ἂν αὐτὸς λάβῃ . See also below)  their dead by (out of, by means of, their reception springing out of it as its cause)  resurrection (not,  the resurrection : see below. The cases alluded to seem to be those of the widow of Zarephath, 1 Kings 17:17 ff., and the Shunamite, 2 Kings 4:17 ff., whose sons were raised, the former by Elijah, the latter by Elisha. The faith must be that of the women themselves, the subject of the sentence, not merely that in the Prophets):  but (for the contrast, see below)  others were broken on the wheel (the case especially referred to is that of Eleazar, 2Ma 6:18 end; and the  τύμπανον seems to have been an instrument like a wheel or drumhead, on which the victim was stretched and scourged to death: cf. reff. Josephus, de Macc. Hebrews 11:9-10 ( 4Ma 5:32 ), makes Eleazar say to Antiochus, πρὸς ταῦτα τροχοὺς εὐτρέπιζε κ . τ . λ . And in the deaths of the seven brothers, which are related differently from the account in 2 Maccabees 7, we read of the first ( 4Ma 9:12 ), ἀνέβαλον αἰτὸν ἐπὶ τὸν τροχόν , and similarly of several of the others. See Bleek and Wetst. for examples of the word. It occurs in the Schol. to Aristoph. Plut. 476, ὦ τύμπανα καὶ κύφωνες , οὐκ ἀρήξετε , where the Schol. says, τύμπ ., ξύλα , ἐφ ʼ οἷς ἐτυμπάνιζον · ἐχρῶντο γὰρ ταύτῃ τῇ τιμωρίᾳ . And in Aristot. Rhet. ii. 5 al.),  not accepting (  οὐ , because the fact of their absolutely refusing is mainly in view)  the deliverance (offered to them: see in the deaths of the seven brethren passim, 2 Maccabees 7. Eleazar himself says, 2Ma 6:30 , δυνάμενος ἀπολυθῆναι τοῦ θανάτου , σκληρὰς ὑποφέρω κατὰ τὸ σῶμα ἀλγηδόνας ),  that they might obtain a better resurrection (there can I think be little doubt that Chrys.’s explanation of  κρείττονος is right: κρείττονος ; … οὐ τοιαύτης , οἵας τὰ παιδία τῶν γυναικῶν . Those sons were raised by a kind of resurrection to a life which should again end in death: but these expected a glorious resurrection to endless life. Cf. 2Ma 7:9 , ὁ δὲ τοῦ κόσμου βασιλεὺς ἀποθανόντας ἡμᾶς ὑπὲρ τῶν αὐτοῦ νόμων εἰς αἰώνιον ἀναβίωσιν ζωῆς ἡμᾶς ἀναστήσει : also 2Ma 7:11; 2Ma 7:14; 2Ma 7:20; 2Ma 7:23; 2Ma 7:36 . And so Thl., Bengel, Schulz, Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, Stuart, Ebrard, Delitzsch, al. Œc. understands κρείττονος as opposed to the resurrection of the ungodly to judgment, Daniel 12:2 ; κρείττονος … ἢ οἱ λοιποὶ ἄνθρωποι · ἡ μὲν γὰρ ἀνάστασις πᾶσι κοινή , ἀλλ ʼ οὗτοι ἀναστήσονται , φησίν , εἰς ζωὴν αἰώνιον , καὶ οὗτοι εἰς κόλασιν αἰώνιον . And so Thl. as an altern. Seb. Schmidt, Hammond, Winer, Lünemann, al. strangely regard it as comparing the ἀνάστασις with the mere temporal ἀπολύτρωσις just spoken of: but if so, why not κρείττονος  ἀπολυτρώσεως ? Hence we may perhaps understand the  ἄλλοι δέ , distinguishing these even higher triumphs of faith from these former):