 7 .]  Example of NOAH. Genesis 6:8 ff.  By faith, Noah, having been warned (viz. by God, Genesis 6:13 ff. On the word, see note ch. Heb 8:5 )  concerning the things not yet seen (these words belong to χρηματισθείς , not to εὐλαβηθείς , as Erasm.(vers.) and Grotius. The latter asserts that εὐλαβεῖσθαι περί τινος occurs in Plato; but the passage appears to be Legg. xi. p. 927 C, εὐλαβούμενον περὶ τροφήν τε καὶ παιδείαν ὀρφανῶν , and it is asserted by others that εὐλαβεῖσθαι περί  τινος is not found. Still it might surely be legitimate: we have εὐλαβεῖσθαι ἀμφί τινι in Lucian, Gall. 21. But the other arrangement is more rhythmical, and more obvious),  taking forethought (see, on ch. Hebrews 5:7 , the distinction made by the Stoics, Diog. Laert. vii. 63: φοβηθήσεσθαι μὲν τὸν σοφὸν οὐδαμῶς , ἀλλ ʼ εὐλαβηθήσεσθαι · εὐλάβειαν εἶναι ἐναντίαν τῷ φόβῳ , οὖσαν εὔλογον ἔκκλισιν . Many interpret it, “fearing God,” understanding θεόν : and most, “fearing,” but the above distinction is important)  prepared (so 1 Peter 3:20 ; the LXX in Gen 6:15 have ποιεῖν )  the ark (not “  an ark:” see 1 Pet. l. c. The word  κιβωτός had become appropriated to the well-known ark, and so was used anarthrously)  for the preservation of his house (cf. Philo de Abr. § 8, vol. ii. p. 8, μόνος δὲ εἷς οἶκος , ὁ τοῦ λεχθέντος ἀνδρὸς δικαίου καὶ θεοφιλοῦς , διασώζεται ;  by means of which (to what does  ἧς refer? to σωτηρίαν , to κιβωτόν , or to πίστει ? Certainly not to the former: for thus Noah’s σωτηρία would be the inheriting of the righteousness which is by faith. Possibly, to κιβωτόν (so Chrys., Œc., Thl., Faber Stap., Calvin, Beza, Jac. Cappell., Grot., Carpzov, Cramer, Michaelis, Bisping, al.); for it was by the building of it that he condemned the world in its unbelief, and by it that in some sense, as the manifested result of his faith, he became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. But it must be confessed that this latter part of the interpretation halts considerably. And on this account as well as on account of its inadequacy to the spirit of the passage, I do not hesitate, with Primas., Thomas Aquin., Luther, Cajetan, Justiniani, Wolf, Bengel, and most of the recent Commentators, to prefer πίστει as the antecedent: ‘by which faith,’ as above on δι ʼ αὐτῆς . Hebrews 11:4 . It is true, that πίστει here is somewhat far off; but it is the burden of the chapter, and continually before the Writer’s mind, and it was by his  faith , rather than by the results of that faith that he κατέκρινεν κ . τ . λ ., and κληρ . ἐγένετο κ . τ . λ .)  he condemned (  κατέκρινεν may be either imperfect, he condemned, while building the ark, the unbelieving world around, or aor., he once for all condemned the unbelieving then, and in them, the world, which lies in unbelief. Better perhaps the latter. On the sense, Limborch says, “Et ille dicitur aliquem damnare, qui suo facto ostendit quid alterum oportuerit facere, et, quia non fecit, illum criminis commissi convincit, ac propterea juste puniri.” See a like use in reff.)  the world (reff.),  and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith (Noah is the first in Scripture who is called δίκαιος , צַדִּיק , Genesis 6:9 , as Philo, πρῶτος οὗτος δίκαιος ἐν ταῖς ἱεραῖς ἀνεῤῥήθη γραφαῖς , Congr. Erud. Grat. § 17, vol. i. p. 532. Elsewhere Philo interprets the name itself of Noah thus: ἑρμηνεύεται γὰρ Νῶε ἀνάπαυσις ἢ δίκαιος , Leg. Alleg. iii. 24, p. 102: ὃς Ἑβραίων μὲν γλώττῃ καλεῖται Νῶε , τῇ δὲ Ἑλλήνων ἀνάπαυσις ἢ δίκαιος , De Abr. 5, vol. ii. p. 5. See also Ezekiel 14:14 ; Ezekiel 14:20 , where he is named together with Daniel and Job as an example of δικαιοσύνη : and Wis 10:4 ; Wis 10:6 ; Sir 44:17 ; 2 Peter 2:5 ; where he is called κήρυξ δικαιοσύνης . And this righteousness, which is matter of history in the O. T., our Writer refers to his faith as its measure. So Calvin, “Moses refert illum fuisse justum: causam et radicem hujus justitiæ fidem fuisse, quia ille historice non refert, ex re ipsa apostolus testatur.” This  δικαιοσύνη κατὰ πίστιν seems to be altogether in St. Paul’s sense, the righteousness which is by faith, Romans 4:13 , though the expression itself is foreign to St. Paul. The κληρονόμος idea is also according to St. Paul. It should be noticed that the whole expression is used, in an Epistle in which righteousness by faith forms no part of the main subject, as one familiar and well known to the readers).