 9 .]  By faith he sojourned (  παροικεῖν in classical Greek signifies to dwell in the neighbourhood of, and is followed by a dative: so Thuc. iii. 93, φοβούμενοι μή σφισι μεγάλῃ ἰσχύϊ παροικῶσιν . Isocrates uses it in the sense of “to dwell alongside of,” with another reference, and an accus.: ἀπὸ Κνίδου μέχρι Σινώπης Ἕλληνες τὴν Ἀσίαν παροικοῦσι , p. 74. But the Hellenistic sense is, to dwell as a stranger, to sojourn only. So LXX in reff.: so Philo, Quis Rer. Div. Hær. § 54, vol. i. p. 511, τῷ φιλαρέτῳ κατοικεῖν οὐ δίδωσιν ὁ θεός , ὡς ἐν οἰκείᾳ γῇ , τῷ σώματι , ἀλλὰ παροικεῖν ὡς ἐν ἀλλοδάπῃ μόνον ἐπιτρέπει χώρᾳ . And Confus. Ling. § 17, p. 416, κατῴκησαν ὡς ἐν πατρίδι , οὐχ ὡς ἐπὶ ξένης παρῴκησαν ) in (pregnant construction, as often in St. Luke, see Acts 7:4 ; Acts 8:40 ; Acts 12:19 ; Acts 18:21 ; Luke 11:7 ; he went into the land and sojourned there)  the land (  γῆ is one of those words which very commonly drop the article, especially when in government)  of the promise (concerning which the promise, Genesis 12:7 , had been given)  as a stranger’s (as if it did not belong to him, but to another: see ref. Acts, which is strictly parallel, and cf. γῇ οὐκ ἰδία , Gen 15:13 ),  dwelling (the aor. part. is contemporary with the aor. before)  in tents (cf. Genesis 12:8 ; Genesis 13:3 ; Genesis 18:1 ff. ὅπερ τῶν ξένων ἐστί , τῶν ἄλλοτε εἰς ἄλλο μέρος μεταβαινόντων διὰ τὸ μὴ ἔχειν τι ἵδιον . Thl.)  with Isaac and Jacob (Thl., Bengel, Böhme, Kuinoel, Griesb., Lachm., al. join these words with παρῴκησεν above. But they more naturally belong to ἐν σκηναῖς κατοικήσας , which has just preceded: for otherwise we should expect ἐξεδέχοντο in Heb 11:10 )  the heirs with him of the same promise ( τῆς ἐπ . τῆς αὐτῆς , as ποιμένες ἦσαν ἐν τῇ χώρᾳ τῇ αὐτῇ , Luke 2:8 ; the only other place where this arrangement is found. What is implied is, not so much that the promise was renewed to them, as that all three waited for the performance of the same promise, and in this waiting, built themselves no permanent abode):