 3 .] The Writer now begins his series of examples of the power of faith. But instead of opening them with the example of our first parents, which he probably passes over as not sufficiently recorded in Scripture, he adduces the great and primary postulate of faith which has regard to a fact contemporaneous indeed with them, and holding this first chronological place in the series: viz. the creation of the world itself.  By faith (  πίστει is the instrumental dative, nearly = διὰ πίστεως , with which indeed it is interchanged in Heb 11:33 )  we perceive (see ref. Rom., where the verb is used in the same sense of intellectual perception, τὰ ἀόρατα of God being the νοούμενα . The world itself, and the things therein, καθορᾶται by us: but the fact of its creation by God νοεῖται , with our rational or spiritual faculties)  the ages (see note on ch. Hebrews 1:2 , where I have maintained that the expression οἱ αἰῶνες includes in it all that exists under the conditions of time and space, together with those conditions of time and space themselves, conditions which do not bind God, and did not exist independently of Him, but are themselves the work of His word. Chrys. here replaces  τοὺς αἰῶνας in his paraphrase by τὰ πάντα , the universe. Since writing the note above referred to, I have seen Delitzsch’s commentary, which strongly maintains the mere material sense of οἱ αἰῶνες , but not to me convincingly)  to have been framed (so E. V. for  κατηρτίσθαι : and we cannot perhaps do better. It is rather however,  furnished forth , ‘made to be, and to be what we find them:’ see reff. Ps.)  by the word of God (so Philo, in Del., διὰ ῥήματος τοῦ αἰτίου ὁ σύμπας κόσμος ἐδημιουργεῖτο . ῥῆμα differs from λόγος , in being the  spoken word , the command, as throughout Genesis 1:0 , whereas λόγος may be, as Del., the inward shaping of the thing willed, as well as its outward manifestation. Cf. Philo de Sacr. Abel et Cain, § 18, vol. i. p. 175, ὁ γὰρ θεὸς λέγων ἅμα ἐποίει μηδὲν μεταξὺ ἀμφοῖν τιθείς . ῥῆμα must not here be taken for the personal word: ch. Heb 1:2 is on a different matter),  so that (it seems necessary here, with almost all Commentators except Hofmann, Lünem., and Delitzsch, to keep to the ecbatic εἰς τό as against the telic. For even granted that we have on the whole a good sense given by the telic, that God’s purpose in framing the αἰῶνες was that &c. (which I own I can hardly see), yet there would be two weighty reasons against admitting it here: 1. that it would be unnaturally introduced, because it is not this  purpose of God which we apprehend by faith, but the fact which is supposed to testify to this purpose: whereas if we take the telic sense of εἰς τό , we must include the purpose itself in that which we apprehend: 2. that it does violence to γεγονέναι , which on that hypothesis ought to have been some subjective word, not, as it is now, a mere record of past fact. It would be philological labour thrown away to shew that the ecbatic sense of εἰς τό is legitimate. The directive force of εἰς may lie either in the purpose of the worker, or in the tendency of the result. Cf. esp. Luk 5:17 )  not out of things apparent hath that which is seen (i. e. the visible world)  been made (the first and chief difficulty here is in the position of μή , and the conclusion which we are thence to form as to our rendering. Most of the translations (Syr., D-lat., “  ut ex non apparentibus ,” vulg., “  ut ex invisibilibus ,” Erasmus, Luther, al.) regard it as belonging to φαινομένων , and render as if it were ἐκ τῶν μὴ φαινομένων (so Scriv.’s a,  a secunda manu ). And so likewise Chrys. ( ἐξ οὐκ ὄντων τὰ ὄντα ἐποίησεν ὁ θεός ), Thdrt. ( ἐξ ὄντων γὰρ δημιουργοῦσιν οἱ ἄνθρωποι , ὁ δὲ τῶν ὅλων θεὸς ἐκ μὴ ὄντων τὰ ὄντα παρήγαγε ), Œc., Thl., Faber Stap., Jac. Cappell., Estius, Calov., Heinrichs, Valcknaer, Tholuck, al. And, thus taking the construction, these render in two different ways: 1. take the μὴ φαινόμενα as things unseen, in contrast to the things seen; 2. as things non-existent, as contrasted with things existent. The former of these regard the assertion as meaning that God created the world out of the previously non-apparent Chaos, the “Thohu wa-Bohu” of Genesis 1:3 ; the latter as referring to the creation out of the ideas in the divine mind, in which (see this ably argued out in Delitzsch’s Biblische Psychologie, pp. 23, 24) all creation præexisted from eternity. As against both these views it is asserted positively by Lünemann, and contended by Bleek and De Wette, that such a transposition of the negative particle is altogether impossible. Delitzsch replies that Chrys. and the Greek interpreters who so transposed it, understood their own language: and argues for the admissibility of the transposition, citing such expressions as ἡγουμένων ἀνδρῶν οὐ τῶν ἀδυνατωτάτων , Thuc. i. 5, and οὺκ ἐπὶ μεγάλοις μεγάλως διεσπουδάζετο , Arrian. Alex. vii. 23. 12, and such opinions as that of Valcknaer here, who calls it “consuetam Græcis transpositionem voculæ negantis,” and Rost, § 135. 1, “If a single idea expressed by a noun is to be emphatically denied, which noun is preceded by an article or a preposition, then the particle of negation is put before the article or the preposition,” And certainly it does seem difficult to deny the existence of such cases, and to say with Bleek, that no examples have been given where a μή or οὐ belonging to a participle or adjective is separated from it by a governing preposition: the only apparently applicable instance, 2Ma 7:28 , ὅτι οὐκ ἐξ ὄντων ἐποίησεν αὐτὰ ὁ θεός , being struck away by the Vatican reading being ἐξ οὐκ ὄντων . Still, if we grant the legitimacy of the inversion in cases of emphatic denial, it will remain for us to consider, whether such inversion is to be assumed here. And, I own, it seems to me quite unnecessary. The ultimate sense is in the main the same in either case; but the straightforward construction of the words gives by far the more apposite expressed meaning. In all that we see with our sense, of re-creation and reproduction, τὸ βλεπόμενον ἐκ φαινομένου γέγονεν . The seed becomes the plant: the grub the moth. But that which is above sight, viz. faith, leads us to apprehend, that this has not been so in the first instance: that the visible world has not been made out of apparent materials. On this acceptation of the construction, we need not interpret φαινόμενα otherwise than according to its plain meaning, things apparent: nor does the text stand committed to the before-mentioned præ-existence, or to any Philonian scheme of creation: being simply a negative proposition).