 8 .] ABRAHAM’S  example .  By faith Abraham, being called (viz. by God, Genesis 12:1 ff. With the art. (see var. read.),  ὁ καλούμενος Ἀβραάμ can hardly mean any thing but ‘he that was called, named, Abraham.’ And the sense thus would be very good, whatever Bleek and Delitzsch have said against it, when we take into account the meaning of the name Abraham, the father of nations. That this change of name did not take place till 25 years after his removal from Haran, is no objection, but is just what would be the point raised: ‘By faith, he who was (afterwards) called Abraham, father of nations’ &c. Lünemann’s rendering of ὁ καλούμενος , “he that was called by God,” hardly requires refutation. But on the whole, I adhere to the rec. text. The manuscript evidence is strong for the other, but not overwhelming; and the comparison of πίστει χρηματισθεὶς Νῶε with πίστει καλούμενος Ἀβραάμ gives great support to the rec. In fairness it should be said, as Del. points out, that ( ὁ ) καλούμενος , appended to names, is exceedingly common with St. Luke (Luke 1:36 ; Luke 6:15 ; Luke 7:11 ; Luke 8:2 ; Luke 10:39 , &c.), and, as he also remarks, it may appear that Clem.-rom. read and understood this “he that was called Abraham,” for he says, Ἀβραὰμ ὁ φίλος προσαγορευθεὶς πιστὸς εὑρέθη ἐν τῷ αὐτὸν ὑπήκοον γενέσθαι τοῖς ῥήμασι τοῦ θεοῦ . Of the Greek Commentators, Thdrt. says, τὸ ὁ καλούμενος Ἀβραάμ , διὰ τὴν τοῦ ὀνόματος ἐναλλαγὴν εἴρηκεν : Œc., θεοῦ καλοῦντος ὑπήκουσε , πιστεύσας ὅτι ἐπ ʼ ἀγαθῷ καλεῖ : Thl., πίστει ὑπήκουσεν Ἀβραάμ , κελευόμενος ἀφεῖναι τὴν πατρίδα )  obeyed to go out (the infin. is epexegetic, explaining  wherein he obeyed. Cf. Revelation 16:9 ; Colossians 1:22 , &c. Winer, § 44. 1)  to a (or, ‘the,’ even without τόν , after a preposition)  place which he was hereafter to receive for an inheritance (not that he was conscious even of this promise when he went out, for it was made to him afterwards in Canaan, see Gen 12:7 ),  and went out, not knowing where (whither)  he was (is)  going (coming. The indic.  ἔρχεται is perfectly normal, a matter of fact, not one of possibility only, being in question. Cf. εἶδον ποῦ μένει , ref. John: ἐπίστασθε … πῶς μεθ ʼ ὑμῶν ἐγενόμην , Acts 20:18 . But οὐκ ἔχει ποῦ τὴν κεφαλὴν κλίνῃ , Matthew 8:20 , when the matter is one of mere possibility. See Winer, § 41. 4).