 11 .]  Example of SARAH,  whose faith worked with that of Abraham to produce Isaac .  By faith Sarah herself also (the  καὶ αὐτή has been very variously interpreted. “Even S. who before was barren,” says Schlichting: and to this view perhaps the gloss στεῖρα , or ἡ στεῖρα , or στεῖρα οὖσα , is owing (see digest): Chrys. says, ἐντρεπτικῶς ἐνταῦθα ἤρξατο , εἴ γε γυναικὸς ὀλιγοψυχότεροι φανεῖεν : and similarly Thl., Œc., al.: Bleek says, “even S. who was once incredulous:” and so De W., Winer, Lünem. But I believe Delitzsch is perfectly right in rejecting all these and falling back on St. Luke’s usage of αὐτός and καὶ αὐτός , which is very frequent, as Winer remarks, § 22. 4, Remark: see Luke 20:42 , καὶ αὐτός Δαυείδ : Luke 24:15 , καὶ αὐτὸς Ἰησοῦς : Acts 8:13 , ὁ δὲ Σίμων καὶ αὐτός : and especially καὶ αὐτὸς ἦν Ἰησοῦς ὡσεὶ ἐτῶν τριάκοντα ἀρχόμενος , Luke 3:23 ; from which it appears that the words merely indicate transition from one personal subject to another, the new subject being thus thrown out into prominence)  received power for (  δύναμις εἰς is an expression of St. Luke’s, Luke 5:17 , δύναμις κυρίου ἦν εἰς τὸ ἰᾶσθαι αὐτόν : the preposition indicating the direction in which the power is exercised)  the deposition of seed (power, to fructify seed deposed. So Œc., ἐνεδυναμώθη εἰς τὸ ὑποδέξασθαι παιδοποιὸν σπέρμα . I am satisfied that this and no other is the meaning, from the fact that the expression is one so constantly used in this sense, and that the Greek reader would be sure thus to take it. No Greek Father, no ancient version, dreamt of any other meaning. So Chrys., εἰς τὸ κατασχεῖν τὸ σπέρμα , εἰς ὑποδοχὴν δύναμιν ἔλαβεν . Thl., τουτέστιν , ἐνεδυναμώθη εἰς τὸ ὑποδέξασθαι καὶ κρατῆσαι τὸ καταβληθὲν εἰς αὐτὴν σπέρμα τοῦ Ἀβραάμ (giving another alt., dependent on the idea τὴν γυναῖκα οἶόν τι σπέρμα ἀφ ʼ ἑαυτῆς συνεισάγειν and interpreting the καταβολή of herself). Thdrt., ἀπηγόρευσε γὰρ τὸν τόκον οὐ μόνον τὸ γῆρας , ἀλλὰ καὶ τῆς μήτρας ἡ πήρωσις . With regard to the phrase, see numerous examples in Wetst. and Bleek. Galen has, among many other passages, τὸ τοῦ ἄῤῥενος σπέρμα τὸ καταβαλλόμενον εἰς τὰς μήτρας τοῦ θήλεως . But this is objected to by several modern Commentators, Böhme, Stier, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., who take καταβολή as in καταβολὴ κόσμου , and σπέρμα the seed which should descend from her, her posterity, as in Gen 12:7 al. freq., and in Heb 11:18 and ch. Heb 2:16 of our Epistle. Of this meaning instances are not wanting, but all of them derive that sense from the other, and it is hardly possible, though such expressions as καταβολὴ Ῥωμύλου (Plut. de Fort. Rom. p. 320), γενῶν ἀρχαὶ καὶ καταβολαί (Plut. Vita Marc. Anton. p. 932) may occur, where the context makes it plain what is meant, that such an one as καταβολὴ σπέρματος should occur, so calculated to mislead, if both words had been intended in an unusual and metaphorical sense),  and that (see Hartung, Partikellehre i. 145. His most apposite instances are in Latin: e. g. Plaut. Rud. i. 2. 33, “dabitur opera, atque in negotio:” Terent. Andr. ii. 1. 37, “ego vero, ac lubens”)  beyond (in inconsistency with, contrary to the law of)  the time of age (proper for the καταβολὴ σπέρματος . So Abraham and Sarah are called ὑπερήλικες in Philo de Abr. § 22, vol. ii. p. 17: ἤδη γὰρ ὑπερήλικες γεγονότες διὰ μακρὸν γῆρας ἀπέγνωσαν παιδὸς σποράν . And Plato, Theæt. p. 149 C, has τοῖς δι ʼ ἡλικίαν ἀτόκοις προσέταξε ),  seeing that she esteemed Him faithful who had promised (see ref.).