 40 .]  God (Clem.-alex. Strom. iv. § 16, p. 609 P., cites this with τοῦ θεοῦ joined to τὴν ἐπαγγελίαν , and so does the liturgy of Chrysostom in some manuscripts. In that case προβλεψαμένου would be in apposition with θεοῦ . But such a connexion is not likely)  having provided (foreseen from far (ref.): προορᾶν , προϊδεῖν , προϊδέσθαι are more usual words)  concerning us (  περὶ ἡμῶν has the emphasis, as contrasted with οὗτοι πάντες , us, viz. the Writer and his readers, as belonging to the N. T. church)  something better (what is this  κρεῖττόν τι ? The Fathers generally interpret it of the ultimate state of glorious perfection, which shall only then come in, when all the number of the elect shall be accomplished. So Chrys., ἐννοήσατε .… τί ἐστι , καὶ ὅσον ἐστὶ τὸν Ἀβραὰμ καθῆσθαι , καὶ τὸν ἀπόστολον Παῦλον , περιμένοντας πότε σὺ τελειωθῇς , ἵνα δυνηθῶσι τότε λαβεῖν τὸν μισθόν . On this view, as Delitzsch says, the κρεῖττόν τι would consist in this, that the history of mankind has not been cut short as it would have been if the ancients had received the promise in this sense, but has been continued for us to partake of our present privileges under the N. T. But, he continues, this eschatological narrow acceptation of the promise, has against it not only what is said of Abraham in ch. Hebrews 6:15 , viz. ἐπέτυχεν τῆς ἐπαγγελίας , but also the whole spirit of the Epistle, which regards final salvation as brought in with the propitiation of Christ, and τὸ ἔσχατον τῶν ἡμερῶν as begun with His first Advent. The Writer cannot be ignoring this all-inclusive beginning of the N. T. fulfilment of the promises, in attributing to us κρεῖττόν τι than the O. T. believers had. And consequently we must understand by the expression, something better than they had, viz. the enjoyment, here, of the fulfilment of the promise, which they never had here, and only have there since Christ’s descent into Hades and ascension into heaven. It is that κρεῖττόν τι for which the Lord felicitates his disciples, Matthew 13:17 , the revelation of the Son of God, ch. Hebrews 1:1 , the σωτηρία of ch. Heb 2:3 ),  that they should not apart from us be made perfect (the design of God in this provision of something better for us was, that they, the O. T. saints, should not be perfected without us, i. e. independently of the N. T. salvation of which we are partakers, cut off from Christ’s universal Church of which we are members. But we read, ch. Hebrews 12:23 , of them as τετελειωμένοι now. And therefore the Writer implies, as indeed ch. Heb 10:14 seems to testify, that the Advent and work of Christ has changed the estate of the O. T. fathers and saints into greater and perfect bliss; an inference which is forced on us by many other places in Scripture. So that their perfection was dependent on our perfection: their and our perfection was all brought in at the same time, when Christ μιᾷ προσφορᾷ ἐτελείωσεν εἰς τὸ διηνεκὲς τοὺς ἁγιαζομένους . So that the result with regard to them is, that their spirits, from the time when Christ descended into Hades and ascended up into heaven, enjoy heavenly blessedness, and are waiting, with all who have followed their glorified High Priest within the veil, for the resurrection of their bodies, the Regeneration, the renovation of all things. This thought naturally leads on to the opening verses of the next chapter).