 27 .]  By faith, he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king (  when? this is much disputed. Was it when he fled after the murder of the Egyptian? or when he left Egypt with the children of Israel, of which Jos. says, Antt. ii. 11. 1, κατέλιπον τὴν Αἴγυπτον μηνὶ Ξανθικῷ ? Against the latter, which is the opinion of Lyra, Calvin, Schlichting, Grot., Calov., Heinr., Böhme, Kuin., Bleek, Ebrard, Bisping, al., it seems a decisive objection, that the Exodus was made not in defiance of the king of Egypt, but with his consent, and at his urgent instance. It is also a lesser objection to it that thus the chronological order is broken, the next particular, the institution of the Passover, having taken place previously to the Exodus. A third objection is, and one not easily got over, that the singular κατέλιπεν cannot well be referred to an event in Israel’s history, but must refer to the personal history of Moses. Otherwise we should expect διέβη below in Hebrews 11:29 . Regard being had to these objections, I cannot but think that to understand κατέλιπεν of the Exodus is altogether impossible. It must then refer to the former flight. And this is the view of all the ancient expositors, Greek and Latin: and among the moderns, of Zeger, Jac. Cappell., Heinsius, Calmet, Bengel, Michaelis, Schulz, De Wette, Stengel, Thol., Lünem., Delitzsch, al. But we are here met by a startling difficulty. In Exo 2:14 we read that on finding that his slaying of the Egyptian was known, ἐφοβήθη Μωυσῆς : here we read, μὴ φοβηθεὶς τὸν θυμὸν τοῦ βασιλέως . Were it not for this difficulty, we may safely say that the other interpretation would never have been thought of; but standing as it does, it is no wonder that it has driven Commentators to another resource. Still, if owing to other circumstances in the text it is, as we have seen it to be, necessary to refer it to that first leaving of Egypt, we have no right to set those aside on account of this difficulty: rather should we say that there must be some solution of it, however difficult to find. Those which have been given are certainly not satisfactory. The old ones (Chrys., Thl., Œc., al.) go mainly on this, that he so left Egypt, as intending to return to it, but avoiding the thrusting of himself into danger at the moment. Thdrt. seems to regard μὴ φοβηθείς as a pluperfect aor. part., “when he had set at nought” the king’s anger: τὴν μὲν Αἴγυπτον φοβηθεὶς κατέλιπε , θαρσαλέως δὲ τὸν Αἰγύπτιον κατηκόντισε , τὴν φυγὴν τοίνυν ἀντὶ τῆς αἰτίας τέθεικε τῆς φυγῆς . Of the moderns, Bengel says, “  Timuit , et fugit:  non timuit neque respexit, quam in partem rex vel cædem Ægyptii vel fugam Mosis esset accepturus.” De Wette supposes that the Writer did not remember the expression in Exodus: Lünem. makes a distinction between objective and subjective fear, which, in that shape, seems too refined for use here: Delitzsch, while objecting to Lün., yet takes one form of his view, that the  flight was occasioned by fear, but the  leaving Egypt was done without regard to what might be the anger of the king and court thereupon. In attempting to give a solution of it, I may confess that I see as yet no  satisfactory one. It may be that the truth is, that though the fact of his flight was the effect of his fear, the same flight itself, the dereliction of Egypt and reserving himself for further action, shewed that that fear did not  possess nor bear him away. But on any solution, the difficulty remains. Had it stood φοβηθείς , instead of μὴ φοβηθείς , the whole would have been plain enough: ‘when he feared the anger of the king’):  for he endured as seeing the invisible One (or, ‘the King who is invisible:’ cf. 1 Timothy 1:17 . Some, as Bengel, Schulz, al., join  τὸν ἀόρατον , as an object, with  ἐκαρτέρησε , which is against usage, καρτερέω being never found with a personal object: see reff. and other examples in Bl. So also the vulg., “invisibilem tanquam videns sustinuit.” Ebrard calls it a pregnant construction for τὸν ἀόρατον τιμῶν ἐκαρτέρησε : but this is little better and quite unnecessary. The simple and usual construction is the right one, and that adopted by the Greek expositors: so Thl., ὡσπερεὶ γὰρ ὁρῶν τὸν θεὸν συνόντα αὐτῷ , οὕτως ἐκαρτέρει πάντα . Jos. says of Moses similarly, Antt. iii. 11. 1, ἄπορός τε ὢν τροφῆς ἀπηλλάττετο τῇ καρτερίᾳ καταφρονῶν ).