 28 .]  By faith he hath celebrated (  ποιεῖν τὸ πάσχα is ever used simply for to keep the passover, and though Bl. and Lünem. see here a mingling of the ideas of celebrating and instituting, it seems better to keep to universal usage. The perf. is used, on account of the Passover being a still enduring feast)  the Passover (not as some interpret πίστει , in faith of the Redeemer to come, which point does not enter into consideration here: but by that faith which was to him the evidence of things unseen, viz. of the promise that the Destroyer should  pass over and not hurt them. So Calvin well, “Qui fide celebratum fuisse pascha interpretantur, quia Moses in Christum respexerit, verum quidem dicunt: sed apostolus simpliciter hic fidei meminit, quatenus in solo Dei verbo acquiescit, ubi res ipsa non apparet: ideo intempestivum est subtilius philosophari”)  and the affusion of the blood (viz. of the blood of the paschal lamb on the lintel and door-posts: πρόσχυσιν αἵματος ἐκάλεσε τὴν κατὰ τῶν φλιῶν τῶν θυρῶν χρίσιν , Œc. The word  προσχέειν is the common rendering by the LXX of the Heb. זָרַק , to sprinkle, and is ordinarily used of those cases where the blood was sprinkled round the altar, e. g. Leviticus 1:5 ; Lev 16:32 al. fr. So that the word applies well to this ordinance, where the blood was sprinkled by means of a bunch of hyssop),  that he who destroyed the firstborn might not touch them (the  ἵνα μή belongs to both the preceding clauses, not to the latter only, as Del., for though it is true that it was the sprinkling of the blood only which caused the destroyer to pass over, yet this sprinkling itself was only a subordinate part of ποιεῖν τὸ πάσχα .
	The  ὀλεθρεύων τὰ πρ ., the destroying angel, see reff. and cf. Sir 48:21 , is the הַמַּשְׁחִית of Exodus 12:23 , the πληγὴ τοῦ ἐκτριβῆναι of Exodus 12:13 ; understood by Asaph, Psalms 78:49 , of evil angels. The verb ὀλεθρεύειν is Alexandrine, and with its compound  ἐξ ολ - frequently found in the LXX. The neuter πρωτότοκα includes all of both sexes of man and beast: so Exodus 12:12 , πᾶν πρωτότοκον … ἀπὸ ἀνθρώπου ἕως κτήνους : and in ref. Ps. It is hardly necessary to observe, that the connexion of the words is as above, and not ἵνα μὴ ὁ ὀλε θρεύων θίγῃ τὰ πρωτότοκα αὐτῶν . The common construction of θιγγάνω is with the partitive genitive: it is (reff.) of rare use in the Greek Scriptures.
	 αὐτῶν , of a subject not before expressed, is to be understood out of the context as meaning the Israelites, who sprinkled the blood. It prepares the way for the change into the plur. at the next verse).