 23. ] Meyer remarks, that all three points of Judaistic comparison, of so little real consequence in the matter, were dismissed with the short and contemptuous κἀγώ , ‘  that am I too .’ But that is not enough, now that we are come to the  great point ot comparison; the consciousness of his real standing, and their nullity as ministers of Christ requires the ὑπὲρ ἐγώ , and the holy earnestness of this consciousness pours itself forth as a stream over the adversaries, so as to overwhelm their conceited aspirations to apostolic dignity.
	 παραφρ  .   λ .] stronger than ἐν ἀφρος . λέγω :  I say it as a madman . Hardly, as Meyer, spoken from a consciousness of the verdict παραφρονεῖ which the opponents would pronounce on this ὑπὲρ ἐγώ , but rather, as De W., from a deep sense of his own unworthiness, and conscious how utterly untrue was ὑπὲρ  ἐγώ , in any boasting sense. He therefore repudiates it even more strongly than the τολμῶ κἀγώ .
	 ὑπὲρ ἐγώ must not be misunderstood. He  concedes to them their being διάκ . χρ ., and assumes ( παραφρονῶν ) for himself,  something more , if more abundant labours and sufferings are to be any criterion of the matter. That this is the sense is obvious from the comparison being in the  amount of labours and sufferings, and not (as Meyer), that he denies to them the διάκ . χρ . and merely puts it hypothetically. ‘Well, then, if  they are to be considered διάκ . χρ .,  I must be  something more .’ If so, the comparison would be not in the  degree of ministerial self-sacrifice, but in the  credentials of the ministry itself. Both are now assumed to be ministers: but if so, Paul is a minister in a much higher degree, more faithful, more self-denying, richer in gifts and divine tokens, than they. The preposition is used adverbially, see reff.
	 ἐν κόποις περισ .]  By (the ἐν is instrumental [  in (the matter of) or,  by (virtue of)]: the direct dative is adopted 2 Corinthians 11:26 : these facts  are proofs of the  ὑπὲρ ἐγώ , not as Estius, al.,  parallel with it , which would only apply to the comparatives and not to ἐν θανάτοις πολλάκις )  labours (occurring)  more abundantly (the adverbs belong to the substantives in each case and are used adjectively; so τὴν ἐμὴν ἀναστροφήν ποτε , Galatians 1:13 ; τῆς ἐμῆς παρουσίας πάλιν , Php 1:26 ),  by prisons (imprisonments)  more abundantly (but  one such is mentioned in the Acts (Acts 16:23 ff.) previous to the writing of this Epistle.
	Clement, in the celebrated passage of his 1st Epistle to the Corinthians (c. v. p. 220) on the labours of Paul, describes him as ἑπτάκις δεσμὰ φορέσας . This whole catalogue should shew the chronologists of the Apostle’s life and epistles how exceedingly unsafe it is to build  only on the history in the Acts for a complete account of his journeys and voyages),  by stripes more exceedingly (particularized below),  by deaths often (see reff. and ch. 2 Corinthians 4:10 . Such was the danger escaped at Damascus, Acts 9:23 , at Antioch in Pisidia, Acts 13:50 , at Iconium, Acts 14:5-6 , at Lystra, ib. 19, at Philippi, 16, at Thessalonica, Acts 17:5 f., at Berœa, ib. 13, and doubtless many others of which we know nothing. See below).