 28. ] He passes from particulars, omitting others which might have been specified, to the weight of apostolic care and sympathy which was on him.  Not to mention those (afflictions)  which are besides (these) (the Vulg, E. V., Beza, Estius, Bengel, understand παρεκτός as = ἔξωθεν , ‘  the things that are without ,’ a meaning which it never has, always implying  exception , see reff.
	Chrys.,  al, , join χωρ . τ . παρεκτ . with the foregoing, and put a period after παρεκτ ., interpreting it rightly, πλείονα τὰ παραλειφθέντα τῶν ἀπαριθμηθέντων , Hom. xxv. p. 613: but this seems to break the connexion too abruptly, besides giving a strange and unlikely termination to the long sentence preceding),  my care ( ἐπίστ . may be either ‘delay,’ ‘hindrance,’ as Soph. Antig. 225, πολλὰς γὰρ εἶχον φροντίδος ἐπιστάσεις , and Xen. Anab. ii. 4. 26, ὅσον δ ʼ ἂν χρόνον τὸ ἡγούμενον τοῦ στρατεύματος ἐπιστήσειε , τοσοῦτον ἦν ἀνάγκη χρόνον δι ʼ ὅλου τοῦ στρατεύματος γίγνεσθαι τὴν ἐπίστασιν , or, as very frequently in Polybius, see Schweigh., Lex. Polyb., ‘care,’ ‘attention,’ ‘matter of earnest thought:’ e.g. τὴν ὑπὲρ τῶν ὅλων ἐπίστασιν κ . διάληψιν , viii. 30. 13, ‘curam summæ rei,’ οὐκ ἐκ παρέργου , ἀλλ ʼ ἐξ ἐπιστάσεως , iii. 58. 3, ἄγειν τινὰ εἰς ἐπίστασιν , ‘attentionem alicujus excitare,’ ix. 22. 17, al. The rec. reading,  ἐπισύστασις (which has perhaps been introduced from ἐπίστασις not being understood (see digest here and on ref. Acts) and then μοι has been altered to μου as easier; but substantives derived from verbs which govern a dative are sometimes followed by this case, see Winer, edn. 6, § 31. 3, and Moulton’s note), can only mean  concursus , in a hostile sense, see ref. and examples in Wetst.: and so Chrys. (see var. readd.), &c., take it here: others metaphorically, as Beza, ‘agmen illud in me quotidie consurgens, i.e. sollicitudo de omnibus ecclesiis:’ somewhat similarly De W., ‘that which sets upon me, importunes me, daily:’ and so E.V. Stanley, with Est. al., renders it, ‘the concourse of people to see me:’ but this is doubtful, as departing from the hostile sense. In Beza’s sense, there is something Pauline in the rec., “the daily outbreak against me,” and the reading cannot be considered certain)  day by day , (viz.)  my anxiety for all the churches (the construction is an anacoluthon: not, as Meyer, ἐπίστ . the subject and μέριμνα the predicate, which would be a very flat sentence, ‘  my daily care is, anxiety &c., ’ As it stands, ἡ ἐπίστ . is general, and ἡ μέριμν . particularizes it. Nothing need be supplied. ἡ ἐπίστ . occurs to the Apostle’s mind, and is uttered, in the nominative, the construction being disregarded).