 4, 5. ] The thought here seems to be this: ‘If these new teachers had brought with them a  new Gospel , superseding that which I preached, they might have some claim to your regard. But, since there is  but one gospel, that which I preached to you, and which they pretend to preach also, I submit that  in that one no claim to regard is prior to mine.’ Observe, that  the whole hypothesis is ironical : it is fixed and clear that  there can be no such new gospel : therefore the inference is the stronger.  For (the whole sentence is steeped in irony: ‘the serpent deceived Eve by  subtlety : I fear for you, but not because the new teachers use such subtlety if they did, if the temptation were really formidable, there would be some excuse.’ All this lies in the γάρ )  if indeed ( εἰ μέν introduces a  reality , and is full here of deep irony. Cf. Il. α . 135, ἀλλ ʼ εἰ μὲν δώσουσι γέρας μεγάθυμοι Ἀχαιοί : ‘if the Achæans shall really give me another gift;’ and μ . 138 142, εἰ μὲν δὴ Ἀντιμάχοιο δαΐφρονος υἱέες ἐστὸν … νῦν μὲν δὴ τοῦ πατρὸς ἀεικέα τίσετε λώβην …, ‘if ye really are, &c., … ye verily will’.… See Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 414)  he that cometh (viz. the false teachers generically thus designated: but here too perhaps there is irony: ὁ ἐρχόμενος was a ῥῆμα σεμνόν )  is preaching (the indicative pres. carries on the ironical assumption, so λαμβ . below)  another Jesus whom we preached not, or ye are receiving a different Spirit ( ἄλλος , distinctive of individuality, ἕτερος of kind),  which ye received not (from us),  or another gospel which ye accepted not ( ἐλάβ ., ἐδέξ ., ‘verba diversa, rei apta. Non concurrit voluntas hominis in accipiendo Spiritu, ut in recipiendo evangelio.’ Bengel. But singularly enough, in English, usage has attached the  voluntary act to the verb ‘  accept ’)  ye with reason bear with him (irony again: for they not only bore with, but preferred them to their father in the faith. The sense is: “there seems to be some excuse in that case, but even in that, really there is none, for your tolerating him.” On the rec., Bengel remarks: ‘Ponit conditionem, ex parte rei, impossibilem: ideo dicit in imperfecto,  toleraretis : sed pro conatu pseudapostolorum, non modo possibilem, sed plane præsentem: ideo dicit in præsenti,  prædicat .’ Similarly Meyer. See Winer, edn. 6, § 42. 2. That the rendering above given is right, seems to me beyond question. It is the only one which reaches the depth of the exquisite irony of the sentence, at the same time that it satisfies all grammatical requirements.