 26. ] The construction is resumed from 2 Corinthians 11:23 , but now with the instrumental dative without the preposition.
	 By journeys frequently, by perils of rivers (the genitives denote the  material of the perils; rivers and robbers being the things and persons actually attacking. Winer, edn. 6, § 30. 2 [ α ], renders it  perils on rivers , justifying it by κ . ἐν πόλει : but in my view  a distinction is pointed out by the variety of construction. Wetst. quotes κινδ . θαλασσῶν from Heliod. ii. 4. The ‘perils of rivers’ might arise from crossing or fording, or from floods. The crossing of the rocky and irregular torrents in Alpine districts is to this day attended with danger, which must have been much more frequent when bridges were comparatively rare. And this is the case with a road, among others, frequently traversed by Paul, that between Jerusalem and Antioch, crossed as it is by the torrents from the sides of Lebanon. Maundrell says that the traveller Spon lost his life in one of those torrents: see Conybeare and Howson, edn. 2, vol. i. p. 502, note: and Stanley in loc.),  by perils of robbers (see note on Act 13:14 ),  by perils from my kindred (the Jewish nation, ἐκ ,  arising from : they not being always the direct agents, but, as in many cases in the Acts, setting on others or plotting secretly: or γένους , and ἐθν . below, imports generically the  source , or quarter whence the danger arose),  by perils from the Gentiles (not merely “  from Gentiles ,” as Stanley: this would be ἐξ ἐθνικῶν . The art. is omitted after the preposition, the word being thus categorized in Greek; but it must be supplied in our English idiom),  by perils in the city (in Damascus, Acts 9:23 f., Jerusalem, ib. Acts 9:29; Acts 9:29 , Ephesus 19:23 ff., and many other places),  by perils in the desert (the actual desert? or merely the solitude of journeys as contrasted with ‘the city?’ but any how, not ‘  in solitude :’ the art. must be supplied as in ἐν πόλει ),  by perils in the sea (not, as De W., a repetition from 2 Corinthians 11:25 ; there are many perils in the sea short of shipwrecks),  by perils among false brethren (  who were these ? Grot., al., suppose, ‘qui Christianos se Simulabant, ut res Christianorum perdiscerent, deinde eos proderent,’ and so apparently Chrys., &c. But Paul’s use of this compound leads us rather to persons who  bona fide wished to be thought ἀδελφοί , but  were not , scil. in heart and conduct, and were opponents of himself personally, rather than designed traitors to the Christian cause. Cf. ψευδαπόστολοι above, 2Co 11:13 );