 24, 25. ] are parenthetical, explaining some of the foregoing expressions: the construction is resumed, 2 Corinthians 11:26 .
	 At the hands of the Jews five times received I forty save one (in Deuteronomy 25:3 , it is prescribed that not more than forty stripes should be given, ‘lest thy brother should seem vile unto thee.’ For fear of exceeding this number, they kept within it. This seems a more likely account of the thirty-nine stripes than that given by Wetst., that thirteen were inflicted on the breast, and the same number on each shoulder, and the fortieth omitted, lest one part of the body should receive more than another. See the Rabbinical authorities in Wetst., and cf. Joseph. Antt. iv. 8. 21 and 23, and Stanley’s note here. He calls it τιμωρία αἰσχίστη : and Meyer remarks that Paul might well number it among the θάνατοι , for it was no rare occurrence for the criminal to die under its infliction.
	None of these scourgings are mentioned in the Acts),  thrice was I beaten with rods (scil. by the Roman magistrates, see Acts 16:22-23 , which is the only occasion mentioned in the Acts),  once was I stoned ( Act 14:19 ),  thrice I suffered shipwreck (  not one of these shipwrecks is known to us. Thus we see that perhaps three, perhaps two, voyages of Paul, but certainly one, previous to this time, must be somewhere inserted in the history of the Acts: see Prolegg. ch. 3 § 2Co 11:5 ),  a night and day have I spent (reff.)  in the deep (i.e. the sea: probably on some remnant of a wreck after one of his shipwrecks alone or with others. To understand ὁ βυθός , as Thl. ( τινὲς δέ φασιν ἔν τινι φρέατι μετὰ τὸνἐν Λύστροις κίνδυνον κατακρυφθείς ,  βύθῳ λεγομένῳ , νῦν τοῦτο λέγει ), seems to be taking it out of its connexion here. Wetst. gives from. Ælian, H. An. viii. 7, ἀθέατον νήχεσθαι ἐν βυθῷ . Still less must we think of the characteristic interpretation of Estius: “Subjunxit aliud periculum marinum longe gravius, nempe quod demersus fuerit ex naufragio in profundum maris, ubi tamen divina ope fuerit servatus incolumis noctem et diem, atque inde postea liberatus”).