 5. ] See above. ‘Seeing that there is  but one gospel, and they and I profess to preach  one Jesus and impart  one Spirit, they have no such claim: mine is superior’):  for I reckon that in no respect do I fall short of (the perf. sets forth the  past and present truth of the fact)  these overmuch Apostles .
	 τῶν ὑπερλίαν ἀποστ . has very commonly been taken to mean bona fide ‘  the greatest Apostles ,’ i.e. Peter, James, and John, or perhaps  the Twelve : but (1) this hardly seems to suit the expression ὑπερλίαν , in which I cannot help seeing, with De W., some bitterness: (2) it would be alien from the spirit of the passage, in which he institutes no comparison whatever between himself and  the other Apostles , but only between himself and  the false teachers . (3) had any such comparison been here intended, the ‘punctum comparationis’ would not have been,  personal eminence in fruits of apostolic work and sufferings , still less, seeing that the other Apostles were unlearned also, the distinction which immediately follows, between an ἰδιώτης , and one pretending to more skill, but priority of arrival and teaching in Corinth. (4) the expression  ψευ δαπόστολος 2 Corinthians 11:13 , seems to me to refer to, and give the plain sense of, this ironical designation of ὑπερλίαν ἀπόστολοι . (5) the same expression ch. 2Co 12:11 appears even more plainly than here to require this explanation. The above explanation is that of Beza, Michaelis, Schulz, Fritzsche, Billroth, Rückert, Olsh., Meyer, De Wette.
	ὑπερλίαν is not found in classic Greek: but Wetstein cites from Eustath [15] Od. α . p. 27, 35: ἔστι γάρ ποτε καὶ τῷ λίαν κατὰ τὴν τραγῳδίαν χρᾶσθαι καλῶς , καθ ʼ ὃ σημαινόμενον λέγομέν τινα ὑπερλίαν σοφόν . Meyer instances as analogous, ὑπεράγαν ( 2Ma 10:34 ), ὑπέρευ ( ὑπέρευ πεπολίτευμαι , Demosth. 228. 17), and the frequent use by Paul of compounds of ὑπέρ . It has been the practice of Protestant Commentators (e.g. Bengel, Macknight) to adduce this verse against the primacy of Peter, and of the Romanists (e.g. Corn.-a-Lapide) to evade the inference by supposing the pre-eminence to be only in gifts and preaching, not in power and jurisdiction. All this will fall to the ground with the supposed reference to the other Apostles.
	 [15] Eustathius, Bp. of Antioch, 323