 12. ]  The true reason :  But that which I do, I will also continue to do ( καὶ ποιήσω must not, as Erasm., be coupled to ποιῶ , and διὰ τοῦτο ποιῶ supplied before ἵνα , because it is for his resolution respecting the  future that the reason is especially given)  in order that I may cut off the occasion (  τήν , which would be furnished if I did not so)  of those who wish for an occasion (viz. of depreciating me by misrepresenting my motives if I took money of you). Many (Chrys., Theophyl., Calv., Grot., Billroth, al.) take this  occasion to be one of aggrandizing themselves above Paul  if all took money , assuming that the false teachers, as well as Paul,  took none : which is extremely unlikely, from the prominence which he gives to the boast of his own abstinence in this point, and seems directly opposed to 2Co 11:20 and to 1 Corinthians 9:12 .
	 ἵνα ἐν ᾧ κ . τ . λ .]  that, in the matter of which they boast, they may be found even as we . Such appears generally acknowledged to be the  rendering ; but as to the  meaning , there is great variety of opinion. (1) Many of the ancient Commentators assume that they  taught gratis , and were proud of it, and that Paul would also teach gratis, to put both on an equality and take this occasion of boasting from them. This would suit the sense of the  present verse , but seems (see above) at variance with the fact. (2) Theodoret, whom Meyer, al., follow, supposes them to have  pretended to the credit of self-denial, while really making gain, and that Paul means, that he will  reduce them from pretended to real self-denial. But this too is inconsistent with the context. Paul’s boast of disinterested teaching was peculiarly  his own , and there is nothing to shew that the false teachers ever professed or made any boast of the like. His resolution did not spring out of an actual comparison instituted by them between their own practice and what they might falsely allege to be his, but was adopted even before his coming to Corinth, arguing  a priori that it was best to cut off any possible occasion of such depreciation of him from his probable adversaries. (3) Others, Cajetan, Estius, after Aug [17] de Serm. Dom. in Monte ii. 16 (54), vol. iii. p. 1292, also Bengel, join ἵνα … ἡμεῖς with ἀφορμήν , ‘  occasion that they may be found even as we ,’ and explain ἐν ᾧ καυχ . as a parenthesis, ‘  that they may be found (  a point in which they boast )  even as we :’ i.e. ‘that in point of selfishness and covetousness, we may be both on a level.’ But this meaning would require rather εὑρεθῶμεν καθὼς καὶ αὐτοί , ‘  we may be reduced to  their level.’ (4) Olsh., adopting in the main the last interpretation, would understand ἐν ᾧ καυχῶνται of the  taking of money of which they boasted , accounting it an apostolic prerogative. But to this the last stated objection applies even more forcibly: and besides, the suppesition is wholly arbitrary. (5) De Wette, believing the second ἵνα to be parallel with the first, as in (1) and (2), understands ἐν ᾧ καυχῶνται as applying to  their boast of apostolic efficiency : ‘that they may, in their apostolic work which they vaunt with such pretension, be found even as we,’ and thinks, the transition to what follows thus made easy. But the objection to this is, that the  punctum comparationis in the rest of the chapter is  not apostolic efficiency , but rather matters κατὰ σάρκα . (6) I cannot adopt any one of the above accounts of the sentence, for the negative reasons already given, and because all of them seem to me to have missed the clue to the meaning which the chapter itself furnishes. This clue I find in 2 Corinthians 11:18 ff. The καυχῶνται is there taken up, described as being κατὰ σάρκα : the καθὼς καὶ ἡμεῖς is taken up by Ἐβραῖοί εἰσιν ; κἀγώ · &c. From this it is manifest to me, that his meaning in our present clause is, ‘  that in the matter (  s )  of which they boast they may be found even as we ;’ i.e. ‘we may be on a fair and equal footing:’ ‘that there may be no adventitious comparisons made between us arising out of misrepresentations of my course of procedure among you, but that in every matter of boasting, we may be fairly compared and judged by facts.’ And then, before the γάρ of 2Co 11:13 will naturally be supplied, ‘And this will end in their discomfiture:  for realities they have none, no weapons but misrepresentation, being  false Apostles ,’ &c.
	 [17]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430