 14 .]  but (the contrast lies between ταῦτα πάντα , which have been individually mentioned, and ἐπὶ πᾶσι τούτοις , that which must over-lie them as a whole)  over (carrying on the image ἐνδύσασθε see below. Calvin’s ‘  propter omnia hæc’ is every way wrong: ‘in addition to,’ as Eadie, al., falls short of the fitness and beauty of the passage, weakening what is really the literal sense into a metaphorical one. The E. V., ‘  above all these things ,’ looks ambiguous, but by repeating ‘  put on ,’ it seems as if our translators meant ‘  above ’ to be taken locally and literally)  all these things (put on)  love (the article gives a fine and delicate sense here, which we cannot express ἡ ἀγάπη is not merely love, but ‘the (well-known) love which becomes Christians:’ the nearest rendering would perhaps be ‘  Christian love ,’ but it expresses too much),  which thing (reff.: there is a slight causal force, ‘for it is’)  is the bond of perfectness (the idea of an upper garment, or perhaps of a girdle, as Calov. supposed, seems to have been before the Apostle’s mind. This completes and keeps together all the rest, which, without it, are but the scattered elements of completeness: πάντα ἐκεῖνά , φησιν , αὕτη συσφίγγει παροῦσα · ἀπούσης δὲ διαλύονται κ . ἐλέγχονται ὑπόκρισις ὄντα κ . οὐδέν , Thl. Wetst. cites from Simplic. in Epictet., p. 208, καλῶς οἱ Πυθαγόρειοι περισσῶς τῶν ἄλλων ἀρετῶν τὴν φιλίαν ἐτίμων , κ . σύνδεσμον αὐτὴν πασῶν τῶν ἀρετῶν ἔλεγον . The genitive after σύνδεσμος is not the genitive of apposition, as in Ephesians 4:3 , but of that which is held together by the σύνδεσμος , as in Plato, Rep. x. p. 616 c, εἶναι γὰρ τοῦτο τὸ φῶς ξύνδεσμον τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , οἷον τὰ ὑποζώματα τῶν τριήρων , οὕτω πᾶσαν ξυνέχον τὴν περιφοράν . Those who, as some of the Roman Catholic expositors (not Bisping), find here justification by works, must be very hard put to discover support for that doctrine. The whole passage proceeds upon the ground of previous justification by faith: see ch. Colossians 2:12 , and our Colossians 3:12 ,  ὡς ἐκλ . τ . θ . Some render σύνδεσμος ‘the sum total,’ or inclusive idea, ‘  Inbegriff :’ so Bengel, Usteri, De W., Olsh., al.: and it appears to bear this sense in Herodian iv. 12.11, πάντα τὸν σύνδεσμον τῶν ἐπιστολῶν , but not in the N. T.; and besides, the sense would be logically inconsistent with ἐπὶ πᾶσιν τούτοις , implying that Love does not include, but covers and supplements all the former. Still worse is the wretched adjectival rendering of τῆς τελ . as = τέλειος , ‘the perfect band,’ as Grot., Erasm.-par., Est., al.):  and (simply an additional exhortation, not an inference, ‘and so,’ as Beng.; compare Ephesians 4:3 , where peace  is the σύνδεσμος . It is exceedingly interesting to observe the same word occurring in the same trains of thought in the two Epistles, but frequently with different application. See the Prolegg. to this Epistle, § iv. 7)  let Christ’s peace (the peace which He brings about, which He left as his legacy to us (ref. John), which is emphatically and solely HIS. This peace, though its immediate and lower reference here is to mutual concord, yet must not on account of the context be limited to that lower side. Its reference is evidently wider, as βραβευέτω shews: see below. It is the whole of Christ’s Peace in all its blessed character and effects)  rule (sit umpire be enthroned as decider of every thing. Cf. Demosth. 3. 6, 7, ἐξὸν ἡμῖν κ . τὰ ἡμέτερ ʼ αὐτῶν ἀσφαλῶς ἔχειν κ . τὰ τῶν ἄλλων δίκαια βραβεύειν . ib. 1231. 19, τοῦτον τὸν τρόπον ὑμῶν ταῦτα βραβευόντων : and in the later sense of simply to  rule , Polyb. ii. 25. 3, ἅπαν τὸ γιγνόμενον ὑπὸ τῶν Γαλατῶν θυμῷ μᾶλλον ἢ λογισμῷ βραβεύεται , al., in Schweigh. Lex. Polyb., also in Jos. and Philo. It is foreing the passage, to introduce the idea of a combat and a prize, as Chrys., &c.: and philologically wrong to render, as Calv., ‘  palmam ferat ,’ explaining it ‘  superior sit omnibus carnis affectibus .’ As much beside the purpose is Grot.’s ‘dijudicet, nempe si quid est inter nos controversum:’ similarly Kypke and Hammond (‘componat omnia vestra cum aliis dissidia’): against this is ἐν ταῖς καρδίαις ὑμῶν , which makes the office of the  peace spoken of not  adjudicare , but  prævenire lites )  in your hearts, to which (with a view to which, as your blessed state of Christian perfection in God sec Isaiah 26:3 ; Isaiah 57:19 ; Eph 2:14-17 )  ye were also (the καί marks the introduction of an additional motive ‘to which, besides my exhortation, ye have this motive: that,’ &c.)  called (reff.)  in one body (as members of one body oneness of body being the sphere and element in which that peace of Christ was to be carried on and realized. This reminiscence refers to the whole context from Colossians 3:8 , in which the exhortations had been to mutual Christian graces. διὰ τί γὰρ ἄλλο ἐσμὲν ἓν σῶμα , ἢ ἵνα ὡς μέλη ὄντες ἀλλήλων ταύτην τηρῶμεν , κ . μὴ διϊστώμεθα ; Thl.):  and be thankful (to God, who called you: so the context before and after certainly demands: not ‘one to another,’ as Conyb., which though an allowable sense of εὐχάριστος , breaks the connexion here, which is as Chrys. on Col 3:16 παραινέσας εὐχαρίστους εἶναι , καὶ τὴν ὁδὸν δείκνυσι . The ἐκλήθητε was the word which introduced the exhortation all conduct inconsistent with the ‘  calling in one body ’ being in fact unthankfulness to God, who called us. Jer., Erasm.-not., Calv., al., render it ‘  amiable ,’ ‘  friendly ,’ against which the same objection lies. See Ephesians 5:4 ; and ib. Ephesians 5:19-20 : where the same class of exhortations occurs).