 12 .]  Put on therefore (as a consequence of having put on the new man, to whom these belong)  as the elect of God (see reff. and 1Th 1:4 ),  holy and beloved (it seems best to take, as Mey., ἐκλεκτοί for the subject, and ἅγ . and ἠγ . for predicates, 1) because ἐκλεκτοί is a word which must find its ground independently of us, in the absolute will of God, and therefore cannot be an adjunctive attribute of ἅγιοι ( καὶ ) ἠγαπ . and 2) because ἐκλεκτοὶ θεοῦ is used in reff. and  ἐκλεκτοὶ in several other places, as a substantive),  bowels of compassion (see reff., and Luke 1:78 . The expression is a Hebraism: and the account of it to be found in the literal use of σπλάγχνα as the seat of the sympathetic feelings: cf. Gen 43:30 ),  kindness (see on Gal 5:22 ),  lowliness (towards one another see on Eph 4:2 ),  meekness (Eph. ib.: but here it is primarily  towards one another ; not however excluding but rather implying meekness towards God as its ground),  long-suffering (ib.),  forbearing one another (see ib.)  and forgiving each other ( ἑαυτοῖς is not = ἀλλήλοις , as De W., al.: but the mutual forgiveness of the Christian body is put in marked correspondence to that great act of forgiveness which has passed upon the whole body, in Christ. ‘Forgiving yourselves,’ did it not convey to our ears a wrong idea, would be the best rendering: doing as a body for yourselves, that which God did once for you all),  if any have cause of blame (the phrase is a classical one cf. Eur. Orest. 1068, ἓν μὲν πρῶτά σοι μομφὴν ἔχω Phœn. 781; Soph. Aj. 180, and other examples in Wetst.):  as also ( καί ; besides, and more eminent than, the examples which I am exhorting you to shew of this grace)  the Lord (Christ: in Ephesians 4:32 , the forgiveness is traced to its source, ὁ θεὸς ἐν χριστῷ . Mey. compares the expression ἡ χάρις τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν )  forgave (see on Eph 4:32 )  you, so also ye (scil. χαριζόμενοι do not supply an imperative, by which the construction is unnecesarily broken. Chrys. carries this χαρίζεσθαι to an exaggerated extent, when he says that it extends not only to τὴν ψυχὴν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν θεῖναι τὸ γὰρ ‘ καθὼς ’ ταῦτα ἀπαιτεῖ καὶ οὐδὲ μέχρι θανάτου μόνον στῆναι δεῖ , ἀλλ ʼ εἰ δυνατὸν καὶ μετὰ ταῦτα ; thinking perhaps on Rom 9:3 ):