 1 .]  If then (as above asserted, ch. Colossians 2:12 ; Colossians 2:20 ; the εἰ implies no doubt of the fact, but lays it down as ground for an inference, see ch. Colossians 2:20 , and cf. Xen. Mem. i. 5. 1)  ye were raised up together with Christ (not as E. V. ‘  are risen :’ the allusion, as above, ch. Colossians 2:11-13 , is to a definite time, your baptism. And it is important to keep this in view, that we may not make the mistake so commonly made, of interpreting συνηγέρθητε in an  ethical sense, and thereby stultifying the sentence for if the participation were an ethical one, what need to exhort them to its ethical realization? The participation is an objective one, brought about by that faith which was the condition of their baptismal admission into Him. This faith the Apostle exhorts them to energize in the ethical realization of this resurrection state),  seek the things above (heavenly, spiritual things: cf. Matthew 6:33 ; Galatians 4:26 ; Php 3:20 )  where Christ is (‘se trouve,’ not merely the copula. If you are united to Him, you will be tending to Him; and He is in heaven),  seated on the right hand of God (see Ephesians 1:20 . Here, as every where, when the present state of Christ is spoken of, the Ascension is taken for granted):  care for the things above (  φρονεῖτε , wider than ζητεῖτε , extending to the whole region of their thought and desire),  not the things on the earth (cf. οἱ τὰ ἐπίγεια φρονοῦντες , Philippians 3:19 ; i.e. matters belonging to this present mortal state earthly pleasure, pelf, and pride. There is no reason, with Thl., Calv., Schrad., Huther, to suppose him still aiming at the false teachers, and meaning by τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , τὰ περὶ βρωμάτων κ . ἡμερῶν (Thl.): in this part of the Epistle he has dropped the controversial and taken the purely ethical tone).  For ye died (ch. Colossians 2:12 ; ‘  are dead ,’ though allowable, is not so good, as merely asserting a state, whereas the other recalls the fact of that state having been entered on. That being made partakers with Christ’s death, cut you loose from the τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς : see Rom 6:4-7 ),  and your life (that resurrection life (which  is “your real and true life” as Ellic., objecting to this explanation. The only real life of the Christian is his resurrection life in and with Christ. The fact is, Ellic. has mistaken my meaning in this term: see my remarks on it below), which you now have only in its first fruits, in possession indeed, but not in  full possession, see below, and cf. Rom 8:19-23 )  is hidden ( οὔπω ἐφανερώθη , 1 John 3:2 ; is laid up, to be manifested hereafter: that such is the sense, the next verse seems plainly to shew)  with Christ (who is also Himself hidden at present from us, who wait for His ἀποκάλυψις (1 Corinthians 1:7 , 2 Thessalonians 1:7 . 1 Peter 1:7 ; 1Pe 1:13 ; 1Pe 4:13 ), which shall be also ours, see Colossians 3:4 , and Rom 8:19 )  in God (with Christ who is εἰς τὸν κόλπον τοῦ Πατρός it is in Him, as in a great depth, that all things concealed are hidden, and He brings them out as seems good to Him. Notice the solemnity of the repetition of the articles: and so all through these verses).
	 When Christ shall be manifested (shall emerge from his present state of hiddenness, and be personally revealed),  who is our (no emphasis ἡμῶν applies to Christians generally see on ὑμ . below)  life (not as Eadie, ‘shall appear in the character of our life’ ( ὅτ . χρ . ἡ ζωὴ ἡμ . φανερωθῇ ): Christ IS personally Himself that life, and we possess it only by union with Him and His resurrection: see Joh 14:19 ),  then shall ye also ( καί takes out the special from the general ye, as well as, and among, other Christians: with the reading ἡ ζ . ὑμῶν , the καί would mean,’ as well as Christ’)  with Him be manifested in glory (see on the whole, the parallel 1 John 3:2 . Though the  completed life of the resurrection seems so plainly pointed out by this last verse as the sense to be given to ἡ ζωή , this has not been seen by many Commentators, who hold it to be  ethical ; hidden, inasmuch as inward and spiritual ἐν τῷ κρυπτῷ , Romans 2:29 (De W.), and ideal: or, inasmuch as it is unseen by the world (Beng., similarly Storr, Flatt, Bisping, al.). The root of the mistake has been the want of a sufficiently comprehensive view of that resurrection life of ours which is now hidden with Christ. It includes in itself both spiritual, ethical, and corporeal: and the realization of it as far as possible, here, is the sum of the Christian’s most earnest endeavours: but the life itself, in its full manifestation, is that perfection of body, soul, and spirit, in which we shall be manifested with Him at His appearing. Cf. Thdrt.: ἐκείνου γὰρ ἀναστάντος πάντες ἠγέρθημεν · ἀλλ ʼ οὐδέπω ὁρῶμεν τῶν πραγμάτων τὴν ἔκβασιν . κέκρυπται δὲ ἐν αὐτῷ τῆς ἡμετέρας ἀναστάσεως τὸ μυστήριον ).