 5 17 .]  General exhortations : and herein (5 11)  to laying aside of the vices of the old man , (12 17)  to realizing the new life in its practical details .  Put to death therefore (the  οὖν connects with the ἀπεθάνετε of Colossians 3:3 ; follow out, realize this state of death to things on earth  νεκρώσατε notice the aorist implying a definite act: cf. ἐσταύρωσαν Galatians 5:24 , θανατοῦτε Romans 8:13 , in the same reference)  your members which are on the earth (literally, as to τὰ μέλη : your feet, hands, &c.: reduce these to a state of death as regards their actions and desires below specified as regards, in other words, their denizenship of this earth. With this you have no concern they are members of Christ, partakers of His resurrection, renewed after His image. The metaphorical sense of μέλη , regarding πορν . &c., as ‘membra quibus vetus homo, i.e. ratio ac voluntas hominis depravata perinde utitur ac corpus membris.’ Beza, ‘naturam nostram quasi massam ex diversis vitiis conflatam imaginatur.’ Calv., seems unnecessary. And the understanding of φρονοῦντα with τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , as Grot., after Thdrt. ( τουτέστι τὴν ἐπὶ τὰ χείρω τοῦ φρονήματος ῥοπήν ), is certainly a mistake: cf. τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς above, Col 3:2 ),  fornication (these which follow, are the carnal functions of the earthly members. It is one instance of that form of the double accusative, where the first denotes the whole, the second a part of it, as τὸν δ ʼ ἄορι πλῆξ ʼ αὐχένα , λῦσε δὲ γυῖα , Il. λ . 240, ποῖόν σε ἔπος φύγεν ἕρκος ὀδόντων ; Od. α . 64 See Kühner, ii. p. 230),  impurity (reff.),  lustfulness (see Romans 1:26 , whence it would appear that the  absolute word need not be understood of  unnatural lust, the specifying genitive ἀτιμίας giving it there that meaning. We may understand it generally as in Plato, Phædr. p. 265 b, τὸ ἐρωτικὸν πάθος , ‘morbum libidinis,’ Beng.),  shameful desire (more general than πάθος : as Mey. remarks, π . is always ἐπιθ ., but not vice versa. The relation is the same as between πορνεία and ἀκαθαρσία ),  and covetousness (  τὴν πλ  . as Beng. ‘articulus facit ad epitasin, et totum genus vitii a genere enumeratarum modo specierum diversum complectitur.’ On  πλεονεξία , see on Ephesians 4:19 , and Trench, N. T. Synonyms, § xxiv.),  for it is (‘quippe quæ, sit’)  idolatry (the πλεονέκτης has set up self in his heart and to serve self, whether by accumulation of goods or by satiety in pleasure, is his object in life. He is therefore an idolater, in the deepest and worst, namely in the practical significance. τὸ μαμωνᾶ , κὺριον ὁ Σωτὴρ προσηγόρευσε , διδάσκων ὡς ὁ τῷ πάθει τῆς πλεονεξίας δουλεύων , ὡς θεὸν τὸν πλοῦτον τιμᾷ , Thdrt.),  on which account (on account of the πλεονεξία , which amounts to idolatry, the all-comprehending and crowning sin, which is a negation of God and brings down His especial anger)  cometh (down on earth, in present and visible examples)  the wrath of God: in which (vices. Mey.’s remark that the reading δι ʼ ὅ makes this ἐν οἷς necessarily refer to the ἐπὶ τοὺς υἱοὺς τ . ἀπειθ . which he reads after θεοῦ , does not apply if δι ʼ ὅ be interpreted as above to refer to πλεονεξία . There does not seem to occur in St. Paul any instance of ἐν , after περιπατεῖν absolute, referring to persons. Cf. 2 Thessalonians 3:11 ( περιπ . ἀτάκτως ), John 11:54 , Ephesians 2:3 , which last, if the clause ἐπ . τ . υἱ . τ . ἀπ . were inserted here, would certainly go far to decide the matter)  ye also walked once, when ye lived (before your death with Christ to the world)  in these things (the assertion is not tautological: cf. Galatians 5:25 , εἰ ζῶμεν πνεύματι , πνεύματι καὶ στοιχῶμεν . When ye were alive to these things, ye regulated your course by them, walked in them. “Vivere et ambulare inter se differunt, quemadmodum potentia et actus: vivere præcedit, ambulare sequitur.” Calv.):