 8 .]  but now (that ye are no longer  living in them: opposed to ποτὲ ὅτε above)  do ye also (as well as other believers)  put away the whole ( τὰ πάντα seems to have a backward and a forward reference ‘the whole, both those things which I have enumerated, and those which are to follow.’ The mistake of rendering ἀπόθεσθε , ‘  have put off ,’ which one would hardly look for in a Commentator, occurs in Eadie here cf. Eph 4:22 ),  anger, wrath (see on Eph 4:31 ),  malice (ib.),  evil speaking (ib.),  abusive conversation (the context makes this more probable here, than ‘  filthy conversation ’ (so E. V.; Clem. Alex., περὶ αἰσχρολογίας , Pæd. ii. 6, p. 198 P.; he however himself uses αἰσχρολογεῖν for to abuse in words, Pæd. iii. 11, p. 296 P.: Chrys., who calls it ὄχημα πορνείας ), for these four regard want of charity, of kindness in thought and word, rather than sins of uncleanness, which were before enumerated. And the occasional usage of the word itself bears this out, cf. Plato, Rep. iii. p. 395 end, κακηγοροῦντάς τε καὶ κωμῳδοῦντας ἀλλήλους κ . αἰσχρολογοῦντας : Polyb. viii. 13. 8, ἡ κατὰ τῶν φίλων αἰσχρολογία )  out of your mouth (these words most naturally belong to the two last specified sins, and must be constructed either with ἀπόθεσθε , which seems best, or with ‘proceeding,’ implied in αἰσχρο  λογίαν ),  lie not towards ( εἰς the indifferent general preposition of direction: so κατά with ψεύδομαι in a hostile sense, James 3:14 . Plato, Euthyd. p. 284 a, οὐδὲν κατά σου ψεύδεται . We have πρὸς ἐκεῖνον ψευσάμενον , Xen. Anab. i. 3. 5)  one another, having put off (the participles contain the motive for all the preceding, from ἀπόθεσθε so Thdrt. ( τοῦτον ἀπεκδύσασθε ἐν τῷ βαπτίσματι ), Calv. (  postquam exuistis ), Mey., al. Vulg. (  exuentes ), Luth., Calov., Beng., Olsh., De W., Conyb., al., understand them as contemporary with ἀπόθεσθε ,  putting off , or,  and put off . But surely this is very flat, and besides would, if it is to answer to the foregoing, contain a superfluous member, the ἐνδυσάμ . κ . τ . λ . there being no exhortation to graces in the former sentence, only dehortation from vices. Besides, as Mey. remarks, the objective description in Col 3:11 belongs to an assignment of motive, not to a hortative sentence: and the hortative figure begins Col 3:12 )  the old man (i.e. as Mey., ‘die vorchristliche Individualität;’ the nature which they had before their conversion: see on reff.)  with his deeds (habits, ways of acting: see reff., and cf. Demosth. 126. 21, ἔπραττον ὅπως ἡ πόλις ληφθήσεται , καὶ κατεσκευάζοντο τὴν πρᾶξιν ),  and having put on the new (the other was the negative ground: this is the positive. See on Ephesians 4:23 ; Eph 2:15 ),  who (the two are personal: not ‘which,’ except in its old personal sense)  is continually being renewed (notice the present participle. “The new man is not any thing ready at once and complete, but ever in a state of development (by the Holy Spirit, Tit 3:5 ), by which a  new state and nature is brought about in it, specifically different from that of the old man.” Mey.)  towards perfect knowledge (which excludes all falsehood, and indeed all the vices mentioned above)  according to the image of Him that created him (the new creation of the spirit unto fulness of knowledge and truth, the highest form of which would be the perfect knowledge of God, is regarded by the Apostle as analogous to man’s first creation. As he was then made in the image of God, so now: but it was then his naturally, now spiritually in ἐπίγνωσις . Some join  κατ  ʼ   εἰκ  . with ἀνακαιν ., some with ἐπίγνωσ . The sense will be the same; but grammatically it is far better to join it with ἀνακαιν . Thus the norm and method of the renewal is, κατ ʼ εἰκ . τ . κτίσαντος αὐτόν (the new man), i.e. God, who is ever the Creator, not as Chrys., al., Christ. To understand the whole passage as referring to a restoration of the image of God in the first creation, as Calov., Est., and De W., is to fall far short of the glorious truth. It is not to restore the old, but to create the new, that redemption has been brought about. Whatever may have been God’s image in which the first Adam was created, it is certain that the image of God, in which Christ’s Spirit re-creates us, will be as much more glorious than that, as the second man is more glorious than the first):  where (viz. in the realm or sphere of the new man)  there is not (on ἔνι see Gal 3:28 )  Greek and Jew (difference of nation; with special allusion also to the antiquation of the Abrahamic privilege as regarded his natural seed),  circumcision and uncircumcision (difference of legal ceremonial standing),  barbarian (having as yet specified by pairs, he now brings forward a few single categories, which in the new man were nonexistent as marks of distinction; see below. The proper  contrast to Βάρβαρος would have been Ἕλλην , which has been already expressed),  Scythian (the citations in Wetst. sufficiently shew, that the Σκύθαι were esteemed, as Beng., ‘barbaris barbariores.’ It is remarkable that in one of those citations, from Polyb., they are classed with the  Galatians ; εἰρήνης οὔσης παρεσπόνδησαν , Σκυθῶν ἔργον κ . Γαλατῶν ἐπιτελοῦντες ),  bond, free (he perhaps does not say ‘  bond and free ,’ because these relations actually subsisted: but the persons in them were not thus regarded in Christ no man is,  quoad a Christian , δοῦλος , nor (see also Gal 3:28 ) ἐλεύθερος ):  but CHRIST (emphatically closes the sentence)  is all (every distinctive category of humanity is done away as to worth or privilege, and all have been absorbed into and centre in this one, χριστοῦ εἶναι , yea χριστ  ὸς εἶναι His members, in vital union with Him)  and in all (equally sprinkled on, living in, working through and by every class of mankind).