 17 .]  purpose (including also the  purport , see note on 1 Corinthians 14:13 , and Ellicott’s note here)  of the prayer :  that (depends on the sense of μνείαν ποι . ἐπὶ τ . προσευχῶν , implying that a  prayer for them took place)  the God of our Lord Jesus Christ (see on Ephesians 1:3 . The appellation is here solemnly and most appropriately given, as leading on to what is about to be said in Ephesians 1:20 ff. of God’s  exaltation of Christ to be Head over all things to His Church. To His God, Christ also in the days of His Flesh prayed, πάτερ , δόξασόν σου τὸν υἱόν : and even more markedly in that last cry, θεέ μου , θεέ μου ),  the Father of glory (not merely the  auctor, fons , of glory, Grot., Olsh.: still less = πατὴρ ἔνδοξος : nor with Chrys. to be explained ὁ μεγάλα ἡμῖν δεδωκὼς ἀγαθά · ἀπὸ γὰρ τῶν ὑποκειμένων ἀεὶ αὐτὸν καλεῖ , ὡς , ὅταν λέγῃ ὁ πατὴρ τῶν οἰκτιρμῶν : nor is δόξης to be understood of the divine nature of Christ, as Thdrt.: θεὸν μὲν ὡς ἀνθρώπου , πατέρα δὲ ὡς θεοῦ , δόξαν γὰρ τὴν θείαν φύσιν ὠνόμασεν : for this would require τ . δόξης αὐτοῦ : but God is the Father, by being the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of that glory, the true and all-including glory, and  only glory , of the Godhead, which shone forth in the manhood of the only-begotten Son ( Joh 1:14 ), the true Shechinah, which His saints beheld in the face of Christ, 2Co 4:4 ; 2 Corinthians 4:6 , and into which they are changed by the Lord the Spirit, ib. 2 Corinthians 3:18 . In fact, 2Co 3:7 to 2 Corinthians 4:6 , is the key to this sublime expression),  would give (the account of the optative after ἵνα , when a present ( παύομαι ) has preceded, is very simple. It is used when the purpose is not that of the writer  as he is writing , but is described as that of himself or some one else  at another time . Thus Herod. ii. 93, καταπλώουσι ἐς θάλασσαν , κ . ἀναπλώοντες ὀπίσω τῆς αὐτῆς ἀντέχονται , …  ἵνα δὴ μὴ  ἁμάρτοιεν τῆς ὁδοῦ διὰ τὸν ῥόον . See Klotz, Devar. p. 622)  to you the Spirit (certainly it would not be right to take πνεῦμα here as solely the Holy Spirit, nor as solely the spirit of man: rather is it the complex idea, of the spirit of man indwelt by the Spirit of God, so that as such, it is His special gift, see below)  of wisdom (not, which  gives wisdom, but which possesses it as its character q. d. to which appertains wisdom)  and of revelation (i.e. that revelation which belongs to  all Christians : see 1 Corinthians 2:10 ff.: not the χαρίσματα of the early Church, as Olsh., nor could the Apostle be alluding to any thing so trivial and fleeting, see 1 Corinthians 13:12 . To those who are taught of God’s Spirit, ever more and more of His glories in Christ are revealed, see Joh 16:14-15 )  in (belongs to δῴη : as the element and sphere of the working of this gift of the Spirit)  the full knowledge (for the distinction between γνῶσις and ἐπίγνωσις , see 1Co 13:12 )  of Him (Chr., Thl., Olsh., al., strangely connect ἐν ἐπιγνώσει αὐτοῦ with the following sentence, πεφωτισμ . κ . τ . λ . The whole paralleism is against this, in which πνεῦμα σοφ . κ . ἀποκ . is [3] πεφωτ . τ . ὀφθ . τ . κ . ὑμ . and ἐν ἐπιγνώσ . αὐτοῦ is [4] εἰς τὸ εἰδέναι κ . τ . λ .; and the object being to exalt the gifts of the Spirit, ἐν ἐπ . αὐτ . would hardly come first in the sentence, and thus monopolize the emphasis. See also on a similar proposal, Ephesians 1:4 , end.
	 [3] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [4] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 αὐτοῦ (not αὑτοῦ ) refers to the Father, not to Christ, as Beza, Calv, al.; cf. αὐτοῦ four times in Ephesians 1:18-19 : Christ first becomes thus designated in Eph 1:20 ),  having the eyes of your heart enlightened (the construction is as in Soph. Electr. 479, ὕπεστί μοι θράσος ἁδυπνόων κλύουσαν ἀρτίως ὀνειράτων , Æsch. Choëph. 396, πέπαλται δ ʼ αὖτέ μοι φίλον κέαρ τόνδε κλύουσαν οἶκτον : see also Acts 26:3 , Kühner ii. p. 381: so that πεφωτισμένους belongs to ὑμῖν , and τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς is the accusative of reference. So Beza, Beng., Koppe, Meyer, Ellic.: and such is the simpler and more forcible construction. But Grot., Rück., Harl., Olsh., De W., Stier, all., take πεφ . τ . ὀφθ . together, and govern it by δῴη , to which the article before ὀφθ . is no objection (as Beng.), but the logic of the passage  is . The  enlightening as regards (or  of )  the eyes of the heart , is a  condition, subordinate to the πνεῦμα σοφ . κ . ἀποκ ., not another gift, correlative with it. Besides which, the sentence, even after all the grammatical vindications of Harl., al., δῴη ὑμῖν … πεφωτισμένους τοὺς ὀφθ . τῆς καρδίας ὑμῶν , is clumsy and unpauline in the last degree. On πεφωτισμ ., cf. Matthew 4:16 : ch. Ephesians 3:9 ( Eph 1:14 ): Harl. gives an elaborate analysis, as usual, of the meaning, and remarks well that φωτίζω has the double meaning of ‘  belehren und beleben ’ ‘  enlightening and enlivening .’ He cites from Greg. Naz.: φῶς ὡς λαμπρότης ψυχῶν κ . λόγῳ κ . βίῳ καθαιρομένων . εἰ γὰρ σκότος ἡ ἄγνοια κ . ἡ ἁμαρτία , φῶς ἂν εἴη ἡ γνῶσις κ . ὁ βίος ὁ ἔνθεος . The expression  τ  .   ὀφ  .   τῆς καρδίας is somewhat unusual. The καρδία of Scripture is, as Harl., the mittelpunkt des Lebens, the very core and centre of life, where the intelligence has its post of observation, where the stores of experience are laid up, and the thoughts have their fountain. Similarly the Homeric κραδίη , see Damm. Lex.: the Latin ‘  cor ’ cf. Cic. Tusc. i. 9, ‘aliis cor ipsum animus videtur, ex quo excordes, vecordes, concordesque dicuntur.’ Thus the ὀφθ . τῆς καρδίας would be those pointed at in Matthew 6:22-23 , that inner eye of the heart, through which light is poured in on its own purposes and motives, and it looks out on, and perceives, and judges things spiritual: the eye, as in nature, being both receptive and contemplative of the light),  that you may know (purpose of the πεφωτισμ ., not of the πνεῦμ . σοφ . κ . ἀποκ . This which is now to be described, to the end of the chapter, is  involved in the πν . σοφ . κ . ἀποκ ., not its  object : but it  is the object of the  enlightening , which will endue us with the knowledge)  what (the dispute among the Commentators, whether τίς implies  quality or  quantity , seems hardly worth entering into. The fulness of the simple meaning, ‘  what ,’ embraces all categories under which the things mentioned can be contemplated. In the passage to which both sides appeal, ch. Ephesians 3:18 , τί τὸ πλάτος κ . τ . λ . of course implies, ‘  how great is the breadth , &c.:’ but it implies this by the simple meaning ‘  what is the breadth, &c.,’ not by making τί = quantum, quantity being already involved in the substantives)  is the hope (again, it is mere trifling to enquire whether ἐλπίς is the hope (subjective) or the thing hoped for (objective), in this case. For the τίς involves in itself both these. If I know WHAT the hope is, I know both its essence and its accidents. Undoubtedly such an objective sense of ἐλπίς does occur, see on Colossians 1:5 ; but certainly the meaning here is far wider than in that passage. As well might the subjective sense of Colossians 1:23 , be alleged on that side) of (belonging to, see on ch. Eph 4:4 )  His calling (i.e. the calling wherewith He called us. All the matters mentioned, κλη ̄ σις , κληρονομία , δύναμις , are αὐτοῦ ,  His , but not all in the same sense: see below. On κλῆσις , see notes, Rom 8:28-30 ),  what the riches of the glory of His inheritance (“what a rich, sublime cumulation, setting forth in like terms the weightiness of the matters described; and not to be weakened (verwässert) by any resolution of the genitives into adjectives.” Mey. See Col 1:27 )  in (in the case of, as exemplified in; not so weak as ‘  among .’ nor merely ‘  in ,’ so as to refer to its subjective realization in them)  the saints (much dispute has arisen on the construction of  ἐν τ  .   ἁγ  . Koppe and Winer (Gram. § 19.2. b, edn. 3: not appy in edn. 6), with whom Meyer and De Wette agree, connect it with ἐστίν understood, so as to mean ‘what the richness of, &c. is among the saints.’ To mention no other objection to this awkward construction, the context and sense are decisive against it. As Stier well says, ‘Paul does not pray for their eyes to be enlightened, to see what great and rich things are already among Christians.’ No: nor is it easy to conceive how any intelligent reader of the Epistle could ever maintain such a rendering. The other construction is, to take ἐν τ . ἁγ . as belonging either to πλοῦτος , or to δόξης , or to κληρονομίας , as if it had been ὁ (or τῆς ) ἐν τοῖς ἁγ . And this is the only one allowed by the context: cf. Ephesians 1:19-20 , where εἰς ἡμᾶς , ἐν χριστῷ , form objects of reference precisely similar. Again there is manifestly a distinction between οἱ ἅγιοι here, and ἡμεῖς οἱ πιστεύοντες in the next verse: the former being the  perfected , the latter the  militant saints. And this decides for the joining ἐν τ . ἁγ . to κληρονομίας αὐτοῦ , ‘  His inheritance in , whose example and fulness, and embodying is in  the saints .’ The objection to this is supposed to be the want of the article before ἐν , which is urged by Meyer (see also Ellicott’s note here), because αὐτοῦ has intervened, thereby preventing κληρ . ἐν τ . ἁγ . being considered as one idea. But surely this is not so. If,  before αὐτοῦ  was inserted , ἡ κληρ . ἐν τ . ἁγίοις was sufficiently  one to prevent the necessity of a  specification of the genus κληρονομία that it was  the κληρ . which was ἐν τ . ἁγ . (for such is the force of the inserted article), how can this logical fact be altered by the insertion of Him,  whose κληρ . it is, who originated and bestowed it, and who is therefore necessarily  prior to the κληρονομία , not intervening between it and its example? I therefore join it to κληρ ., and so Rück., Harless, Olsh., Stier, al. This latter, as usual, combines the senses of κληρ . αὐτοῦ , including the inheritance which  God has in  His people , and that which they have in Him. His whole note is well worth attention),