 4 .]  According as ( καθώς explains and expands the foregoing shewing wherein the εὐλογία consists as regards us, and God’s working towards us. Notice, that whereas Eph 1:3 has summarily included in the work of blessing the Three Persons, the FATHER bestowing the SPIRIT in CHRIST, now the threefold cord, so to speak, is unwrapped, and the part of each divine Person separately described: cf. argument above)  He selected us (reff. I render  se lected, in preference to  e lected, as better giving the middle sense, ‘chose for himself,’ and the ἐξ , that it is a choosing  out of the world. The word (ref. Deut.) is an O. T. word, and refers to the spiritual Israel, as it did to God’s elect Israel of old. But there is no  contrast between their election and ours: it has been but one election throughout an election in Christ, and to holiness on God’s side and involving accession to God’s people (cf. πιστεύσαντες , Ephesians 1:13 , and εἴγε ἐπιμένετε  τῇ πίστει , Col 1:23 ) on ours. See Ellicott’s note on the word, and some excellent remarks in Stier, p. 62, on the divine and human sides of the doctrine of election as put forward in this Epistle)  in Him (i.e. in Christ, as the second Adam ( 1Co 15:22 ), the righteous Head of our race. In Him, in one wide sense, were all mankind elected, inasmuch as He took their flesh and blood, and redeemed them, and represents them before the Father: but in the proper and final sense, this can be said only of His faithful ones, His Church, who are incorporated in Him by the Spirit. But in any sense, all God’s election is  in HIM only)  before the foundation of the world ( πρὸ κατ . κ . only here in St. Paul: we have ἀπὸ κατ . κ . in Hebrews 4:3 ; his expressions elsewhere are πρὸ τῶν αἰώνων , 1 Corinthians 2:7 , ἀπὸ τ . αἰ ., Ephesians 3:9 . Colossians 1:26 , πρὸ χρόνων αἰωνίων , 2 Timothy 1:9 , χρόνοις αἰωνίοις , Romans 16:25 , ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , 2 Thessalonians 2:13 .
	Stier remarks on the necessary connexion of the true doctrines of creation and redemption: how utterly irreconcilable pantheism is with this, God’s election before laying the foundation of the world, of His people in His Son),  that we should be (infinitive of the purpose, see Winer, edn. 3, p. 267, § 45. 3. (In edn. 6, the treatment of the inf. of the purpose without the art. τοῦ , seems to have been inadvertently omitted.) The Apostle seems to have Deuteronomy 7:6 ; Deuteronomy 14:2 , before his mind; in both which places the same construction occurs)  holy and blameless (the positive and negative sides of the Christian  character ἅγιοι , of the general positive category, ἄμωμοι , of the non-existence of any exception to it. So Plut. Pericl., p. 173 (Mey.), βίος καθαρὸς κ . ἀμίαντος . This holiness and unblamableness must not be understood of that justification by faith by which the sinner stands accepted before God: it is distinctly put forth here (see also ch. Eph 5:27 ) as an ultimate  result as regards us, and refers to that sanctification which follows on justification by faith, and which is the will of God respecting us, 1 Thessalonians 4:7 . See Stier’s remarks against Harless, p. 71)  before Him (i.e. in the deepest verity of our being throughly penetrated by the Spirit of holiness, bearing His searching eye, ch. Ephesians 5:27 : but at the same time implying an especial nearness to His presence and dearness to Him and bearing a foretaste of the time when the elect shall be ἐνώπιον τοῦ θρόνου τοῦ θεοῦ , Revelation 7:15 . Cf. Colossians 1:22 , note)  in love . There is considerable dispute as to the position and reference of these words. Three different ways are taken. (1) Œcum., &c., join them with ἐξελέξατο . I do not see, with most Commentators, the extreme improbability of the qualifying clause following the verb after so long an interval, when we take into account the studied solemnity of the passage, and remember that ἐν χριστῷ in the last verse was separated nearly as far from its verb εὐλογήσας . My objection to this view is of a deeper kind: see below. (2) The Syr., Chrys., Thdrt., Thl., Bengel, Lachm., Harless, Olsh., Mey., De W., Stier, Ellic., all., join them with προορίσας in the following verse. To this, in spite of all that has been so well said in its behalf, there is an objection which seems to me insuperable. It is, that in the whole construction of this long sentence, the verbs and participles, as natural in a solemn emphatic enumeration of God’s  dealings with His people,  precede their qualifying clauses: e.g. εὐλογήσας Ephesians 1:3 , ἐξελέξατο Ephesians 1:4 , ἐχαρίτωσεν Ephesians 1:6 , ἐπερίσσευσεν Ephesians 1:8 , γνωρίσας Ephesians 1:9 , προέθετο ib., ἀνακεφαλαιώσασθαι Ephesians 1:10 . In no one case, except the necessary one of a  relative qualification ( ἧς Ephesians 1:6 , and again Eph 1:8 ), does the verb  follow its qualifying clause: and for this reason, that the verbs themselves are emphatic, and not the conditions under which they subsist. “Blessed be God who DID all this, &c.” He may have fore-ordained, and did fore-ordain,  in love : and this is implied in what follows, from κατὰ τ . εὐδ . to ἠγαπημένῳ : but the point  brought out , as that for which we are to bless Him, is not that  in love He fore-ordained us, but the  fact of  that fore-ordination itself : not His attribute, but His act. It is evidently no answer to this, to bring forward sentences elsewhere in which ἐν ἀγάπῃ stands first, such as ch. Ephesians 3:18 , where the spirit of the passage is different. (3) The vulg., Ambrst., Erasm., Luth., Castal., Beza, Calvin, Grot., all., join them, as in the text, with εἶναι … ἀμώμους κατ . αὐτοῦ . This has been strongly impugned by the last-mentioned set of Commentators: mainly on the ground that the addition of ἐν ἀγάπῃ to ἁγ . κ . ἀμώμ . κατ . αὐτοῦ , is ungrammatical, is flat and superfluous, and that in neither ch. Ephesians 5:27 , nor Colossians 1:22 , have these adjectives any such qualification. But in answer, I would submit, that in the first place, as against the  construction of ἐν ἁγ . with ἀμώμ ., the objection is quite futile, for our arrangement does not thus construct it, but adds it as a qualifying clause to the whole εἶναι … αὐτοῦ . Next, I hold the qualification to be in the highest degree solemn and appropriate. ἀγάπη , that which man lost at the Fall, but which God is, and to which God restores man by redemption, is the great element in which, as in their abode and breathing-place, all Christian graces subsist, and in which, emphatically, all perfection before God must be found. And so, when the Apostle, ch. Ephesians 4:16 , is describing the glorious building up of the body, the Church, he speaks of its increasing εἰς οἰκοδομὴν ἑαυτοῦ  ἐν ἀγάπῃ . And it is his practice, in this and the parallel Epistle, to add ἐν ἀγάπῃ as the completion of the idea of Christian holiness cf. ch. Ephesians 3:18 ; Colossians 2:2 , also ch. Ephesians 4:2 ; Ephesians 5:2 . With regard to the last objection, in both the places cited, the adjectives are connected with the verb παραστῆσαι , expressed therefore in the abstract as the ultimate result of sanctification in the sight of the Father, not, as here, referring to the  state of sanctification, as consisting and subsisting in love.