 12 .]  in order that we (here first expressed, as distinguished from ὑμεῖς , Ephesians 1:13 : see below)  should be to the praise of His glory (see on Eph 1:6 and Eph 1:14 below),  namely, we who have before hoped in the Christ (we Jewish-Christians, who, before the Christ came, looked forward to His coming, waiting for the consolation of Israel: cf. especially Acts 28:20 , ἕνεκεν γὰρ τῆς ἐλπίδος τοῦ Ἰσραὴλ τὴν ἅλυσιν ταύτην περίκειμαι and Acts 26:6-7 . The objection, that so  few thus looked, is fully met by the largeness of St. Paul’s own expression in this last passage. But this whole interpretation requires defending against opponents. First, the verse is variously punctuated. Harl., and Olsh. even more decidedly, read it εἰς τὸ εἶναι ἡμᾶς , εἰς ἔπαινον δόξ . αὐ ., τοὺς προηλπ . ἐν τῷ χρ . But to this it may be objected, (1) that εἰς ἔπ . δόξης αὐ ., occurring as it does again at the end of the whole passage as the final aim of all, cannot with any probability be here merely parenthetical: (2) that above, Ephesians 1:6 , and below, Ephesians 1:14 , it, as well as the predestination, has reference to the fulness of the Gospel, not to incomplete prefatory hope in Christ (this would be no objection to De W.’s view: see below): (3) that thus we should require some demonstrative expression preceding, to mark out these ἡμᾶς , such as ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἐκληρώθημεν ἡμεῖς οἱ προορισθέντες . The objections which Harl. brings against the ordinary construction are implicitly answered in this exposition. They rest mainly on the mistake of referring ἐκληρώθ . προορισθέντες to the Jewish Christians: see above. De W. denies all reference to Jews and Gentiles, (1) from the analogy of words compounded with προ - ( προ - ακούειν Colossians 1:5 , προλέγειν Galatians 5:21 ; 1 Thessalonians 3:4 , προγράφειν Romans 15:4 , προεπαγγέλλεσθαι Rom 1:2 ), which he says indicate always priority as to the thing spoken of (in his idea here merely, ‘hope previous to the fulfilment of that hope,’ i.e. προ - has no meaning, for all hope must be this), not in comparison with other persons: but (a) this is not true cf. προελθόντες Acts 20:13 , προέχεσθαι , προηγεῖσθαι , προτιθέναι , προάγειν , προπορεύεσθαι , and (b) if it were, it does not touch our interpretation hoped before (Christ’s coming): (2) from Eph 1:13 saying nothing peculiar to Gentile Christians (but see there): (3) from καὶ ὑμᾶς , in ch. Ephesians 2:1 , and Colossians 1:21 , not meaning Gentile Christians, but being merely addressed to the readers generally. But in both these places it is so, merely because other things or persons have just been treated of: whereas here he would understand this ἡμᾶς as including the ὑμεῖς , thus depriving it of the force which it has there).