 8 .]  which he shed abundantly (‘caused to abound:’ ἀφθόνως ἐξέχεε , Thl.: Thdrt. has the same idea, ἀναβλύζει γὰρ τὰς τοῦ ἐλέους πηγάς , κ . τούτοις ἡμᾶς περικλύζει τοῖς ῥεύμασιν . The E. V. is wrong, ‘  wherein He hath abounded :’ no such construction of attraction of a dative being found in the N. T. Calvin and Beza would take ἧς not as an attraction, but as the genitive after ἐπερίσ . as in Luke 15:17 , ‘of which He was full, &c.’ But this does not agree well with the γνωρίσας , &c. below. As little can the ‘  quæ superabundavit ’ of the Vulg. (and Syr.) stand: the attraction of the nominative being scarcely possible, and this being still more inconsistent with γνωρίσας )  forth to us in all (possible)  wisdom and prudence (with E. V., De Wette, &c., I would refer these words to God. On the other hand, Harless (with whom are Olsh., Stier, Ellic., al.) maintains, that neither πάσῃ nor φρονήσει will allow this. “ πᾶς ,” he says, “never =  summus , never betokens the  intension , but only the  extension , never the power, but the frequency, and answers to our ‘every,’ i.e. all possible; so that, when joined to abstracts, it presents them to us as concrete: πᾶσα δύναμις , ‘every power that we know of,’ ‘that exists;’ πᾶσα ὑπομονή , every kind of endurance that we know of; πᾶσα εὐσέβεια , &c. Now it is allowable enough, to put together all excellences of one species, and allege them as the motive of a human act, because we can conceive of  men as wanting in any or all of them: but not so with God, of whom the Apostle, and all of us, conceive as the Essence of all perfection. We may say of God, ‘  in Him is all wisdom ,’ but not, ‘  He did this or that in all wisdom .’ ” “Again,” he continues, “ φρόνησις cannot be ascribed to God.” And this he maintains, not by adopting the view of Wolf, al., that it is  practical knowledge , which suits neither the context nor usage, nor that of Anselm, Bengel, al., that σοφ . is ‘  de præsentibus ,’ φρον . ‘  de futuris ,’ but by understanding σοφία of the normal collective state of the spirit, with reference especially to the  intelligence , which last is expressed according to its various sides, by the words so often found conjoined with σοφία σύνεσις , φρόνησις , γνῶσις . So that φρόνησις , as a one-sided result of σοφία , cannot be predicated of God, but only of men. According to this then, ἐν πάσ . σ . κ . φρ . must refer to that  in the bestowal of which on us He hath made His grace to abound, so that  we should thereby become σοφοὶ κ . φρόνιμοι : as Olsh., ἵνα ἐν πάσῃ σοφίᾳ κ . φρονήσει περιπατῶμεν . Chrys. joins the words with γνωρίσας , understanding them, however, of  us , not of God: ἐν π . σοφ . κ . φρ ., φησί , γνωρίσας ἡμ . τὸ μ . τ . θ . αὐτ .· τουτέστι , σοφοὺς κ . φρονίμους ποιήσας τὴν ὄντως σοφίας , τὴν ὄντως φρόνησιν . But see, on such arrangement, the note on ἐν ἀγάπῃ Ephesians 1:4 .
	Stier quotes from Passavant: “In the living knowledge of the thoughts and ways of God we first get a sure and clear light upon ourselves and our ways, a light cast from above upon the import and aim of this our earthly life in the sight of God and His eternity. Here is the true wisdom of the heart, the true prudence of life.” But against this view, De W. alleges, (1) that φρόνησις can be as well predicated of God as γνῶσις , Romans 11:33 , and is actually thus predicated, Proverbs 3:19 ; Jer 10:12 LXX, of His  creative wisdom, which is analogous to His  redemptive wisdom. (2) that God’s  absolute wisdom is not here treated of, but His relative wisdom, as apparent in the use of means subservient to its end: so that ἐν πάσῃ would mean ‘in all wisdom thereto belonging,’ as Jer.: ‘Deus in omni sapientia sua atque prudentia, juxta quod consequi poterant, myst rium revelavit.’ And he compares ἡ πολυποίκιλος σοφία τ . θ . ch. Ephesians 3:10 .
	These last arguments are weighty, as shewing the  legitimacy of the application to God: but even beyond them is that which construction and usage furnish.
	It would be hardly possible, did no other consideration intervene, to refer this ἑν π . σ . κ . φρ . to other than the subject of the sentence, cf. ἧς ἐχαρ . ἡμᾶς ἐν τῷ ἠγαπ . above. I therefore decide (still; after reconsideration of Ellicott’s note) for the application to God, not to us. It was in His manifold wisdom and prudence, manifested in all ways possible for us, that He poured out His grace upon us: and this wisdom and prudence was especially exemplified in that which follows, the notification to us of His hidden will, &c. In Colossians 1:9 , the reference is clearly different: see note there),  having made known ( γνωρίσας is explicative of ἐπερίσσευσεν , just as προορίσας is of ἐξελέξατο above: ‘in that He made known.’ This ‘making known,’ is not merely the information of the understanding, but the revelation, in its fullness, to the heart)  to us (not, the Apostles, but Christians in general, as throughout the passage)  the mystery (reff. and Romans 16:25 . St. Paul ever represents the redemptive counsel of God as a mystery, i.e.  a design hidden in His counsels , until revealed to mankind in and by Christ. So that his use of μυστήρ . has nothing in common, except the facts of concealment and revelation, with the mysteries of the heathen world, nor with any secret tradition over and above the gospel as revealed in the Scriptures. All who vitally know that, i.e. all the Christian church are the initiated: and all who have the word, read or preached,  may vitally know it. Only the  world without, the unbelieving, are the uninitiated)  of (objective genitive, ‘the material of which mystery was, &c.’)  His will (that which He purposed),  according to His good pleasure (belongs to γνωρίσας , and specifies it: not to θελήμ . ( τοῦ κατὰ τ . ε . αὐ .): i.e. So that the revelation took place in a time and manner consonant to God’s eternal pleasure viz. εἰς οἰκον ., &c. On εὐδοκ ., see above Eph 1:5 )  which He purposed (reff.)  in Himself ( ἐν αὐτῷ is read, and referred (1) to  Christ , by Chrys. and the ff., Anselm, Bengel, Luther, all. But this is impossible, because ἐν τῷ χριστῷ is introduced with the proper name below, which certainly would not occur on the  second mention after ἐν αὐτῷ , in the same reference: (2) to  the Father , by Harless. But this is equally impossible. For αὐτῷ to refer to the subject of the sentence, we must have the mind of the reader removed one step from that subject by an intermediate idea supervening, as in κατὰ τὴν εὐδοκίαν αὐτοῦ . Had this been κατὰ τ . πρόθεσιν αὐτοῦ , the reference would have been legitimate. But when, as here, no such idea intervenes, ἣν προέθετο ἐν αὐτῷ the subject is directly before the mind, and αὐτός , not being reflective but demonstrative, must point to some other person: who in this case can only be Christ. Our only resource then is to read αὑτῷ )  in order to (belongs to προέθετο , not to γνωρίσας . Very many ancient Commentators and the Vulg. and E. V., take εἰς wrongly as = ἐν , by which the whole sense is confused. Hardly less confusing is the rendering of Erasm., Calv., Est., al.,  usque ad tempus dispensations , thereby introducing into προέθετο the complex idea of  decreed and laid up , instead of the simple one which the context requires)  the œconomy of the fulfilment of the seasons (after long and careful search, I am unable to find a word which will express the full meaning of οἰκονομια . The difficulty of doing so will be better seen below, after τὸ πλήρ . τῶν καιρ . has been dealt with. This expression is by ro means = τὸ πλ . τοῦ χρόνου in Galatians 4:4 , nor to be  equalized with it, as Harl. attempts to do, by saying that many καιροί .’ make up a χρόνος . The mistake which has misled almost all the Commentators here, and which as far as I know Stier has been the only one to expose, has been that of taking τὸ πλ . τῶν καιρῶν as a fixed terminus a quo, = the coming of Christ, as Galatians 4:4 , whereas usage, and the sense, determine it to mean, the whole duration of the Gospel times; cf. especially ch. Ephesians 2:7 , ἐν τοῖς αἰῶσιν τοῖς ἐπερχομένοις : 1 Corinthians 10:11 , τὰ τέλη τῶν αἰώνων , and Luke 21:24 , καιροὶ ἐθνῶν , Acts 1:7 ; Acts 3:19 ; Act 3:21 ; 1 Timothy 2:6 . Thus τὸ πλ . τ . καιρῶν will mean, the filling up, completing, fulfilment, of the appointed seasons, carrying on during the Gospel dispensation. Now, belonging to, carried on during, this fulfilling of the periods or seasons, is the οἰκονομία here spoken of. And, having regard to the derivation and usage of the word, it will mean,  the giving forth of the Gospel under God’s providential arrangements . First and greatest of all, HE is the οἰκονόμος : then, above all others, His divine Son: and as proceeding from the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit and then in subordinate degrees, every one who οἰκονομίαν πεπίστευται , i.e. all Christians, even to the lowest, as οἰκονόμοι ποικίλης χἀριτος θεοῦ , 1 Peter 4:10 . So that our best rendering will be,  œconomy , leaving the word to be explained in teaching. The genitive καιρῶν is one of  belonging or  appurtenance as in κρίσις μεγάλης ἡμέρας , Jud 1:6 ),  to sum up (the infinitive belongs to and specifies εὐδοκίαν ; ἣν … καιρῶν having been logically parenthetical, and explains what that εὐδοκία was. The verb, here as in the only other place in the N. T. where it occurs (ref.), signifies to  comprehend, gather together, sum up . As there the whole law is comprehended in one saying, so here all creation is comprehended, summed up, in Christ. But it can hardly be supposed that the ἀνακεφαλαιώσασθαι has express reference here to Him as the κεφαλή : for 1) this is not predicated of Him till below, Ephesians 1:22 ; Ephesians 2:0 ) the verb is from κεφάλαιον , not from κεφαλή ; so that such reference would be only a play on the word: 3) the compound verb, as here, is used in Rom. l. c. in the simple ordinary sense. The ἀνα -applies to the gathering of all individuals, not to any  restoration (Syr., vulg., Olsh. (Ellic. in part), al.), in which τὰ ἐπὶ τοῖς οὐρανοῖς would have no share. See more below: and cf. the [2] , Colossians 1:19-20 , and note there)  all things (neuter, and to be literally so taken: not as a masculine, which, when a neuter is so understood, must be implied in the context, as in Galatians 3:22 :  the whole creation , see Col 1:20 )  in the Christ (q. d., His Christ. The article is not expressed with χριστός after a preposition, unless with some such special meaning: see below Eph 1:12 ),  the things in (lit.  on ; see below)  the heavens (universal not to be limited to the  angels (Chrys., &c.), nor  spirits of the just (Beza, al.), still less to be understood of the Jews, τὰ ἐπὶ τ . γῆς being the Gentiles (Locke, &c.). Chrys.’s words are so far true, μίαν κεφαλὴν ἅπασιν ἐπέθηκε τὸ κατὰ σάρκα χριστόν , κ . ἀγγέλοις κ . ἀνθρώποις · … τοῖς μὲν τὸ κατὰ σάρκα , τοῖς δὲ τὸν θεὸν λόγον but the Apostle’s meaning extends much further. The rec.  ἐν τ . οὐρ . seems to have been adopted from Colossians 1:20 . There also ἐπί is read, but by L and a few mss. only, and evidently from our passage. The construction is a common one: cf. ἐπὶ χθονί Il. γ . 195, ἐπὶ πύλῃσι , ib. 149. It is strange to find in Ellicott a defence of the rec. ἐν , grounded on the fact that “ ἐπί is never joined in the N. T. with οὐρανός or οὐρανοί , and that ἐν οὐρανῷ and ἐπὶ γῆς are invariably found in antithesis.” Such an argument would sweep away all ἅπαξ λεγόμενα of construction, and break down the significance of all exceptional usage)  and the things on the earth (general, as before τὰ πάντα . All creation is summed up in Christ: it was all the result of the Love of the Father for the Son (see my Doctrine of Divine Love, Serm, i.), and in the Son it is all regarded by the Father. The vastly different relation to Christ of the different parts of creation, is no objection to this union in Him: it affects, as Beng. on Romans 8:19 , “pro suo quodque genus captu.” The Church, of which the Apostle here mainly treats, is subordinated to Him in the highest degree of conscious and joyful union: those who are not His spiritually, in mere subjugation, yet consciously; the inferior tribes of creation, unconsciously: but objectively, all are summed up in Him);
	 [2] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .