 1 .]  χρ  .   Ἰησ  . , as in the case of δοῦλος Ἰησ . χρ ., seems rather to denote possession, than to belong to ἀπόστολος and designate the person from whom sent.
	 διὰ θελ  .   θεοῦ ] See on 1 Corinthians 1:1 . As these words there have a special reference, and the corresponding ones in Gal 1:1 also, so it is natural to suppose that here he has in his mind, hardly perhaps the especial subject of Ephesians 1:3-11 , the will of the Father as the ground of the election of the church, but, which is more likely in a general introduction to the whole Epistle, the great subject of which he is about to treat, and himself as the authorized expositor of it.
	 τ  .   οὖσιν ἐν Ἐφ .] On this, and on Ephesus, see Prolegomena. On ἁγίοις , see Ellicott’s note. It is used here in its widest sense, as designating the members of Christ’s visible Church, presumed to fulfil the conditions of that membership: cf. especially ch. Ephesians 5:3 .
	 καὶ πιστοῖς ἐν χ. Ἰ  . ] These words follow rather unusually, separated from τ . ἁγ . by the designation of abode: a circumstance which might seem to strengthen the suspicion against ἐν Ἐφέσῳ , were not such transpositions by no means unexampled in St. Paul. See the regular order in Colossians 1:2 . The omission of the article before  πιστ  . shews that the  same persons are designated by  both adjectives. Its insertion would not, however, prove the contrary.
	 ἐν χρ  .   Ἰησ  . belongs only to πιστοῖς : see Colossians 1:2 :  faithful , i.e.  believers, in (but ἐν does not belong to πιστός , as it often does to πιστεύω : see also Col 1:4 )  Christ Jesus . This, in its highest sense, ‘  qui fidem præstant ,’ not mere  truth , or  faithfulness , is imported: see reff. The ἁγίοις and πιστοῖς denote their spiritual life from its two sides that of God who calls and sanctifies, that of themselves who believe. So Bengel, ‘Dei est, sanctificare nos et sibi asserere; nostrum, ex Dei munere, credere.’ Stier remarks that by πιστ . ἐν χ . Ἰ ., ἁγίοις gets its only full and N. T. meaning. He also notices in these expressions already a trace of the two great divisions of the Epistle God’s grace towards us, and our faith towards Him.