 7 .] Now the Apostle passes, with ἐν ᾧ , to the consideration of  the ground of the church in the SON (7 12): see the synopsis above. But the Father still continues the great subject of the whole; only the  reference is now to the Son.  In whom (see on ἐν χρ . Ephesians 1:3 cf. Rom 3:24 )  We have (objective ‘  there is for us .’ But not without a subjective implied import, as spoken of those who truly  have it have laid hold of it: “are ever needing and ever having it,” Eadie)  the Redemption (from God’s wrath or rather from that which brought us under God’s wrath, the guilt and power of sin, Matthew 1:21 . The article expresses notoriety ‘of which we all know,’ ‘of which the law testified, and the prophets spoke’)  through (as the instrument: a further fixing of the ἐν ᾧ )  His blood (which was the price paid for that redemption, Acts 20:28 ; 1 Corinthians 6:20 ; both the ultimate climax of His obedience for us, Philippians 2:8 , and, which is most in view here, the  propitiation , in our nature, for the sin of the world, Romans 3:25 ; Colossians 1:20 . It is a noteworthy observation of Harless here, that the choice of the word, the BLOOD of Christ, is of itself a testimony to the idea of  expiation having been in the writer’s mind. Not the  death of the victim, but its BLOOD, was the typical instrument of expiation. And I may notice that in Philippians 2:8 , where Christ’s  obedience , not His atonement, is spoken of, there is no mention of His shedding His Blood, only of the act of His Death),  the remission (not “  overlooking ” ( πάρεσιν ); see note on Rom 3:25 )  of (our)  transgressions (explanation of τ . ἀπολύτρωσιν : not to be limited, but extending to all riddance from the practice and consequences of our transgressions: at least equipollent with ἀπολύτρωσιν : so Thdrt., δι ʼ ἐκείνου γὰρ τὰς τῶν ἁμαρτημάτων ἀποθέμενοι κηλῖδας , κ . τῆς τοῦ τυράννου δουλείας ἀπαλλαγέντες , τοὺς τῆς εἰκόνος τῆς θείας ἀπελάβομεν χαρακτῆρας . This against Harless),  according to the riches (Ellic. compares Plato, Euthyphr. 12 A, τρυφᾷς ὑπὸ πλούτου τῆς σοφίας )  of His grace (this alone would prevent ἄφεσις applying to merely the  forgiveness of sins. As Passavant (in Stier), “We have in this grace not only redemption from misery and wrath, not only forgiveness, but we find in it the liberty, the glory, the inheritance of the children of God, the crown of eternal life: cf. 2Co 8:9 ”),