 22 .]  and subjected all things under His feet (from the Messianic Psalms 8:0 ; not without an allusion also in καθίσας , &c. above to Psalms 110:1 : not merely cited, as Thdrt., καὶ τ . προφητικὴν ἐπήγαγε μαρτυρίαν , but interwoven into the context, πάντα being a summing up of all mentioned before),  and gave (‘  presented ;’ keep the literal sense: not ‘  appointed ;’ see below) HIM (emphatic, from its position: HIM, thus exalted, thus glorified, the Father not only raised to this supereminence, but gave Him to His redeemed as their Head, &c.)  as Head over all things to the Church (not as Chrys., in either of his alternatives: ἢ τὸν ὄντα ὑπὲρ πάντα τὰ ὁρώμενα κ . τὰ νοούμενα χριστόν (which would be τὴν κεφ ., or τὸν ὑπὲρ πάντα ), ἢ ὑπὲρ πάντα τὰ ἀγαθὰ τοῦτο πεποίηκε , τὸ τὸν υἱὸν δοῦναι κεφαλήν , which is beside the context, in which no comparison is made between the gift of Christ and other blessings: nor as Beng., ‘Ecclesia, super omnia, super imperia, &c., quorum caput (?) Christus est, potest dicere, Christus est caput meum: ego sum corpus ejus,’ for this sense cannot possibly be extracted out of the words themselves ὑπὲρ πάντα : nor as Baumgarten, ὑπὲρ πάντα = μάλιστα πάντων ,  præcipue, potius quam cæteris , for, not to mention other objections, πάντα must surely be the same in meaning as πάντα before: nor can πάντα be masculine, as Jer., Anselm, al., and Wahl: nor, as Calv., ‘quia  simul plena rerum omnium potestas et administratio illi sit commissa:’ nor, with Harl., does πάντα find its limitation within the Church, so as not to apply to other things without it: nor is ὑπὲρ πάντα to be taken with κεφ .,  summum caput , as Olsh., all.: nor as Meyer, Stier, and Ellicott (edn. 1: in edn. 2, he interprets nearly as below), is another κεφαλήν to be supplied before τῇ ἐκκλ ., ‘gave Him, as Head over all things, as Head to the Church:’ nor is the dative a dat. commodi, as De W.: but the meaning is thus to be gained, from what follows: CHRIST is Head over all things: the Church is the BODY of Christ, and as such is the fulness of Him who fills all with all: the Head of such a Body, is Head over all things; therefore when God gives Christ as  Head to the church, He gives Him as  Head over all things to the church, from the necessity of the case. Thus what follows is epexegetical of this),  which same (Church, ‘  quæ quidem ;’ hardly ‘  ut quæ ,’ “in virtue of her being,” as Meyer)  is His BODY (not in a figure merely: it is veritably His Body: not that which in our glorified humanity He personally bears, but that in which He, as the Christ of God, is manifested and glorified by spiritual organization. He is its Head; from Him comes its life; in Him, it is exalted: in it, He is lived forth and witnessed to; He possesses nothing for Himself, neither His communion with the Father, nor His fulness of the Spirit, nor His glorified humanity, but all for His Church, which is in the innermost reality, HIMSELF; His flesh and His bones and therefore)  the fulness (  πλήρ  . is in apposition with τὸ σῶμα αὐτ ., and is a fresh description of ἡ ἐκκλησία . It would pass my limits, even to notice summarily what has been written on  πλήρωμα . I will endeavour to give an account of the word itself. Like other derivatives in - μα from the perfect passive, it would appear primarily to designate either (1) concrete, that thing on which the action denoted by the verb has passed: e.g. ποίημα , the thing made, πρᾶγμα , the thing done, σπέρμα , the thing sown, πλήρωμα ,  the thing filled : or (2) abstract, that occurrence whereby the action denoted has been exemplified: e.g. τρῶμα , the effect of τιτρώσκειν , not the thing wounded, but the wound inflicted: so κλάσμα , ἀρίθμημα , and the like; πλήρωμα ,  the fulness . From this latter, the transition is very easy to the meaning the  thing whereby the effect is produced, as where πλήρωμα is used for the crew of a ship (see also Matthew 9:16 [5] ; Mark 6:43 ; 1 Corinthians 10:26 ; Galatians 4:4 ; Eph 1:10 ), ζεῦγμα for a bridge or yoke, &c. Hence arises the  so-called active sense of such nouns, which is not in fact an active sense at all, but a logical transference from the effect to that which exemplifies the effect. Here, the simple and primary meaning is by far the best, ‘  the thing filled ,’ “  the filled up receptacle ” (cf. κατοικητήριον , ch. Eph 2:22 ), as Eadie expresses it (see also Ellicott), the meaning being, that the church, being the Body of Christ, is dwelt in and filled by God: it is His πλήρωμα in an especial manner His fulness abides in it, and is exemplified by it. The nearest approach to any one word in English which may express it, is made by  fulness , though it, as well as πλ ., requires explaining, as importing not the inherent plenitude of God Himself, but that communicated plenitude of gifts and graces wherein He infuses Himself into His Church. I would refer those who wish to enter more fully into this matter, to the long and laboured notes of Harless, and Stier: and to Fritzsche on Rom. vol. ii. pp. 469 ff.)  of Him who filleth (it is doubted whether  πληρουμένου is passive, or middle in an active sense. Those who take πλήρωμα above, actively, “  the filling up ,” generally (Harless is an exception) defend the passive sense here, “of Him who is (being) filled, &c.” So Chrys: πλήρωμα , φησίν · οἷον κεφαλὴ πληροῦται παρὰ τοῦ σώματος … διὰ πάντων οὖν πληροῦται τὸ σῶμα αὐτοῦ . τότε πληροῦται ἡ κεφαλή , τότε τέλειον σῶμα γίνεται , ὅταν ὁμοῦ πάντες ὦμεν συνημμένοι κ . συγκεκολλημένοι . Jer.: “Sicut adimpletur imperator, si quotidie ejus augeatur exercitus, et fiant novæ provinciæ, et populorum multitudo succrescat, ita et Christus, in eo, quod sibi credunt omnia, ipse adimpletur in omnibus;” and Estius: “Qui secundum omnia, sive quoad omnia in omnibus sui corporis membris adimpletur. Nisi enim essent hic quidem pes ejus, ille vero manus, alius autem aliud membrum … non perficeretur Christus secundum rationem capitis.” But to this it is difficult to assign any satisfactory sense, especially on account of τὰ πάντα ἐν πᾶσιν . It certainly cannot be said that Christ awaits His completion, in any such meaning as this, by the completion of his Church. And it is not probable that if such had been the meaning, τὰ πάντα ἐν πᾶσιν would have thus barely and emphatically preceded the participle which itself conveyed so new and startling an idea. We should have had some such arrangement as this τὸ πλήρωμα τοῦ καὶ αὐτοῦ τὰ πάντα ( κ .) ἐν πᾶσιν πληρουμένου . If now we take πληρουμένου in an active reflective sense, both meaning and arrangement will be satisfactory ‘  the fulness (receptacle, filled and possessed)  of Him who filleth ’ τὰ πάντα ἐν πᾶσιν . But are we justified in thus taking it? It seems so, from Xen. Hell. vi. 2. 14, ὁ στρατηγὸς μάλα ὀξέως τὰς ναῦς ἐπληροῦτο κ . τοὺς τριηράρχους ἠνάγκαζε . See likewise Plato, Gorg. § 106; Xen. Hell. v. 4. 56; vi. 2. 35: Demosth. p. 1208. 14: Plut. Alcib. 35: Pollux i. 99: in all of which the 1 aor. middle is thus used. Having then this authority as far as grammatical usage is concerned, we are further inclined to this rendering by ch. Ephesians 4:10 , where it is said of Christ, ὁ ἀναβὰς ὑπεράνω πάντων τῶν οὐρανῶν ,  ἵνα πληρώσῃ τὰ πάντα , and the Apostle proceeds to enumerate the various gifts bestowed by Him on His Church. See further in note there)  all things (the whole universe: not to be restricted in meaning. The Church is the special receptacle and abiding place the πλήρωμα κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν , of Him who fills all things)  with all things (i.e. who is the bestower of all, wherever found. ἐν πᾶσιν has been rendered ‘  every where ’ (B.-Crus.): ‘  in every way ’ (De W.): ‘  in every case ’ (Harl.): and al.: but the Apostle’s own usage is our best guide, πληροῦσθε ἐν πνεύματι , ch. Ephesians 5:18 , and other reff., and directs us to the  instrumental or elemental meaning the thing with, or by, or in which as an element, the filling takes place. So that the expression will mean,  with all , not only gifts, not only blessings, but  things : who fills all creation with whatever it possesses who is the Author and Giver of all things. The reference is, I think, to the Father, not to Christ. The latter has been imagined (see especially Ellicott), principally from strictly parallelizing the two clauses, τὸ σῶμα | αὐτοῦ [6] , τὸ πλήρωμα | τοῦ τ . π . ἐν π . πληρουμένου [7] . But this is by no means conclusive: the second definitive clause may assert more than the first; may be, not subordinate to the first, but inclusive of it. In ch. Ephesians 4:10 , where Christ’s filling all things is spoken of, we have the active voice, denoting the bare objective fact: whereas here the reciprocal middle implies a filling for Himself, which can hardly be predicated of any but the Father, for whom are all things, even the Son himself).
	 [5] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [6] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [7] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .