 3 .]  Blessed (see note on Romans 9:5 . Understand εἴη (Job 1:21 ; Psalms 112:2 ; or ἔστω , 2 Chronicles 9:8 . Ellicott) ‘Be He praised.’ See a similar doxology, 2 Corinthians 1:3 . Almost all St. Paul’s Epistles begin with some ascription of praise. That to Titus is the only exception (not Gal.: cf. Gal 1:5 ). See also 1Pe 1:3 )  be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ (cf. Rom 15:6 ; 2 Corinthians 1:3 ; 2 Corinthians 11:31 ; Col 1:3 also 1 Corinthians 15:24 . Such is the simplest and most forcible sense of the words as Thl., ἰδοὺ κ . θεὸς κ . πατὴρ τοῦ αὐτοῦ κ . ἑνὸς χριστοῦ · θεὸς μέν , ὡς σαρκωθέντος · πατὴρ δέ , ὡς θεοῦ λόγου . See John 20:17 , from which saying of our Lord it is not improbable that the expression took its rise. Meyer maintains, ‘God who is also the Father of …:’ on the ground that only πατήρ , not θεός , requires a genitive supplied. But we may fairly reply that, if we come to strictness of construction, his meaning would require ὁ θεός , ὁ καὶ πατήρ . Harless’s objection, that on our rendering it must be ὁ θεός τε καὶ π ., is well answered by Meyer from 1 Peter 2:25 , τὸν ποιμένα κ . ἐπίσκοπον τῶν ψυχῶν ἡμῶν . Ellicott prefers Meyer’s view, but pronounces the other both grammatically and doctrinally tenable),  who blessed (aor.: not ‘  hath blessed:’ the historical fact in the counsels of the Father being thought of throughout the sentence. εὐλογητός εὐλογήσας εὐλογία such was the ground-tone of the new covenant. As in creation God blessed them, saying, ‘Be fruitful and multiply,’ so in redemption, at the introduction of the covenant, “all families of the earth shall be BLESSED,” at its completion, “Come ye BLESSED of my Father.”
	But  God’s blessing is in  facts ours in words only)  us (whom? not the Apostle only: nor Paul and his fellow-Apostles: but, ALL CHRISTIANS all the members of Christ. The καὶ ὑμεῖς of Eph 1:13 perfectly agrees with this: see there: but the κἀγώ of Eph 1:15 does not agree with the other views)  in (instrumental or medial: the element in which, and means by which, the blessing is imparted)  all (i.e. all possible all, exhaustive, in all richness and fulness of blessing: cf. Eph 1:23 note)  blessing of the Spirit (not merely, ‘  spiritual (inward)  blessing :’ πνευματικός in the N. T. always implies the working of the Holy Spirit, never bearing merely our modern inaccurate sense of spiritual as opposed to bodily. See 1 Corinthians 9:11 , which has been thus misunderstood)  in the heavenly places (so the expression, which occurs five times in this Epistle (see reff.), and no where else, can only mean: cf. Ephesians 1:20 . It is not probable that St. Paul should have chosen an unusual expression for the purposes of this Epistle, and then used it in several different senses. Besides, as Harless remarks, the preposition ἐπί in composition with adjectives gives usually a local sense: e.g. in ἐπίγειος , ἐπιχθόνιος , ἐπουράνιος , as compared with γήϊνος , χθόνιος , οὐράνιος . Chrys., al., would understand it ‘  heavenly blessings ,’ in which case the Apostle would hardly have failed to add χαρίσμασιν , or ἀγαθοῖς , or the like.
	But, with the above rendering,  what is the sense? Our country, πολίτευμα , is  in heaven , Philippians 3:20 : there our High Priest stands, blessing us. There are our treasures, Matthew 6:20-21 , and our affections to be, Colossians 3:1 ff.: there our hope is laid up, Colossians 1:5 : our inheritance is reserved for us, 1 Peter 1:4 . And there, in that place, and belonging to that state, is the εὐλογία , the gift of the Spirit, Hebrews 6:4 , poured out on those who τὰ ἄνω φρονοῦσιν . Materially, we are yet in the body: but in the Spirit, we are in heaven only waiting for the redemption of the body to be entirely and literally there.
	I may once for all premise, that it will be impossible, in the limits of these notes, to give even a synopsis of the various opinions on the rich fulness of doctrinal expressions in this Epistle. I must state in each case that which appears to me best to suit the context, and those variations which must  necessarily be mentioned, referring to such copious commentaries as Harless or Stier for further statement)  in Christ (“the threefold ἐν after εὐλογήσας , has a meaning ever deeper and more precise: and should therefore be kept in translating. The blessing with which God has blessed us, consists and expands itself in all  blessing of the Spirit then brings in  Heaven , the heavenly state in us, and us in it then finally, CHRIST,  personally , He Himself, who is set and exalted into Heaven, comes by the Spirit down into us, so that He is in us and we in Him of a truth, and thereby, and in so far, we are with Him in heaven.” Stier).