 19 .]  and what the surpassing (a word only pauline in N. T., see reff.)  greatness of His power to usward who believe (construction as before, Ephesians 1:18 , τῆς δυνάμ . αὐτ . εἰς ἡμ ., not τί τὸ ὑπ … ( ἐστὶν ) εἰς ἡμ . Not His future power in the actual resurrection only is spoken of, but THE WHOLE of His energizing to usward from first to last, principally however His  present spiritual work, cf. πιστεύοντας , not, as in 2 Thessalonians 1:10 , πιστεύσασιν : see also Colossians 2:12 , und 1 Peter 1:3-5 . This power is exerted to  usward , which expression of the E. V. I retain as giving better the prominence to  us in the fact of its  direction , than the more usual but tamer ‘  toward us .’ But it is not, as Matth., Flatt, the power which works faith in us, except in so far indeed as faith is a portion of its whole work: here, the πιστεύοντες are the material on which the power works),  according to (in proportion to, as might be expected from: but more than this His power to usward is a part of, a continuation of, or rather included as a consequence in, the other. All the shallower interpretations must be avoided here: Grot., ‘rei similitudinem significat:’ Van Ess., gleich der Werkung: nor must we join, as Erasm. al., κατὰ τ . ἐν . with πιστεύοντας , which is beside the Apostle’s purpose: nor, with Mey., understand it as a qualification of εἰς τὸ εἰδέναι (  Erkenntnissgrund des vorherigen Momentes ): nor, with Harless, refer it to all three, ἐλπίς , πλοῦτος , μέγεθος : but with Chrys., Calv., Est., Grot., De W., Ellic., take it as an amplification, or explanation, or grounding, of τὸ ὑπερβ … to πιστεύοντας )  the working (putting forth in action, in an object)  of the strength of His might (  κράτος the actual measure of  ἰσχύς , His might. The latter is the attribute, subjectively considered: the former the weight of that attribute, objectively esteemed: the  ἐνέργεια , the operation, in matter of fact, of the strength of that might. Calvin’s distinction, though not quite accurate, is worth noting: “Inter tria nomina quæ hic posuit, hoc interest: quod  robur est quasi radix,  potentia , autem, arbor (  qu. vice versâ? ):  efficacia , fructus, est enim extensio divini brachii, quæ in actum emergit”),  which (viz. ἐνέργειαν : cf. Ephesians 1:6 , note)  He hath wrought in Christ (our ἀπαρχή , as Œc.: nor only this, but our Head, in virtue of God’s ἐνέργεια in whom, His power to usward is made possible and actual. No shallower view, such as that of Grot. that ‘Deus oculis humanis quantum posset, in Christo, capite et duce nostro,  ostendit ,’ must be for a moment admitted)  in that He raised (as γνωρίσας above, Eph 1:9 )  Him from the dead (the resurrection of Christ was not a mere bodily act, an earnest of our bodily resurrection, but was a spiritual act, the raising of His humanity (which is ours), consisting of body and soul, from infirmity to glory, from the curse to the final triumph. In that He died, HE DIED UNTO SIN once; but in that He liveth, HE LIVETH UNTO GOD. And so ἡμεῖς οἱ πιστεύοντες , knit to Him, have died unto sin and live unto God. It is necessary to the understanding of the following, thoroughly to appreciate this or we shall be in danger of regarding, with the shallower expositors, Christ’s resurrection as merely a  pledge of our  bodily resurrection, or as a mere  figure representing our  spiritual resurrection, not as  involving the resurrection of the Church in both senses);  and setting Him at His right hand (see especially Mar 16:19 )  in the heavenly places (see on Ephesians 1:3 : and Matthew 6:9 , note. But the fact of the universal idea, of God’s dwelling being in heaven, being only a symbolism common to all men, must not for a moment induce us to let go the verity of Christ’s bodily existence, or to explain away the glories of His resurrection into mere spiritualities. As Stephen saw Him, so He veritably is: in human form, locally existent)  over above (not, as in my former editions [before 1865], ‘  far above .’ Ellicott says, “The intensive force which Chrys. and Thl. find in this word, ἵνα τὸ ἀκρότατον ὕψος δηλώσῃ , and which has recently been adopted by Stier and Eadie, is very doubtful: as is also the assertion (Eadie) that this prevails in the majority of passages in the LXX: cf. Ezekiel 1:26 ; Ezekiel 8:2 ; Ezekiel 10:19 ; Ezekiel 11:22 ; Ezekiel 43:15 ; and even Deuteronomy 26:19 ; Deuteronomy 28:1 . Such distinct instances as Ezekiel 43:15 , and in the N. T., Hebrews 9:5 , the similarly unemphatic use of the antitheton ὑποκάτω , John 1:51 , Luke 8:16 , and the tendencies of Alexandrian and later Greek to form duplicated compounds, make it highly probable that ὑπεράνω , both here and ch. Ephesians 4:10 , implies little more than simple local elevation. So too Syr. and apparently all the ancient versions”)  all government (cf. Mat 28:8 )  and power and might and lordship (see similar combinations in reff. The most reasonable account of the four words seems to be this:  ὑπ  .   πάσ  .   ἀρχῆς gives the highest and fullest expression of exaltation:  κ  .   ἐξουσίας is added as filling out ἀρχῆς in detail: ἐξουσία being not only government, but every kind of official power, primary and delegated: cf. Matthew 8:9 ; Matthew 10:1 ; Matthew 21:23 ff.; Luke 20:20 ; Luke 23:7 . Then in the second pair,  δύναμις is mere  might , the raw material, so to speak, of power:  κυριότης is that pre-eminence or lordship, which δύναμις establishes for itself. So that in the first pair we descend from the higher and concentrated to the lower and diffused: in the second we ascend from the lower and diffused to the higher and concentrated. The following shews that in this enumeration not only earthly, nor only heavenly authorities are meant to be included, but both together, so as to make it perfectly general. That the  evil spirits are included, is therefore manifest: see also ch. Ephesians 6:12 ; 1Co 15:24-26 )  and every name that is named (further generalization: indicating not merely titles of honour (cf. ὀνομαζομ .), nor persons, but, as Stier, a transition from the ἀρχαί , &c. to πάντα below: answering to οὔτε τις κτίσις ἑτέρα , cf. Romans 8:39 . And this transition passes into still wider meaning in the following words)  not only in this present state, but also in that which is to come (= ἐνεστῶτα and μέλλοντα of Rom 8:38 not only  time present and to come, but the present (earthly) condition of things, and the future (heavenly) one. And forasmuch as that heavenly state which is for us  future , is now, to those in it, present,  it is by the easiest transition denoted by the μέλλων αἰών : cf. Luke 20:35 , and especially Hebrews 2:5 , τὴν οἰκουμένην τ . μέλλουσαν . So that the meanings seem combined, ‘every name now named in earth and heaven:’ and, ‘every name which we name, not only now, but hereafter.’ And in this last view Thdrt.: προστέθεικεν , ὅτι καὶ εἴ τινας τούτων ἀγνοοῦμεν , μετὰ δὲ ταῦτα γνωσόμεθα ἐν τῷ μέλλοντι βίῳ . Chrys.: ἄρα ἐστὶ δυνάμεών τινων ὀνόματα ἡμῖν ἄσημα κ . οὐ γνωριζόμενα . Grot., ‘quæ noscemus in altero sæcuIo:’ Beng., ‘quamvis non omnes nominare possumus.’ Wesley, beautifully expanding Bengel (Stier, p. 183): ‘We know that the king is above all, though we cannot name all the officers of his court. So we know that Christ is above all, though we are not able to name all His subjects’),