 11 .]  in Him (emphatic repetition, to connect more closely with Him the following relative clause),  in whom we (Christians,  all , both Jews and Gentiles; who are resolved below into ἡμεῖς and ὑμεῖς : see on Eph 1:12 )  were also (besides having, by His purpose, the revelation of His will, Ephesians 1:9 .
	Not ‘  we also ,’ καὶ ἡμεῖς , as vulg. “  in quo etiam nos …,” nor as E. V. ‘  in whom also ’)  taken for His inheritance ( κληρόω , in its ordinary meaning, ‘  to appoint by lot ,’ then ‘  to appoint ’ generally: κληροῦμαι , mid. ‘  to get , or  possess any thing  by such  appointment .’ The aorist passive, if ever taken in a middle sense, cannot be thus understood here, on account of εἰς τὸ εἶναι following. Confining ourselves therefore to the strict passive sense, we have three meanings apparently open to us: (1) ‘  we were appointed by lot .’ So Chrys., Thl., vulg. (  sorte vocati sumus ), Erasm. (  sorte electi sumus ). Chrys. supposes this apparently fortuitous choice to be  corrected by προορ . κ . τ . λ . following: ‘we were allotted, yet not by chance:’ others justify it, as Estius, ‘quia in ipsis electis nulla est causa cur eligantur præ aliis.’ But to this Meyer properly opposes the fact, that we are never by St. Paul said to be chosen by any such θεία τύχη , but only by the gracious purpose of God: cf. Plato, Legg. vi. p. 759 c: κληροῦν οὕτω τῇ θείᾳ τύχῃ ἀποδιδόντα . (2) ‘  we were made partakers of the inheritance ,’ i.e. of the Kingdom of God, as Israel of Canaan, Acts 26:18 : Colossians 1:12 . This is adopted by Harl., and Mey., and many others. But it seems without authority from usage: the instance which Mey. quotes from Pind., Ol. viii. 19, κληροῦν τινι , not bearing this rendering. And besides, the context is against it: ἐκληρώθημεν being followed, as Stier observes, not by εἰς τὸ  ἔχειν ἡμ ., but by εἰς τὸ  εἶναι ἡμ ., and thus pointing at something which ‘we’ are to  become , not to  possess . Another reason, see below. (3) ‘  we were made an (God’s)  inheritance .’ This (Grot., Beng., Olsh., De W., Stier, Ellic., al.) seems to me the only rendering by which philology and the context are alike satisfied. We thus take the ordinary meaning of κληρόω , to assign as a κλῆρος : and the prevalent idea of Israel in the O. T. is as a people whom the Lord chose  for His inheritance ; cf. Deuteronomy 4:20 , ὑμᾶς ἔλαβεν ὁ θεὸς … εἶναι αὐτῷ λαὸν ἔγκληρον : ib. Deuteronomy 9:29 ; Deu 32:9; Deuteronomy 3 Kings 8:51, al. Flatt cites from Philo (qu. ref.?), ᾧ προσκεκλήρωνται , διότι τοῦ σύμπαντος ἀνθρώπων γένους ἀπενεμήθη οἵα τις ἀπαρχὴ τῷ ποιητῇ κ . πατρί . Olsh. calls this ‘the realization  in time of the ἐκλογὴ ἐν χριστῷ spoken of before,’ viz. by God taking to Himself a people out of all nations for an inheritance first in type and germ in the O. T., then fully and spiritually in the N. T. This interpretation will be further substantiated by the note on Eph 1:12 below), having been  predestined (why mention this again?  Harl. maintains that it here applies to the Jews only, and refers to their selection (according to him to  possess the inheritance) by God: but this cannot be, because as remarked above, ἡμᾶς , which first brings up the difference, does not occur yet. The true answer to the question lies in this, that here first the Apostle comes to the idea of the universal Church, the whole Israel of God, and therefore here brings forward again that fore-ordination which he had indeed hinted at generally in Ephesians 1:5 , but which properly belonged to Israel, and is accordingly predicated of the Israel of the Church)  according to (in pursuance of)  the purpose (repeated again (see above) from Ephesians 1:9 : cf. also ch. Eph 3:11 )  of Him who works (energizes; but especially in and among material previously given, as here, in His material creation, and in the spirits of all flesh, also His creation)  all things (not to be restricted, as Grot., to the matter here in hand, but universally predicated)  according to the counsel of His will (the βουλή here answers to the εὐδοκία Ephesians 1:5 , the definite shape which the will assumes when decided to action implying in this case the union of sovereign will with infinite wisdom),