 5 .]  Having predestined us (subordinate to the ἐξελέξατο : see Romans 8:29-30 , where the steps are thus laid down in succession; οὓς προέγνω , καὶ προώρισεν οὓς προώρισεν , τούτους καὶ ἐκάλεσεν . Now the ἐκλογή must answer in this rank to the προέγνω , and precede the προώρισεν . Stier remarks well, “In God, indeed, all is one; but for our anthropomorphic way of speaking and treating, which is necessary to us, there follows on His first decree to adopt and to sanctify, the nearer decision, how and by what this shall be brought about, because it  could only be thus brought about.” προ , as Pelagius (in Harless), “ad eos refertur qui antea non fuerunt, et priusquam fierent, de his cogitatum est et postea substiterunt”)  unto adoption (so that we should become His sons, in the blessed sense of being reconciled to Him and having a place in His spiritual family, should have the remission of our sins, the pledge of the Spirit, the assurance of the inheritance)  through Jesus Christ (THE SON of God, in and by whom, elementally and instrumentally, our adoption consists, cf. Romans 8:29 , προώρισεν συμμόρφους τῆς εἰκόνος τ . υἱοῦ αὐτοῦ , εἰς τὸ εἶναι αὐτὸν πρωτότοκον ἐν πολλοῖς ἀδελφοῖς )  to Him (the Father: see Colossians 1:20 , δι ʼ αὐτοῦ (Christ) ἀποκαταλλάξαι τὰ πάντα εἰς αὐτόν (the Father). So Thdrt., all., Harl., Olsh., Meyer, Stier: and rightly, for the Son could not be in this sentence the  terminus ultimus (the whole reference being to the work and purpose of the Father); and had this been intended, as Harl. remarks, we must have had καὶ εἰς αὐτόν . De W., who, after Anselm, Tho.-Aq., Castal., all., refers it to the Son, fails to answer this objection of Harl.’s. But now arise two questions: (1) the meaning. Does it merely represent ἑαυτῷ , a dativus commodi? So Grot., al., but it cannot be, after the insertion of the  special διὰ Ἰ . χ ., that the sentence should again return to the general purpose. It seems much better, to join it with διὰ Ἰ . χ . as in Colossians 1:20 , above: and so Harl., but too indefinitely, taking it only as a phrase common with the Apostle and not giving its full import. As in Colossians 1:20 , the εἰς αὐτόν , though thus intimately connected with δι ʼ αὐτοῦ , depends on ἀποκαταλλάξαι , so here it must depend on υἱοθεσίαν , and its import must be ‘  to (  into )  Himself ,’ i.e. so that we should be partakers of the divine nature: cf. 2 Peter 1:4 . (2) Should we read αὐτόν or αὑτόν ? It will depend on whether we refer this clause, from διὰ to κατά , to the Father as its subject, or consider it as a continuation of the Apostle’s thanksgiving. And the latter is much the most likely; for had the former been the case, we should probably have had, instead of διὰ Ἰησ . χριστοῦ , διὰ τοῦ υἱοῦ αὐτοῦ Ἰ . χρ ., so that reference to the Father might still be kept up. I decide therefore for αὐτόν , as Thdrt. certainly read, or his remark, τὸ δὲ εἰς αὐτόν , τὸν πατέρα λέγει , would have been needless. And so Erasm., Wetst., Lachm., Harl., Olsh., Meyer. Then αὐτοῦ in Eph 1:6 naturally takes it up again)  according to (in pursuance of)  the good pleasure (it is disputed whether εὐδοκία has here merely this general meaning of  beneplacitum , or that of  benevolentia . Harl. (see also Ellicott) examines thoroughly the use of the word by the LXX, and decides in favour of the  latter , alleging especially, that a mere assertion of doctrine would be out of place in an ascription of thanksgiving. But surely this is a most unfortunate position. The facts on which doctrines rest are here the very subjects of the Apostle’s thanksgiving: and the strict parallels of Matthew 11:26 , Luke 10:21 , should have kept him from adducing it. Granting, as we must,  both senses to εὐδοκεῖν and εὐδοκία , the context must in each case determine which is meant. And its testimony here is clear. It is, as De W. remarks, not in προωρισμένοι , but in προορίσας , that the object, to which εὐδοκία refers, is to be sought: and the subsequent recurrences to the same idea in Eph 1:9 and Eph 1:11 point out that it is not the Father’s  benevolentia , but His  beneplacitum , which is in the Apostle’s mind. And so Meyer, De W., Stier, and Ellic. This  beneplacitum WAS  benevolentia , Ephesians 1:6 ; but that does not affect the question. See, besides Harl., a long note in Fritz. on Romans 2:0 . p. 369)  of His will ,