 13 .] What is the construction? Have we but one sentence, ἐν ᾧ … ἐσφραγίσθητε , the two participial clauses being parallel, and both belonging to the verb? so the ff., Beng., De W., Ellic., (by whom the view is well defended and explained,) &c. But this seems to me impossible, from the arrangement. It would require the omission of the second ἐν ᾧ , or the placing of the καὶ ὑμεῖς after ἀκούσαντες . As the sentence now stands, the second ἐν ᾧ καί must begin a new sentence, and surely cannot be the mere rhetorical repetition of the first. This being so, we must understand some verb to complete ἐν ᾧ καὶ ὑμεῖς . Nothing can be more usual or more simple than to supply ἐστέ : nothing commoner than ἐν χριστῷ εἶναι : nothing better suited to the context than, after putting forward the Jewish believers, to turn to the Gentiles, ‘Ye also have your part in Christ our prominence does not exclude you.’ Some supply ἠλπίκατε (Erasm.-ver., Calv., Est., al.), some ἐκληρώθητε (Erasm.-par., Harl., Olsh., al.); but the other is far simpler; and I cannot see how it deserves the charge which Ellicott brings against it, of being “a statement singularly frigid and out of harmony with the linked and ever-rising character of the context.” It is quite accounted for as above, as forming a link in the context, whose character is well thus described.  In whom are ye also (ye Gentile believers)  since ye heard (from the time when.… Their  hearing was the  terminus a quo )  the word of the truth (the word whose character and contents are the truth of God: “quasi extra ipsum nulla esset proprie Veritas,” Calv.: see reff. This word is the instrument of the new birth, James 1:18 . See Colossians 1:5 , and, above all, Joh 17:17 ), (viz.)  the Gospel of your salvation (the Gospel whose contents, whose good tidings are your salvation: not a genitive of apposition, as Harl., cf. the expressions εὐαγγ . τῆς χάριτος τ . θεοῦ , Acts 20:24 , τῆς εἰρήνης , ch. Ephesians 6:15 , τ . βασιλείας , Matthew 9:35 , Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , Mar 1:1 );  in whom (belongs to  Christ , as the former ἐν ᾧ not to λόγον nor to εὐαγγέλιον , nor is ἐν ᾧ to be taken with πιστεύσαντες , see below: but with ἐσφραγίσθητε in whom ye not only are, but were sealed. The ἐν ᾧ καὶ … ἐσφραγίσθητε answers exactly to ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἐκληρώθημεν above; πιστεύσαντες not being by this construction rendered superfluous (Mey.); see below)  also (belongs to πιστεύσαντες ἐσφραγίσθητε , not to either word alone)  on your believing (  terminus a quo , as ἀκούσαντες above. Not to be taken with ἐν ᾧ (as = εἰς ὅν , an usage unknown to St. Paul), for see Acts 19:2 , εἰ πνεῦμα ἅγ . ἐλάβετε  πιστεύσαντες ; ‘did ye receive the Holy Ghost when ye believed?’ and Romans 13:11 , νῦν … ἐγγύτερον ἡμῶν ἡ σωτηρία ἢ ὅτε  ἐπιστεύσαμεν : see also 1 Corinthians 3:5 ; 1 Corinthians 15:2 ; 1 Corinthians 15:11 ; Hebrews 4:3 . This use of the aorist marks the time when the act of belief first took place and it must naturally therefore stand absolutely)  ye were sealed (the fact followed on baptism, which was administered on belief in Christ. See the key-passage, Acts 19:1-6 .
	 πιστεύσαντες is, and is not, contemporaneous with  ἐσφραγίσθητε : it is not, inasmuch as in strict accuracy, faith preceded baptism, and baptism preceded the gift of the Spirit: but it is, inasmuch as on looking back over a man’s course, the period of the commencement of his faith includes all its accidents and accompaniments. See Ellic.’s note. The figure of  sealing is so simple and obvious, that it is perhaps mere antiquarian pedantry, with Schöttgen, Grot., and Wetst., to seek for an explanation of it in Gentile practices of branding with the names of their deities, or even in circumcision itself. The sealing was objective, making manifest to others ( ὥστε εἶναι δῆλον , ὅτι θεοῦ ἐστε λάχος κ . κλῆρος , Thl.; so Chr., al.): see John 3:33 ; Revelation 7:3 , but also subjective, an approval and substantiation of their faith ( τὴν βεβαίωσιν ἐδέξασθε , Theod. Mops.), see Rom 8:16 ; 2 Corinthians 1:22 ; 1 John 3:24 b)  by the spirit of the promise (i.e. who was ἡ ἐπαγγελία τοῦ πατρός , Luke 24:49 ; Acts 1:4 ; Galatians 3:14 ; Galatians 3:22 ; and I therefore insert the article. This, and not the other alternative, that the Spirit confirms God’s promises to us, is the true rendering: He was the promise of the O. T. as well as of the N. T.: as Chr.: δύο εἰσὶν ἐπαγγελίαι , μία μὲν διὰ τῶν προφητῶν , ἑτέρα δὲ ἀπὸ τοῦ υἱοῦ . To unite together both alternatives as Stier does, weakens the force of the reference of ἐπαγγελίας back to God, so necessary to the context. The fact, that the Spirit is  to us the Spirit of promise, is abundantly expressed in the following clause),  the Holy One (I have preferred giving the ἁγίῳ separately, feeling with Meyer that there is an emphatic pathos in it which should not he lost in the usual prefix, ‘the Holy Spirit.’ The Spirit with whom He sealed you is even  His own Holy Spirit what grace, and mercy, and love, is here!)  which (if the ὅς of the rec. be retained, it is not for a moment to be referred to Christ, nor to be insisted on as agreeing with the understood gender of the personal πνεῦμα , but as so very often, a relative agreeing in gender with the subject ( ἀῤῥαβών ) of the relative clause: see ch. Eph 3:18 reff. and many more examples in Brüder)  is the (not ‘an’)  earnest (“the word signifies the first instalment paid as a pledge that the rest will follow. It is used by the Greek orators, and by the earlier Latin writers, especially Plautus and Terence. A. Gellius [xvii. 2] speaks of it as a word considered in his time [A.D. 120 50] to be vulgar, and superseded by ‘arra,’ which is the substitute for it in later Latinity. It is remarkable that the same word עֵרָבוֹן is used in the same sense in Hebrew, Genesis 38:17-18 , from עֵרַב to  mix or  exchange , and thence to  pledge , as Jeremiah 30:21 ; Nehemiah 5:3 . It was therefore probably derived by the Greeks from the language of Phenician traders, as  tariff, cargo , are derived, in the English and other modern languages, from Spanish traders.” Stanley, on 2 Corinthians 1:22 . And so here-the Spirit is the ἀπαρχή , Romans 8:23 , the μέρος τοῦ παντός , as Chrys., or πρόδομα , as Hesych.: the pledge and assurer to us of τὰ ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ χαρισθέντα ἡμῖν , 1 Corinthians 2:12 , which eye hath not seen, &c.)  of our inheritance (here the first person comes in again, and not without reason. The inheritance (see above on ἐκληρώθημεν , which involved the converse idea) belongs to both Jew and Gentile to all who are the children of Abraham by faith, Gal 3:28-29 ), for (‘in order to,’ not ‘  until ,’ as E. V.; nor in ch. Ephesians 4:30 : nor does εἰς belong to ὅ ἐστιν …, but to ἐσφραγίσθητε . These two final clauses express the great purpose of all not any mere intermediate matter nor can the Holy Spirit be said to be any such intermediate gift)  the full redemption (  ἀπολ  . is often used by the Apostle in this sense, e.g. ch. Ephesians 4:30 ; Romans 8:23 , of the full and exhaustive accomplishment of that which the word imports)  of His purchased possession (the sense of  περιποίησις has been much disputed, and many ungrammatical and illogical renderings of the words given. A full discussion may be seen in Harless’s note. The senses to be avoided are (1) the nonsensical  antiptosis , that ἀπολ . τ . περιπ . = περιποίησιν τῆς ἀπολυτρώσεως : (2) the equally absurd hendiadys, taking τ . περιποιήσεως for τὴν περιποιηθεῖσαν , which fits neither the true sense of εἰς , nor the context: (3) the taking περιποιήσεως as  active in meaning ‘redemptio qua contingat certa vitæ possession Bucer. But this it could not convey to the Apostle’s readers, unless constructed with some substantive to indicate such a meaning, as in 1 Thessalonians 5:9 , where see note. A variety of this is proposed by Grot. ‘rescuing,’ i.e. salvation and defended by Hebrews 10:39 , where περιποίησις ψυχῆς is opposed to ἀπώλεια . But besides that there the genitive ψυχῆς fixes the meaning, the article τῆς here, in my view, is an insuperable objection. (4) the taking περιπ , in a  passive sense, as  res acquisita making it therefore = κληρονομία , and giving to ἀπολύτρωσις the sense of  entire bestowal , which it cannot have. It remains then, that we seek some technical meaning of περιποίησις , since the obvious etymological ones fail. And such a meaning is found by considering its uses in the O. T. It, and its cognate word περίειμι , are found applied to the people of God, in the sense of a people whom he preserves for Himself as His possession. So Exodus 19:5 , ἔσεσθέ μοι λαὸς  περιούσιος ἀπὸ πάντων τῶν ἐθνῶν , Deuteronomy 7:6 ; Deuteronomy 14:2 ; Deuteronomy 26:18 ; Ps. 134:4, τὸν Ἰακὼβ ἐξελέξατο ἑαυτῷ ὁ κύριος , Ἰσραὴλ εἰς  περιουσιασμὸν ἑαυτῷ Isaiah 43:21 , λαόν μου ὃν  περιεποιησάμην τὰς ἀρετάς μου διηγεῖσθαι , Malachi 3:17 , ἔσονταί μοι , λέγει κύριος παντοκρ ., εἰς ἡμέραν , ἣν ἐγὼ ποιῶ , εἰς  περιποίησιν , κ . αἱρετιῶ αὐτοὺς … κ . τ . λ . In ref. 2 Chron. we have the wider meaning of a  remnant generally. The above sense as applied to the people of the Lord, was adopted by the N. T. writers: e.g. St. Paul, Acts 20:28 , τὴν ἐκκλησίαν τ . θεοῦ , ἣν  περιεποιήσατο διὰ τ . αἵματος τ . ἰδίου , St. Peter, 1 Peter 2:9 , ὑμεῖς … λαὸς εἰς  περιποίησιν . And such seems to be the meaning here: though no other case can be alleged in which the word stands so absolutely. We must suppose, that it would explain itself to the readers, from their familiarity with O. T. expressions, or with the Apostle’s own use of it. This view is taken by the Syr., Œc., Erasm., Calv., Grot., and most Commentators, also by De Wette, Harless, Olsh., Meyer, Stier, Ellic. Stier endeavours, as so often, to unite the meanings regarding God, and ourselves, for that we in being God’s possession, reserved for survivorship to others, do, in the root of the word, thus survive, are thus saved: and undoubtedly this is so, but is not the leading idea)  for the praise of His glory (as before, Ephesians 1:6 : but as Stier well remarks, χάριτος does not appear here, grace having  done its work .  αὐτοῦ is the Father: cf. Ephesians 1:17 , ὁ πατὴρ τῆς δόξης . This, the thorough and final redemption of the Church which He hath acquired to Himself, is the greatest triumph of His glory: as Grot. well says, ‘Plus aliquanto est in voce περιποιήσεως quam in voce κλήρου quam antea habuimus. κλῆρος , sors, jus proprium perpetuumque significat: περιποίησις , acquisitio, et hoc, et modum acquirendi gravem et laboriosum. Solemus autem plurimi ea facere quæ magno nobis constant’). See the typico-historical connexion of this wonderful passage with the patriarchal, legal, and prophetic periods, unfolded in Stier, i. pp. 129 136. I would not be understood to subscribe to all there advanced: but though his parallelism sometimes borders on the fanciful, the connexion is too striking to be altogether set aside by the real student of Scripture.
	(B) Ephesians 1:15-23 .]  The IDEA OF THE CHURCH  carried forward, in the form of a prayer for the Ephesians, in which the fulfilment of the Father’s counsel through the Son and by the Spirit, in His people, is set forth, as consisting in the KNOWLEDGE  of the hope of His calling, of the riches of His promise, and the power which He exercises on His saints as first wrought by Him in Christ, whom He has made Head over all to the Church .