 6 .]  to (with a view to, as the purpose of the predestination)  the praise (by men and angels all that can praise)  of the glory of His grace (beware of the miserable hendiadys, ‘  His glorious grace ,’ by which all the richness and depth of meaning are lost. The end, God’s end, in our predestination to adoption, is, that the glory, glorious nature, brightness and majesty, and kindliness and beauty, of His grace might be an object of men and angels’ praise: both as it is in HIM, ineffable and infinite, and exemplified in  us , its objects; see below, Ephesians 1:12 . “Owing to the defining genitive, the article (before δόξης ) is not indispensable: see Winer, edn. 6, § 19. 2, b: compare Madvig, Synt. § 10. 2.” Ellic.)  which (there is some difficulty in deciding between the readings, ἐν ᾗ , and ἧς . The former would be the most naturally substituted for an attraction found difficult: and the existence of ᾗ , as a reading, seems to point this way. The latter, on the other hand, might perhaps be written by a transcriber carelessly, χάριτος having just preceded. But I own this does not seem to me very probable. A relative following a substantive, is as often in a different case, as in the same: and there could be no temptation to a transcriber to write ἧς here, which could hardly occur at all unless by attraction, a construction to which transcribers certainly were not prone. I therefore, with Lachm., Mey., Rück., al., adopt ἧς . Considerations of the exigencies of the sense, alleged by Harl., al., do not come into play unless where external authorities are balanced (which  is the case here), and probabilities of alteration also (which  is not )  He bestowed upon us (the meaning of χαριτόω is disputed. The double meaning of χάρις ,  favour, grace bestowed , and  that which ensures favour , viz.  grace inherent, beauty , has been supposed to give a double meaning to the verb also, to  confer grace , and to  render gracious , or  beautiful , or  acceptable . And this latter sense is adopted, here and in Luke 1:28 (where see note), by many, e.g. by Chrys., τουτέστιν , οὐ μόνον ἁμαρτημάτων ἀπήλλαξεν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐπεράστους ἐποίησε , Erasm., Luth., all. But the meaning of χάρις , on which this is founded, does not seem to occur in the N. T., certainly not in St. Paul. And χαριτόω , both here and in I. c., according to the analogy of such verbs, will be ‘to bestow grace.’ Another reason for this sense is the indefinite aorist, referring to an act of God once past in Christ, not to an abiding state which He has brought about in us. This, as usual, has been almost universally overlooked, and the perfect sense given. Another still is, the requirement of the context. Harl. well remarks, that, according to the sense ‘  bestowed grace ,’ Eph 1:7 is the natural answer to the question, ‘  How hath He bestowed grace?’ whereas, on the other rendering, it has only a mediate connexion with this verse. Stier would unite both meanings; but surely this is impossible. The becoming χαρίεντες may be a  consequence of being κεχαριτωμένοι , but must be quite independent of its verbal meaning. Conyb. remarks that it may be literally rendered ‘  His favour, wherewith He favoured us :’ but ‘  favour ’ would not reach deep enough for the sense)  in (see above on ἐν χριστῷ , Ephesians 1:3 . Christ is our Head and including Representative)  the Beloved (i.e. Christ: = υἱὸς τῆς ἀγάπης αὐτοῦ , Colossians 1:13 . He is God’s ἠγαπημένος κατ ʼ ἐξοχήν , cf. Matthew 3:17 ; Joh 3:16 ; 1Jn 4:9-11 ).