Woe. These woes are not noted by Matthew. Have received [απεχετε] . In Matthew 6:5, Matthew 6:16, the Rev. has properly changed "they have their reward" to "they have received." The verb, compounded of ajpo, off or from, and ecw, to have, literally means to have nothing left to desire. Thus in Philippians 4:18, when Paul says, "I have all things [απεχω παντα] ," he does not mean merely an acknowledgment of the receipt of the Church 's gift, but that he is fully furnished. "I have all things to the full." Consolation [παρακλησις] . From para, to the side of, and kalew, to call or summon. Literally, a calling to one's side to help; and therefore entreaty, passing on into the sense of exhortation, and thence into that of consolatory exhortation; and so coming round to mean that which one is summoned to give to a suppliant - consolation. Thus it embodies the call for help, and the response to the call. Its use corresponds with that of the kindred verb parakalew, to exhort or console. In its original sense of calling for aid the noun appears in the New Testament only in 2 Corinthians 8:4 : with much entreaty. The verb appears frequently in this sense, rendered beseech, pray (Matthew 8:34; Matthew 14:36; Mark 1:40; Mark 5:12, etc.). In the sense of consolation or comfort the noun occurs, in Luke 2:25; Luke 6:24; 2 Corinthians 1:3; 2 Corinthians 7:4; Philippians 1:7. The verb, in Matthew 2:18; Matthew 5:4; Luke 16:25; 2 Corinthians 1:4. In some instances, however, the meaning wavers between console and exhort. In the sense of exhortation or counsel, the noun may be found in Acts 2:40; Acts 11:23; Acts 14:22; Romans 12:8; Titus 2:15. Neither the noun nor the verb appear in the writings of John, but the kindred word paraklhtov, the Paraclete, Comforter, or Advocate, is peculiar to him. On this word, see on John 14:16. It should be noted, however, that the word comfort goes deeper than its popular conception of soothing. It is from the later Latin confortare, to make strong. Thus Wycliffe renders Luke 1:80, "the child waxed, and was comforted in spirit" (A. V., waxed strong); and Tyndale, Luke 22:43, "there appeared an angel from heaven comforting him" (A. V., strengthening). The comfort which Christ gives is not always soothing. The Holy Spirit, the Comforter, is to convince of sin and of judgment. Underlying the word is the sense of a wise counsel or admonition which rouses and braces the moral nature and encourages and strengthens it to do and to endure. When, therefore, Christ says "they that mourn shall be comforted," he speaks in recognition of the fact that all sorrow is the outcome of sin, and that true comfort is given, not only in pardon for the past, but in strength to fight and resist and overcome sin. The atmosphere of the word, in short, is not the atmosphere of the sick chamber, but the tonic breath of the open world, of moral struggle and victory; the atmosphere for him that climbs and toils and fights.