 43.   ἀμήν σοι λέγω  … ] The Lord surpasses his prayer in the answer; the ἀμήν σοι λέγω ,  σήμερον  , is the reply to the uncertain  ὅταν of the thief.
	 σήμερον ]  this day:  before the close of this natural day . The attempt to join it with σοὶ λέγω , considering that it not only violates common sense, but destroys the force of our Lord’s promise, is surely something worse than silly: see below.
	 μετ  ʼ   ἐμοῦ ἔσῃ can bear no other meaning than  thou shalt be with Me, in the ordinary sense of the words, ‘I shall be in Paradise, and thou with Me.’
	 ἐν τῷ παρ  . ] On these words rests the whole exegesis of the saying.  What is this PARADISE? The  word is used of the  garden of Eden by the LXX, Genesis 2:8 , &c., and subsequently became, in the Jewish theology, the name for that part of Hades, the abode of the dead, where the souls of the righteous await the resurrection. It was also the name for a supernal or heavenly abode, see reff. N.T. The  former of these is, I believe, here primarily to be understood; but only as  introductory, and that immediately, to the latter . By the death of Christ only was  Paradise first opened, in the  true sense of the word . He Himself, when speaking of Lazarus (ch. Luk 16:22 ), does not place him in Paradise, but in Abraham’s bosom in that place which the Jews  called Paradise, but by an anticipation which our Lord did not sanction. I believe the matter to have been thus. Our Lord spoke (as Grotius has remarked) to the thief so as He knew the thief would understand Him; but He spoke with a fuller and more blessed meaning than he could understand then. For  that day, on that very evening , was ‘Paradise’ truly ‘regained’ opened by the death of Christ. We know (1 Peter 3:18-19 , where see note; Luk 4:6 ) that our Lord went down into the depths of death, announced His triumph (for His death was His triumph) to the imprisoned spirits, and in that moment for change of  state , to the  disembodied , is all that  change of place implies they perhaps were in the Paradise of God, in the blessed heavenly place, implied by the word, 2 Corinthians 12:0 . That this is not  fulness of glory as yet, is evident; for the glorified  body is not yet joined to their spirits, they are not yet perfect ( Heb 11:40 ); but it is a degree of bliss compared to which their former degree was but as imprisonment.
	This work of the Lord I believe to have been accomplished  on the instant of His death , and the penitent to have followed Him at  his death some little time after into the Paradise of God. That our Lord  returned to take his glorified Body, was in accordance with His design, and He became thereby the  first-fruits of the holy dead , who shall like Him put on the body of the resurrection, and be translated from disembodied and imperfect bliss in the Paradise of God, to the perfection of glorified humanity in His glory, and with Him,  not in Paradise , but  at God’s right hand .