 34. ] Spoken apparently  during the act of the crucifixion , or immediately that the crosses were set up. Now first, in the fullest sense, from the wounds in His Hands and Feet, is His Blood shed, εἰς  ἄφεσιν ἁμαρτιῶν ( Mat 26:28 ), and He inaugurates His intercessional office by a prayer for His murderers,  ἄφες αὐτοῖς . This also is a fulfilment of Scripture, Isaiah 53:12 ; where the contents of our Luk 23:33-34 are remarkably pointed out.
	His  teaching ended at Luke 23:31 . His  High-Priesthood is now begun. His first three sayings on the Cross are  for others: see Luke 23:43 : John 19:26-27 .
	 πάτερ ] He is the  Son of God , and He speaks in the fulness of this covenant relation. ἐγὼ ᾔδειν ὅτι πάντοτέ μου ἀκούεις : it is not merely  a prayer but  the prayer of the Great Intercessor, which is always heard. Notice that though on the Cross, there is no alienation, no wrath of condemnation, between the Father and the Son.
	 ἄφες αὐτοῖς  who are here intended? Doubtless, first and directly,  the four soldiers , whose work it had been to crucify Him. The  ποιοῦσιν points directly at this: and it is surely a mistake to suppose that they  wanted no forgiveness , because they were merely  doing their duty . Stier remarks, “This is only a misleading fallacy, for they were sinners even as others, and their obedient and unsuspecting performance of their duty was not without a sinful pleasure in doing it, or at all events formed part of their entire standing as sinners, included in that  sin of the world , to which the Lord here ascribes His Crucifixion” (vi. 403, edn. 2). But not only to  them , but to them as the representatives of that sin of the world, does this prayer apply. The nominative to  ποιοῦσιν is οἱ ἄνθρωποι  mankind , the Jewish nation, as the next moving agent in His death, but all of us, inasmuch as for our sins He was bruised.
	 οὐ γὰρ οἴδασιν τί ποιοῦσιν  , primarily, as before, spoken of the  soldiers , then of the  council , who delivered Him up, see John 11:49 , ὑμεῖς  οὐκ οἴδατε οὐδέν , then of  all , whose sin is from lack of knowledge of the truth, of  what sin is , and what it  has done even the crucifixion of the Lord. But certainly from this intercession is excluded  that one sin strikingly brought out by the passage thus cited as committed by him who said it, viz. Caiaphas, and hinted at again by our Lord, Joh 19:11 and perhaps also by the awful answer Matthew 26:64 , σὺ  εἶπας ‘thou  saidst it’ viz. in prophecy, John 11:49 ; see also Matthew 26:25 , and on the sin alluded to, Matthew 12:31 ; 1 John 5:16 .
	Observe that between the two members of this prayer lies the work of the Spirit leading to repentance the prayer that they may have their eyes opened, and  know what they have done: which is the necessary subjective condition of forgiveness of sins, see 2 Timothy 2:25-26 .