Galatians 1:16.  To reveal  depends on ‘pleased,’ not on ‘called.’
	 Within me,  in my inmost soul and consciousness. The external manifestation of the exalted Redeemer from heaven on the way to Damascus was accompanied by an inner illumination.
	 That I might preach him among the Gentiles.  The conversion of Paul coincided with his call to the apostleship (Acts 26:16-18), but the latter was also newly revealed or confirmed to him in a vision at Jerusalem (Acts 22:17; Acts 22:21). He usually addressed himself first to the Jews, but this was only the natural and divinely appointed bridge to the mission among the Gentiles. The converted Jews and proselytes of the gate who attended the synagogue worship formed the nucleus of his congregations.
	 Immediately I conferred not with  (or  , made no communication to, held no counsel with)  flesh and blood. ‘Immediately’ (or, ‘forthwith,’ ‘straightway’) properly belongs to ‘I went away’ (Galatians 1:17), the negative clause being interposed; or it may be connected with the whole sentence as expressing a single thought: ‘Forthwith, instead of consulting with flesh and blood, and going up to the older Apostles in Jerusalem, I departed to Arabia.’ When God calls we must obey at once without asking anybody’s advice. ‘Flesh and blood’ is a Hebrew term for  man  with the accessory idea of weakness or frailty (comp. Matthew 16:17; Ephesians 6:12; Hebrews 2:14). Paul means here not his sinful nature which rebelled against the divine grace, but other weak men; for his object is to prove his entire independence of human instruction and counsel. Ananias did no more than baptize him and lay his hands on him (Acts 9:15-19).
	According to Acts 9:20, Paul spent ‘  some  days’ at Damascus and preached ‘immediately’ after his conversion to the Jews in the synagogue; but this was probably only an open confession of his faith in the Messiahship of Jesus. He did not enter upon the active duties of the apostleship till three years later. After his return from Arabia he preached in Damascus more fully and provoked the opposition of the Jews which compelled him to leave; Acts 9:23 (after ‘  many  days’); comp. 2 Corinthians 11:32. It is not necessary, therefore, to assume that Luke’s ‘immediately’ is an error of chronology.
	