Verse 1 Corinthians 16:13. Watch ye — You have many enemies; be continually on your guard; be always circumspect:-1. Watch against evil;2. Watch for opportunities to receive good;3. Watch for opportunities to do good;4. Watch over each other in love;5. Watch, that none may draw you aside from the belief and unity of the Gospel.Stand fast in the faith — Hold in conscientious credence what you have already received as the truth of God; for it is the Gospel by which ye shall be saved, and by which ye are now put into a state of salvation: see 1 Corinthians 15:1; 1 Corinthians 15:2.Quit you like men — Be not like children tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine; let your understanding receive the truth; let your judgment determine on the absolute necessity of retaining it; and give up life rather than give up the testimony of God.Be strong. — Put forth all the vigour and energy which God has given you in maintaining and propagating the truth, and your spiritual strength will increase by usage. The terms in this verse are all military: Watch ye, γρηγορειτε, watch, and be continually on your guard, lest you be surprised by your enemies; keep your scouts out, and all your sentinels at their posts, lest your enemies steal a march upon you. See that the place you are in be properly defended; and that each be alert to perform his duty.Stand fast in the faith - Στηκετε εν τῃ πιστει·. Keep in your ranks; do not be disorderly; be determined to keep your ranks unbroken; keep close together. On your unity your preservation depends; if the enemy succeed in breaking your ranks, and dividing one part of this sacred army from another, your rout will be inevitable.Quit yourselves like men - Ανδριζεσθε· When you are attacked, do not flinch; maintain your ground; resist; press forward; strike home; keep compact; conquer.Be strong - Κραταιουαθε. If one company or division be opposed by too great a force of the enemy, strengthen that division, and maintain your position; if an attack is to be made on any part or intrenchment of the foe, summon up all your courage, sustain each other; fear not, for fear will enervate you. Your cause is good; it is the faith, the religion of Jesus; he is your Captain in the field; and, should you even die in the contest, the victory is yours.