 1. ]  The general duty of a reconciling and uncontroversial spirit towards the weak in faith . The  δέ binds this on to the  general exhortations to mutual charity in ch. 13: q. d. ‘in the particular case of the weak in faith,’ &c.: but also implies a contrast, which seems to be, in allusion to the Christian perfection enjoined in the preceding verses, ‘but do not let your own realization of your state as children of light make you intolerant of short-coming and infirmity in others.’
	 ἀσθ ., see reff.: the particular weakness consisted in a want of broad and independent principle, and a consequent bondage to prejudices.
	 πίστις therefore is used in a general sense, to indicate the moral soundness conferred by faith, the whole character of the Christian’s conscience and practice, resting on faith.  τῇ , better  the faith , than ‘  his faith:’ ‘  weak in his (subj.) faith’ would be opposed to ‘  strong in his (subj.) faith, ‘  his faith ,’ remaining in substance the same: whereas here the (subj.)  faith itself is weak, and ‘weak in the faith’ = holding THE FAITH imperfectly, i.e. not being able to receive the faith in its strength, so as to be above such prejudices.
	 προσλαμβ .] ‘  give him your hand ,’ as Syr. (Thol.): ‘count him one of you:’ opposed to rejecting or discouraging him.
	 μὴ εἰς ]  but not with a view to : ‘do not adopt him as a brother, in order then to begin’ …
	 διακρίς  .   διαλ .]  discernments of thoughts , lit.: i.e.  disputes in order to settle the points on which he has scruples .’ In both the reff., διάκρισις has the meaning of ‘  discernment of ,’ ‘the power of distinguishing between.’ And διαλογισμοί in the N. T. implies (ordinarily in a bad sense), ‘  thoughts :’ what kind of thoughts, the context must determine. Here, evidently,  those scruples in him , in which his weakness consists, and  those more enlightened views in you , by which you would fain remove his scruples. Do not let your association of him among you be  with a view to settle these disputes . The above ordinary meanings of the words seem to satisfy the sense, and to agree better with εἰς than ‘ad altercationes disputationum,’ as Beza, or ‘ad certamina cogitationum,’ as Estius: and are adopted by most of the ancient and modern Commentators.