Rom 14:1 to Romans 15:13 .] ON THE CONDUCT TO BE PURSUED TOWARDS WEAK AND SCRUPULOUS BRETHREN. There is some doubt who the ἀσθενοῦντες τῇ πίστει were, of whom the Apostle here treats; whether they were  ascetics , or  Judaizers . Some habits mentioned, as e.g. the abstinence from  all meats , and from  wine , seem to indicate the former: whereas the  observation of days , and the use of such expressions as κοινόν [ Rom 14:14 ], and again the argument of ch. Romans 15:7-13 , as plainly point to the latter. The difficulty may be solved by a proper combination of the two views. The over-scrupulous Jew  became an ascetic by compulsion . He was afraid of pollution by eating meats sacrificed or wine poured to idols: or even by being brought into contact, in foreign countries, with casual and undiscoverable uncleanness, which in his own land he knew the articles offered for food would be sure not to have incurred. He therefore abstained from  all prepared food , and confined himself to that which he could trace from natural growth to his own use. We have examples of this in Daniel (Daniel 1:0 ), Tobit ( Tob 1:10-11 ), [and in] some Jewish priests mentioned by Josephus, Life, § 3, who having been sent prisoners to Rome, οὐκ ἐξελάθοντο τῆς εἰς τὸ θεῖον εὐσεβείας , διετρέφοντο δὲ σύκοις καὶ καρύοις . And Tholuck refers to the Mishna as containing precepts to this effect. All difficulty then is removed, by supposing that of these over-scrupulous Jews some had become converts to the gospel, and with neither the obstinacy of legal Judaizers, nor the pride of ascetics (for these are not hinted at here), but in  weakness of faith , and the scruples of an over-tender conscience, retained their habits of abstinence and observation of days. On this account the Apostle characterizes and treats them mildly: not with the severity which he employs towards the Colossian Judaizing ascetics and those mentioned in 1 Timothy 4:1 ff.
	The question treated in 1 Corinthians 8:0 was somewhat different: there it was, concerning meat  actually offered to an idol. In 1 Corinthians 10:25-27 , he touches the same question as here, and decides against the stricter view. See the whole matter discussed in Tholuck’s Comm. in loc., De Wette’s Handbuch, and Stuart’s Introd. to this chap. in his commentary.