 5. ]  One man (the weak)  esteems (selects for honour, κρίνει ἀξίαν τιμῆς ) (  one )  day above (reff.) (another)  day; another (the strong)  esteems ( ἀξίαν τιμῆς )  every day. Let each be fully satisfied in his own mind . It is an interesting question, what indication is here found of the observance or non-observance of a day of obligation in the apostolic times. The Apostle  decides nothing ; leaving  every man’s own mind to guide him in the point. He classes the observance or non-observance of particular days, with the eating or abstaining from particular meats. In both cases, he is concerned with things which he evidently treats as of  absolute indifference in themselves . Now the question is, supposing the divine obligation of one day in seven to have been recognized by him  in any form , could he have thus spoken? The obvious inference from his strain of arguing is, that he  knew of no such obligation , but believed  all times and days to be , to the Christian strong in faith, ALIKE. I do not see how the passage can be otherwise understood. If any one day in the week were invested with the sacred character of the Sabbath, it would have been  wholly impossible for the Apostle to commend or uphold the man who judged all days worthy of equal honour, who as in Rom 14:6 paid  no regard to the (any) day. He must have visited him with his strongest disapprobation, as violating a command of God.  I therefore infer, that sabbatical obligation to keep any day, whether seventh or first, was not recognized in apostolic times . It must be carefully remembered, that this inference does not concern the question of the observance of  the Lord’s Day as an institution of the Christian Church, analogous to the ancient Sabbath, binding on us from considerations of  humanity and  religious expediency , and  by the rules of that branch of the Church in which Providence has placed us , but not in any way inheriting the divinely-appointed obligation of the other, or the strict prohibitions by which its sanctity was defended. The reply commonly furnished to these considerations, viz. that the Apostle was speaking here only of  Jewish festivals, and therefore cannot refer to Christian ones, is a quibble of the poorest kind: its assertors themselves distinctly maintaining the obligation of one such Jewish festival on Christians. What I maintain is, that had the Apostle believed as they do, he could not by any possibility have written thus. Besides, in the face of  πᾶσαν ἡμέραν , the assertion is altogether unfounded.