42. went up—"were wont to
	go." Though males only were required to go up to Jerusalem at
	the three annual festivals ( :-), devout women, when family duties permitted, went also,
	as did Hannah (1 Samuel 1:7), and, as
	we here see, the mother of Jesus. 
	when twelve years old—At
	this age every Jewish boy was styled "a son of the law,"
	being put under a course of instruction and trained to fasting and
	attendance on public worship, besides being set to learn a trade. At
	this age accordingly our Lord is taken up for the first time to
	Jerusalem, at the passover season, the chief of the three annual
	festivals. But oh, with what thoughts and feelings must this Youth
	have gone up! Long ere He beheld it, He had doubtless "loved the
	habitation of God's house and the place where His honor dwelt"
	(Psalms 26:8), a love nourished, we
	may be sure, by that "word hid in His heart," with which in
	afterlife He showed so perfect a familiarity. As the time for His
	first visit approached, could one's ear have caught the breathings of
	His young soul, he might have heard Him whispering, "As the hart
	panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after Thee, O God.
	The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of
	Jacob. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go unto the house of
	the Lord. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem!"
	(Psalms 42:1; Psalms 87:2;
	Psalms 122:1; Psalms 122:2).
	On catching the first view of "the city of their solemnities,"
	and high above all in it, "the place of God's rest," we
	hear Him saying to Himself, "Beautiful for situation, the joy of
	the whole earth is Mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of
	the great King: Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God doth
	shine" (Psalms 48:2; Psalms 50:2).
	Of His feelings or actions during all the eight days of the feast not
	a word is said. As a devout child, in company with its parents, He
	would go through the services, keeping His thoughts to Himself. But
	methinks I hear Him, after the sublime services of that feast, saying
	to Himself, "He brought me to the banqueting house, and his
	banner over me was love. I sat down under his shadow with great
	delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste" (Song of Solomon 2:3;
	Song of Solomon 2:4).