22, 24. her purification—Though
	the most and best copies read "their," it was the mother
	only who needed purifying from the legal uncleanness of childbearing.
	"The days" of this purification for a male child were forty
	in all (Leviticus 12:2; Leviticus 12:4),
	on the expiry of which the mother was required to offer a lamb for a
	burnt offering, and a turtle dove or a young pigeon for a sin
	offering. If she could not afford a lamb, the mother had to bring
	another turtle dove or young pigeon; and, if even this was beyond her
	means, then a portion of fine flour, but without the usual fragrant
	accompaniments of oil and frankincense, as it represented a sin
	offering (Leviticus 12:6-8;
	Leviticus 5:7-11). From the
	intermediate offering of "a pair of turtle doves or two young
	pigeons," we gather that Joseph and the Virgin were in poor
	circumstances (2 Corinthians 8:9), though
	not in abject poverty. Being a first-born male, they "bring him
	to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord." All such had been
	claimed as "holy to the Lord," or set apart to sacred uses,
	in memory of the deliverance of the first-born of Israel from
	destruction in Egypt, through the sprinkling of blood (2 Corinthians 8:9- :). In lieu of these, however, one whole tribe, that of Levi,
	was accepted, and set apart to occupations exclusively sacred (2 Corinthians 8:9- :); and whereas there were two hundred seventy-three fewer
	Levites than first-born of all Israel on the first reckoning, each of
	these first-born was to be redeemed by the payment of five shekels,
	yet not without being "presented (or brought) unto the
	Lord," in token of His rightful claim to them and their
	service (Numbers 3:44-47; Numbers 18:15;
	Numbers 18:16). It was in obedience to
	this "law of Moses," that the Virgin presented her babe
	unto the Lord, "in the east gate of the court called Nicanor's
	Gate, where she herself would be sprinkled by the priest with the
	blood of her sacrifice" [LIGHTFOOT].
	By that Babe, in due time, we were to be redeemed, "not with
	corruptible things as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of
	Christ" (1 Peter 1:18; 1 Peter 1:19),
	and the consuming of the mother's burnt offering, and the sprinkling
	of her with the blood of her sin offering, were to find their abiding
	realization in the "living sacrifice" of the Christian
	mother herself, in the fulness of a "heart sprinkled from an
	evil conscience," by "the blood which cleanseth from all
	sin."