When I call to remembrance [υπομνησιν λαβων] . The object of carin ecw ver. 3. Lit. having received a reminding. The phrases N. T.. o. Upomnhsiv reminding (but sometimes intransitive, remembrance), only here, 2 Peter 1:13; 2 Peter 3:1. In LXX three times. As distinguished from ajnamnhsiv remembrance (1 Corinthians 11:24, 1 Corinthians 11:25) it signifies a reminding or being reminded by another; while ajnamnhsiv is a recalling by one's self. Unfeigned faith that is in thee [της εν σοι ανυποκριτου πιστεως] . See on 1 Timothy 1:5. For the peculiar collocation of the Greek words, comp. Acts 17:28; Romans 1:12; Ephesians 1:15. The writer's thought is probably not confined to Christian faith, but has in view the continuity of Judaism and Christianity. In verse 3 he speaks of serving God from his forefathers. In Acts 24:14 Paul is represented as saying that even as a Christian he serves the God of his fathers, believing all things contained in the law and the prophets. Dwelt [ενωκησεν] . Paul uses the verb with sin, the divine Spirit, God, the word of Christ, but nowhere with faith. The phrase faith dwells in, N. T. o. According to Paul, Christians are or stand in faith; but faith is not represented as dwelling in them. Christ dwells in the heart through faith (Ephesians 3:17). First [πρωτον] . With reference to Timothy, and with a comparative sense, as Matthew 5:24; Matthew 7:5; Mark 3:27; 1 Thessalonians 4:16, etc. This is shown by the last clause of the verse. The writer merely means that faith had already dwelt in Timothy's grandmother and mother before it did in him. How much farther back his believing ancestry went he does not say. Comp. Acts 16:1. Grandmother [μαμμη] . N. T. Once in LXX, 4 Macc. 16 9. Later Greek. The correct classical word is thqh. See Aristoph. Ach. 49; Plato, Repub. 461 D. From the emphasis upon Timothy's receiving his training from his Jewish mother, it has been inferred that his father died early. That he was the child of a mixed marriage appears from Acts 16:1 I am persuaded [πεπεισμαι] . The verb in Pastorals only here and verse 2 Timothy 1:12Often in Paul.