 7 .]  and rescued (the contrast, the deliverance of the righteous, is here brought out at more length. This contrast is wanting in Jude, where only the punitive dealings of God are treated)  righteous Lot (  δίκαιον , as repeating the δικαιοσύνη of 2 Peter 2:5 ; see also again, 2Pe 2:8 )  distressed (  καταπονέω , properly to  wear down or tire out by toil, as τῇ ἐνδείᾳ τῆς τροφῆς τὴν ἀλκὴν τοῦ θηρίου καταπονεῖν , Diod. iii. 37: Ἡρακλῆς ὁ καταπονούμενος τῷ τῆς Δηϊανείρας χιτῶνι , Pol. xl. 7. 3: hence to  oppress , as in ref. Acts, or  harass beyond bearing as here)  by the behaviour of the lawless (  ἄθεσμοι , “homines nefarii, qui nec jus nec fas curant”)  in licentiousness ( ἐν ἀσελγ . ἀναστροφή is to be taken together, as ἐν ἀσελγ . ἀναστρέφεσθαι ; ἐν ἀσελγ . denoting the character of the behaviour or manner of life):
	 8 ]  Explanation of καταπονούμενον .  For by sight and hearing (these datives belong to ἐβασάνιζεν below, not as vulg., Erasm., al„ ungrammatically, to ὁ δίκαιος , “  adspectu et auditu justus erat ,” nor as Gerh. to ἐγκατοικῶν : nor again are they to be understood of the Sodomites, as Wetstein, “Lotus vultu eorum meretricio conspecto, et audita fama impudicitiæ eorum.…” It was by his own sight and hearing of what went on around him, that he ψυχὴν δικαίαν ἐβασάνιζεν .
	 βλέμμα is more usually of the look of a man from without: so in Demosth. Mid. in Wetst. τῷ σχήματι , τῷ βλέμματι , τῇ φωνῇ , and in numerous other examples in Wetst. The transition from this to the subjective sense is obvious)  the righteous man, dwelling among them, day by day tormented his righteous soul with their lawless deeds (the form of the sentence is peculiar: that being represented as a deliberate act of Lot on himself, which was in fact the impression made on him by the lawlessness around him. The same way of speaking is common among us, when we say that a man “distresses himself” at any occurrence: cf. Isaiah 58:5 , “a day for a man to afflict his soul,” ἡμέραν ταπεινοῦν ἄνθρωπον τὴν ψυχὴν αὐτοῦ . The older expositors have curiously and characteristically missed the right sense: so Œc., πρὸς ζῆλον τῶν ἀσεβῶν αὐτῶν πράξεων ἡμέραν ἐξ ἡμέρας παρακαλούμενον , εἶτα βασανίζοντα τὴν ἑαυτοῦ ψυχὴν διὰ τῆς τούτων ἀποχῆς καὶ ἐγκρατείας (which he further expands afterwards): and similarly Thl.):