 1 .]  Transition to the new subject .  But (contrast to last verse)  there were false prophets also (as well as the true prophets, just spoken of)  among the people (of Israel. These words, more than any that have preceded, define the prophecies spoken of before as O. T. prophecies),  as there shall be among you also (  καί with  ἐν ὑμῖν . On  ἔσονται , Bengel says “et jam esse cœperunt tunc.” It was so, see 2 Peter 2:9 ff.: still the future in ἔσονται is simple, and this first declaration a pure prophecy)  false teachers (teachers of falsehood: cf. ψευδόλογος . In the case of ψευδοπροφῆται , the ψευδο - is ambiguous, whether subjective, pretenders to be prophets when they were not, or objective, prophesiers of false things: cf. for the latter Jeremiah 14:14 , LXX, ψευδῆ οἱ προφῆται προφητεύουσιν …; ib. Jeremiah 23:25; Jeremiah 23:25 , al. fr.),  the which (  οἵτινες , of a class: not simply identifying the individuals)  shall introduce (shall bring in by the side of that teaching which ye have received. There is a hint of secrecy and unobservedness, but not so strong as in E. V. “  shall privily bring in .” It is stronger in the παρεισέδυσαν of Jud 1:4 )  heresies (  αἱρέσεις here rather in the sense in which we now understand the word, new and self-chosen doctrines, alien from the truth: not sects (vulg.), which may be founded, but can hardly be said to be introduced)  of destruction (whose end is destruction, Philippians 3:19 . The expression is not to be resolved as E. V. (after Beza, as usual) by an adjective, “  damnable heresies ,” as it thereby loses its meaning, merely conveying the writer’s own [judgment of] condemnation),  and denying (a remarkable word from St. Peter)  the master (compare τὸν μόνον δεσπότην καὶ κύριον ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦν χριστὸν ἀρνούμενοι , Jud 1:4 )  who bought them (reff. Ne, assertion of universal redemption can be plainer than this. “Ex hoc loco bene colligitur,” says Estius, endeavouring to escape the inference, “Christum redemisse quosdam reprobos, nimirum illos, qui redemptionis ejus secundum aliquos effectus facti sunt participes: cujusmodi erant hi, de quibus Petrus loquitur: utpote per fidem in baptismo regenerati, et peccatorum veniam consecuti, licet postea in veterem peccati servitutem lapsi.… Sed ne hino colligas, ad omnes omnino homines effectum redemptionis extendi.” Calvin passes it without a word. It may be noted that by the use of this particular predication for Christ here, those heresies seem especially to be aimed at, which denied or explained away the virtue of the propitiatory sacrifice of our Lord, by which He has bought us to Himself),  bringing upon themselves (the construction is not very plain. Of the two participial clauses, …  ἀρνούμενοι , and  ἐπάγοντες …, one must be taken as equivalent to a finite verb, corresponding to παρεισάξουσιν above: unless indeed we understand  καί to mean “even,” and make both participial clauses follow παρεισάξουσιν … as epexegetical of it. This, however, would leave the ἐπάγοντες awkwardly pendent, and requiring “  and ” to fill it up, as in E. V. As regards then the alternative before proposed, Huther thinks it most natural to regard ἐπάγοντες as a finite verb: “who, by denying &c., bring on themselves &c.:” Winer, § 45. 6.  a , prefers making both depend on παρεισάξουσιν , regarding them however not as co-ordinate, but ἐπάγοντες as a sequel added to the sentence οἵτινες .… ἀρνούμενοι . I much prefer taking  καί as the simple copula, and regarding ἀρνούμενοι as standing in the place of a finite verb, co-ordinate with παρεισάξουσιν followed, as a consequence, by ἐπάγοντες κ . τ . λ .)  swift (see note on ref., not  speedy , but as Horneius in Huther, “inopinatam et inexspectatam”)  destruction [cf. αἱρέσεις  ἀπωλείας above]: