 13 b,  14 .] These verses most probably, as to construction, form an independent participial sentence, connected by apposition with what precedes. This is better than to consider them as all belonging to ἐπλανήθησαν in 2 Peter 2:15 , which clearly is confined in its reference to its own sentence, or as giving the ground of φθαρήσονται above.  Imagining a pleasure delicate living for a day (the interpretations of  ἐν ἡμέρᾳ have been various. Œc. gives it, τὴν ἀληθῆ κ . ἐπέραστον εὐφροσύνην κ . ἡδονὴν ἐν τῇ καθ ʼ ἡμέραν τιθέμενοι τοῦ λαιμοῦ ἀπολαύσει . And similarly Thl., Beza, al. But this seems inadmissible for ἐν ἡμέρᾳ . Some, as Erasm., Benson, Moras, E. V, al., take it for “  in the daytime ,” as implying absence of all shame; but this would give a very lame and frigid sense, and is inconsistent with τρυφήν , which is not revelling or rioting, but delicate living, which those who practise carry on as much in the daytime as by night, being the habit of their lives. Bede’s [14] explanation is remarkable: he understands ‘voluptas  diei ’ to mean true pleasure, “qua sancti quoque delectantur in Domino,” and “voluptas  noctu ” to be the unlawful pleasure of the ungodly. Then he takes ἡδονὴν τὴν ἐν ἡμέρᾳ together as predicate, understanding, “cum deliciis … vacent …, has tamen ipsi optimas et quasi lucifluas judicent.” Few will accept this, though it is very ingenious. There can be little doubt that the true rendering is as vulg. “voluptatem existimantes diei delicias:” Grot., “in diem, id est ad breve tempus:” Calv., Est., “Felicitatem statuunt in præsentibus deliciis.” And so Corn. a-Lap., De Wette, Huther, al. With this also agrees the article τήν and its position: “that delicate living which is but for a day”),  spots (but σπιλάδες , Jude 1:12 , where see note)  and blemishes (disgraces, disfigurements, causing shame: ἐθέλεις δέ κε μῶμον ἀνάψαι , Od. β . 86),  luxuriating in their deceits (i. e. as explained by Huther, in those things or materials of luxury, which they have fraudulently gotten, the abstract for the concrete. But, granting that interpretation as the words stand, there seems to be considerable doubt and difficulty about both reading and meaning. In Jud 1:12 they stand οὗτοί εἰσιν ἐν ταῖς ἀγάπαις ὑμῶν σπιλάδες συνευωχούμενοι ἀφόβως , instead of, as here, σπῖλοι καὶ μῶμοι ἐντρυφῶντες ἐν ταῖς ἀπάταις αὐτῶν συνευωχούμενοι ὑμῖν . It seems hardly possible to imagine that there has not been some error in reading which has now become inveterate. And to this conclusion tends very much the testimony of C, which reads ἀπάταις in both places, and is thus nearly neutralized here. While therefore reading ἀπάταις , in deference to the weight of MSS, combined with critical principles, I have the strongest suspicion that ἀγάπαις is the original reading. The αὐτῶν is no witness against it, as De Wette thinks: the ἀγάπαι become αὐτῶν by their perversion of them while they συνευωχοῦνται ὑμῖν . And on this supposition, the meaning will be, that in their love-feasts (see on [15] Jude) they find occasion of luxuriating and delicate living, while feasting with you. This view is favoured also by the emphatic position of ἐντρυφῶντες . On the verb, Loesner says, “Philo de Jos. (34, vol. ii. p. 70), Josephum ait epulas quibus fratres exceperit jussisse fieri modicas, quod noluerit ταῖς ἑτέρων ἀτυχίαις ἐντρυφᾷν , inter aliorum penuriam dellciis uti”)  while they feast with you (this at all events refers to the love-feasts, whatever be read above. See on [16] Jude),
	 [14] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [15] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [16] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .