 5 .]  Second historical proof the flood . Wanting in Jude  and spared not the ancient world, but preserved (here first comes in the idea of the preservation of the righteous, which is worked out further in the next verse)  Noah the eighth person (i. e. with seven others: according to the well-known formula, generally found in Greek with αὐτός : so Thucyd. ii. 79, ἐστρατήγει δὲ Ξενοφῶν ὁ Εὐριπίδου τρίτος αὐτός , and passim. But the shorter phrase is not without classic example: e. g. Plato, Legg. iii. p. 695 C, λαβὼν τὴν ἀρχὴν ἕβδομος , and other examples in Winer, § 37. 2: and in Wetstein. The numeral adj. must be taken with Νῶε , not with κήρυκα )  preacher of righteousness (the obvious construction would be, “  as a preacher of righteousness :” so Huther: but we should thus be introducing an element logically extraneous to the context, which treats not of the  purpose why the righteous are preserved, but simply of their preservation. And in these later Epistles, all considerations based on stricter views of the usage of the article before substantives are exceedingly unsafe. The fact, that Noah was thus a preacher of (moral) righteousness to the depravity of his age, is found alluded to in Jos. Antt. i. 3. 1, ὁ Νώεος δέ , τοῖς πραττομένοις ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν δυσχεραίνων καὶ τοῖς βουλεύμασιν ἀηδῶς ἔχων , ἔπειθεν ἐπὶ τὸ κρεῖττον αὐτοὺς τὴν διάνοιαν καὶ τὰς πράξεις μεταφέρειν : Bereschith Rabba xxx. 6, in Wetst. “ κῆρυξ generationis diluvii, id est, Noachus:” al. in De Wette),  bringing (= “  when He brought ,” or, “  and brought :” contemporary with the ἐφύλαξεν above)  the flood (anarthrous, as well known; in the earlier written reff. Matt., Luke, the art. is expressed)  on the world (again anarthrous)  of ungodly men (Dietlein, in his commentary, attaching 2Pe 2:4 to 2 Peter 2:5 , and believing the crime of the angels to be that in Genesis 6:2 (see note on Jud 1:6 ), holds that only one example is furnished by them both, as declaring God’s dealings with the  old world; 2Pe 2:7-8 giving corresponding testimony with regard to the  new . But his reasons, as Huther has shewn, will not hold: seeing that, 1. the sentences are strictly co-ordinate with each other, 2Pe 2:6 ; 2 Peter 2:5 ; 2Pe 2:5 ; 2 Peter 2:4 , all being simply coupled by καί : 2. there is no mention of the  new world at 2 Peter 2:6 , as there is none of the  old at 2 Peter 2:4 . 2 Peter 2:3 . the angels cannot be part of the κόσμος ἀσεβῶν . And Dietlein’s idea, that if we take  three examples, both members of the apodosis 2 Peter 2:9 , will not be represented in 2 Peter 2:4 , proves nothing, because that apodosis answers not to each of 2 Peter 2:4-6 , separately, but to 2Pe 2:4-7 generally: the idea of rescuing the righteous coming in as secondary, by the way. And the repetition of οὐκ ἐφείσατο , 2 Peter 2:4-5 , by which Dietlein tries to strengthen his position, is in fact against him: marking off, as it does, expressly, 2Pe 2:5 from 2 Peter 2:4 , as a second example of God’s unsparing vengeance):