 15 .] The last clauses, from ὀφθαλμούς to τέκνα , have no representatives in Jude. Now again the parallelism begins, cf. Jude 1:11 ; but the sentiment is more expanded here. The construction is altered, and becomes direct and regular, καταλιπόντες … ἐπλανήθησαν .  Which have forsaken the right way (ref.)  and are gone astray (the aor. part. and aor. verb are contemporary: and both require, as so often, to be rendered by our English perfect; the English bare past not involving any present consequence, but rather leaving it to be inferred that the state predicated is over now),  following out (this seems to be all that the ἐξ - implies; see on ch. 2 Peter 1:16 . It is noticeable, that in [17] Jude the expression is ἐξεχύθησαν )  the way of Balaam (  τῇ ὁδῷ , not merely figuratively, the way (of life), but literally, seeing that it was by a  journey that Balaam displeased God: cf. the frequent repetition of the word in Numbers 22:23 , and the words of the angel in ib. Numbers 22:32 , οὐκ ἀστεία  ἡ ὁδός σου ἐναντίον ἐμοῦ ) (  the son )  of Bosor (Grot, supposes Bosor to be a corruption of the name פְּתוֹרָה , “Pethor,” Numbers 22:5 ; Vitringa, Observ. Sacræ, vol. i. pp. 936 f., maintains rightly that τοῦ βοσόρ rather signifies parentage than habitation, and that βοσόρ is a way of writing בְּעוֹר , Beor, owing to a peculiar pronunciation of the ע , which he traces in the formation of  salio from עָלָה , and in the case of other sibilants from aspirates, as  sal from ἅλς ,  septem from ἑπτά ,  sisto from ἵστημι . And he conjectures that, coupled with an intimation that the Galileans gave a softer sound than others to the ע , this may have been connected with the Galilean dialect which betrayed Peter on a memorable occasion, Matthew 26:73 . So far well: but he goes on also to say, that the Apostle had a mystical reason for choosing this form, in allusion to the temptation which Balaam cast before Israel, because בָּשָׂר signifies  flesh , “elegante hoc lusu subinnuens, Bileamum, suadendo voluptatum carnalium exercitium, merito dicendum esse filium βοσόρ , id est, carnis.” It certainly is not beyond possibility that a Hebrew ear may have found such an allusion obvious: but the reference seems here rather to be to Balaam’s attempt to curse Israel, than to his subsequent temptation of them),  who loved the wages of unrighteousness (viz. Which he vainly thought he might get by disobeying the command of God. See Bp. Butler’s masterly sermon on the character of Balaam, in his well-known volume),
	 [17] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .