 17 .]  These are wells without water (in [18] Jude, clouds without water. Œc. understands this, ἐπεικάζει αὐτοὺς πηγαῖς ἀνύδροις , ὡς ἀπολωλεκότας τὸ τῆς ζωῆς ὕδωρ , τουτέστι , τὸ τοῦ κηρύγματος καθαρὸν κ . πότιμον ὕδωρ . But this is going too far into specialities: the comparison, in both Epistles, is simply to that which may be expected to yield water, and yields none. In this case the  πηγή seems to be the spring itself, which ought to send forth water but does not),  and mists ( οὐκ εἴσι , φησί , διαυγεῖς ὥσπερ οἱ ἅγιοι οἱ ὄντες νεφέλαι , ἀλλ ʼ ὀμίχλαι , τουτέστι σκότους καὶ γνόφου μεστοί , ὑπὸ τοῦ πονηροῦ πνεύματος ἐλαυνόμενοι . Comm. in Catena)  driven along by a whirlwind (  λαῖλαψ , according to Aristotle de mundo, is πνεῦμα βίαιον καὶ ἐλούμενον κάτωθεν ἄνω ),  for whom the blackness of darkness is reserved (see [19] Jude. It is obvious that no just charge of inappropriateness can be brought against our passage because this clause occurs in a different connexion from that in Jude. There it is said of wandering stars, here of driven clouds: of each, with equal appropriateness: darkness being predicable of clouds, as well as of stars extinguished).
	 [18] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [19] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .