 10 .]  but chiefly (cf. Jud 1:8 )  those who go after the flesh (more general here than in [9] Jude, where ἑτέρας defines the particular sin. Here, all following after unlawful carnal lusts is meant)  in lust of pollution (lust, hankering after unlawful and polluting use of the flesh. The gen. is not to be resolved into an adjective, “  cupiditas fœda ,” as Wahl),  and despise lordship (so in Jude 1:8 , κυριότητα ἀθετοῦσιν : where see note).  Darers (the construction suddenly alters to a description of the wicked persons who were the object in the former sentence. Cf. ref. and Thucyd. i. 70, where the Corinthians characterize the Athenians as καὶ παρὰ δύναμιν τολμηταί , καὶ παρὰ γνώμην κινδυνευταί ),  self-willed (see note on ref. Tit., where the word is explained. Both these plurals are used as substantives, in apposition with each other and with ‘they,’ the understood subject of the following verb),  they tremble not (  when )  speaking evil of (this participial construction, meaning much the same as an infinitive, is common: see ref. and Acts 5:42 ; Acts 12:16 ; and Winer, § 45. 4.  a )  glories (what is meant by this, is somewhat doubtful: see on [10] Jude. We might take the word here, as there also, in its widest sense, as any dignities or glories, human or divine, were it not for the example there following. The vulg. has a curious rendering here: “sectas ( δόξας ) non metuunt introducere blasphemantes:” whereas in Jude it renders “majestatem autem blasphemant:” on which Estius, “cur autem interpres eandem vocem hic  sectas , apud Judam  majestatem , sun  majestates transtulerit in sententia simili, seu potius eadem, mihi non liquet”);
	 [9] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [10] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .