 11 .]  where (i. e. “in cases where:” nearly =  whereas : so reff., and Thucyd. viii. 96, ὅπου γὰρ .… τοσαύτη ἡ ξυμφορὰ ἐπεγεγένητο , πῶς οὐκ εἰκότως ἠθύμουν )  angels, being greater (  than they )  in strength and might (such is of necessity the meaning, and not the curious and hardly grammatical interpretation of Huther, “angels who are greater in strength and might than the other angels,” as, e. g., the archangel Michael in [11] Jude. This meaning would require ἄγγελοι οἱ ἰσχ . κ . δυν . μείζ . ὄντες . As it is, the  ὄντες carries a slight ratiocinative force with it: “being,” i. e. “though they be:” and the thought is not, as Huther, a lame one, but shews forcibly the unbecomingness of their irreverence, seeing that even angels who are so far above them yet do not bring railing accusations against δόξαι ),  bring not against them (scil, δόξαι : in the interpretation,  bad angels , fallen from their heavenly estate, but regarded here according to their essential condition as sons of glory. Cf. Milton’s “excess of glory obscured,” as descriptive of Satan, an expression probably taken from the study of the original text in this place or in [12] Jude. The vulg. rendering, ‘adversum se,’ is clearly wrong: see below)  before the Lord (“apud Dominum, judicem, eumque præsentem, reveriti, abstinent judicio,” Bengel. It is to me on the whole more probable that the words  παρὰ κυρίῳ should have dropped out, as not occurring in [13] Jude, than that they should have been inserted owing to any idea of a contention in the divine Presence being there intended: for no such intention is apparent there, but rather the contrary)  a railing judgment (= κρίσιν βλασφημίας , Jude 1:9 .  βλάσφημον , in allusion to βλασφημοῦντες above.
	 [11] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [12] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [13] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	As a curiosity in the way of erroneous rendering and more erroneous exegesis founded on it, we may notice the vulg. here: “ubi angeli fortitudine et virtute cum sint majores, non portant adversum se execrabile judicium:” and Lyra’s comment, “  ubi , i. e. in pœna inferni:  angeli , scil. mali:  non portant , i. e. vix sustinent:  execrabile judicium , i. e. pœnam.” Cf. Estius, h. l. and the extraordinary commentary of Feuardentius on this Epistle, in which he derives from this interpretation an argument  à fortiori , “If angels cannot bear their punishment, how much less heretics, Luther, Calvin, Bucer, &c.”).