 4 .]  First historical proof: the punishment of the apostate angels . Cf. Jude 1:6 .  For (connect with the position immediately preceding, οἷς τὸ κρῖμα κ . τ . λ .)  if God spared not angels having sinned (how, is not here specified; but Jude, 2 Peter 2:6 , is more particular: see note there.  ἁμαρτησάντων , anarthrous, is not = τῶν ἁμ ., “that sinned:” but carries a ratiocinative force, giving the reason of οὐκ ἐφείσατο : “for their sin”),  but casting them into hell (the word is no where else found: but its meaning must be plain by analogy. Tartarus is no where else mentioned in the N. T. or LXX: there can be no doubt that it is used as equivalent to γέεννα . It seems best to take the verb absolutely, by itself, and join σειροῖς ζόφου to παρέδωκεν , as is done in E. V. So Huther after Calov., Pott, Wahl, al., against De Wette, Dietlein, al. The aor. participle is contemporary with the aor. verb παρέδωκεν , as in ἀποκριθεὶς εἶπε )  delivered (  them )  over (“  παρέδωκεν is here, as often, used with an implied idea of punishment.” Huther)  to dens (so with the reading in txt:  σειρός , the same as σίρος , or σιῤῥός , properly  a cave where corn is stored , so Demosth. p. 100 ult., ὀλυρῶν τῶν ἐν τοῖς Θρᾳκίοις σιροῖς , also p. 135. 5. The form σειρός is found (as a var. read. in Demosth. also) in Pollux ix. 49; Phot. p. 504. 23; Varro de re rust. i. 57. The word is used for a  wolf’s den , by Longus i. 11. The other reading, σειραῖς , has perhaps come from the δεσμοῖς ἀϊδίοις of [7] Jude, and would seem to suit the sense better: see there)  of darkness (if the reading σειραῖς be retained, the expression is remarkably illustrated by Wis 17:17 , ἁλύσει σκότους ἐδέθησαν : and will probably mean, as there, that darkness itself is the chain, gen. of apposition)  in custody (pres.: “  being kept .” The readings are in great confusion, from the combined influence of [8] Jude, and our 2Pe 2:9 )  unto (with a view to: or merely temporal,  until : but this is not probable here, as the want of μεγάλης ἡμέρας , Jude 1:6 , removes all definite allusion to the  time of the judgment)  judgment:
	 [7] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [8] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .