4, 5. there accompanied him into
	Asia—the province of Asia. 
	Sopater of Berea—The
	true reading, beyond doubt, is, "Sopater [the son] of Pyrrhus of
	Berea." Some think this mention of his father was to distinguish
	him from Sosipater (the same name in fuller form), mentioned in  :-. But that they were the same person seems more probable. 
	of the Thessalonians,
	Aristarchus—(See on  :-). 
	and Secundus—of whom
	nothing else is known. 
	Gaius of Derbe—Though
	the Gaius of Acts 19:29 is said
	to be of "Macedonia," and this one "of Derbe,"
	there is no sufficient reason for supposing them different persons;
	on the contrary, Romans 16:23
	(compare with 3 John 1:1, where there
	is hardly any reason to doubt that the same Gaius is addressed) seems
	to show that though he spent an important part of his Christian life
	away from his native Derbe, he had latterly retired to some place not
	very far from it. 
	and Timotheus—not
	probably of Derbe, as one might suppose from this verse, but of
	Lystra (see on Acts 20:1); both
	being so associated in his early connection with the apostle that the
	mention of the one in the previous clause would recall the other on
	the mention of his name. 
	and of Asia, Tychicus and
	Trophimus—The latter was an Ephesian, and probably the former
	also. They seem to have put themselves, from this time forward, at
	the apostle's disposal, and to the very last been a great comfort to
	him (Ephesians 6:21; Ephesians 6:22;
	Colossians 4:7; Colossians 4:8;
	Acts 21:29; 2 Timothy 4:12;
	2 Timothy 4:20). From the mention of
	the places to which each of these companions belonged, and still more
	the order in which they occur, we are left to conclude that they were
	deputies from their respective churches, charged with taking up and
	bringing on the collection for the poor saints at Jerusalem, first at
	Berea, next at Thessalonica, then at Philippi [HOWSON],
	where we gather that our historian himself rejoined the party
	(from the resumption at Acts 20:5
	of the "us," dropped at Acts 20:5- :), by whom the Philippian collection would naturally be
	brought on.