 35.   ἀπελπίζοντες ] Three renderings have been given (1) the ordinary one, μηδὲν ἀπ ʼ αὐτῶν ἐλπίζοντες , Euthym [58] ; but this meaning of the word is unexampled, though agreeing with the context. (2) ‘  causing no one to despair ,’ i.e. refusing no one (reading μηδέν ʼ: cf. [59] [[60][61] in various readings); so the Sy [62] . renders it. (3) ‘  not despairing ,’ i.e. ‘  without anxiety about the result .’ This last sense of the word is best supported by examples, both from Polybius (e.g. ἀπελπ . τὰ πράγματα , i. 19. 12, τὴν σωτηρίαν , ii. 54. 7, alli [63] . freq., see Index), and the Apocrypha, see reff. But as it is an ἅπαξ λεγόμενον in the N.T., perhaps the force of the context should prevail, and the ordinary interpretation be adopted, as there is nothing in analogy ( ἀπαιτῶ , ἀπολαμβάνω , …) to forbid the meaning; and so Passow gives it in Lexic.
	 [58] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [59] CODEX ZACYNTHIUS. Edited by Tregelles, London, 1861, with the types cast for printing the Codex Alexandrinus. The following is an abridgment of his account of the MS.: “On the 11th of August, 1858, I received a letter from Dr. Paul de Lagarde of Berlin, informing me that a palimpsest MS., hitherto unused, containing a considerable portion of St. Luke’s Gospel, with a Catena, was in the library of the British and Foreign Bible Society. It is noted in the Catalogue, and on the back, ‘24,  Greek Evangelisterium. Parchment .’ In many parts the ancient writing is illegible, except in a very good light. The later writing is a Greek Lectionary from the Four Gospels, and belongs, I suppose, to the thirteenth century. The elder writing must have been part of a volume of large folio size; for the leaves are now folded across, the later writing running the other way. The text is in round full well-formed uncial letters, such as I should have had no difficulty in ascribing to the  sixth century, were it not that the Catena of the same age has the round letters ( ΘΘΟΧ ) so cramped as to make me believe that it belongs to the  eighth century . Besides the ordinary κεφάλαια or τίτλοι , this MS. contains also the same chapters as the Vatican MS., similarly numbered. The only other document in which I have ever seen this  Capitulatio Vaticana is the Vatican Codex itself; nor do I know of its being found elsewhere. Occasionally the same portion of Scripture occurs twice, when accompanied by a different Patristic extract.”
	 [60] Codex Petropolitanus (Tischendorf, N.T. edn. 8). Of the  ninth century . The readings of this MS. were not available [for the sixth Edition] at the beginning of St. Matthew, nor for Luk 1:30 to Luke 8:3 , nor beyond Luke 18:9 . [Def. John 3:5-36 ; Joh 21:22 end supplied by a later hand.]
	 [61] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .
	 [62] The Peschito (or simple) Syriac version. Supposed to have been made as early as the  second century . The text as edited is in a most unsatisfactory state.
	 [63] alli= some cursive mss.
	 υἱοὶ ὑψίστου ] Meyer maintains that this must mean ‘sons of God’ in the sense of partakers of the glory of the Messiah’s Kingdom, but without reference to the state of believers in this life, which last he says is according to the usage of Paul, not of the three first Evangelists. But surely this is sufficiently answered by ὁ πατὴρ ὑμῶν in the next verse, where the actual present sonship to our heavenly Father is a reason why we should imitate Him.