 1.   δευτεροπρώτῳ ] This word presents much difficulty. None of the interpretations have any certainty, as the word is found no where else, and can be only judged of by analogy. (1) It is not altogether clear that the word  ought to be here at all: see var. readd. Schulz supposes it to have arisen from putting together two separate glosses, in the margin of some MSS., one δευτέρῳ , the other πρώτῳ : originally inserted, the first, to distinguish this sabbath from that in ch. Luke 4:31 , the latter, from that in Luke 6:6 . (2) Chrysostom, Hom. xxxix. on Matt., vol. vii. p. 431, says, ὁ δὲ Λουκᾶς φησιν Ἐν σαββάτῳ δευτεροπρώτῳ . τί δέ ἐστιν ,  ἐν δευτεροπρώτῳ  ; ὅταν διπλῆ ἡ ἀργία ᾖ , καὶ τοῦ σαββάτου τοῦ κυρίου , καὶ ἑτέρας ἑορτῆς διαδεχομένης . Paulus and Olsh. also take this interpretation.
	(3) Theophylact understands, a sabbath,  the day before which ( παρασκευή )  had been a Feast-day .
	(4) Isidore of Pelusium, Euthym [53] , and others, think that  the first day of unleavened bread is meant, and is called δευτερόπ ., because it is δευτέρα τοῦ πάσχα , which had been slain on the evening before.
	 [53] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	(5) Scaliger and Petavius interpret it to mean  the sabbath following the second day of the Passover , from which the seven weeks to Pentecost were reckoned. This has been commonly followed; but is liable to the objection that the assumption, σάββ . δευτερόπρ . = σάββ . τῆς ἑβδομάδος δευτεροπρώτου = σάββ . τῆς ἑβδ . πρώτης μετὰ τὴν δευτέραν τῶν ἀζύμων , is an unjustifiable one.
	(6) To omit many other conjectures, I may mention that Wieseler (Chron. Synop. Deuteronomy 4:0 Evv., p. 231 ff.) suggests that it may mean the  first sabbath in the  second of the cycle of seven years, which completed the sabbatical period. He shews, by a passage from the κήρυγμα Πέτρου (Clem. Alex [54] , Strom. vi. 5, p. 760 [55] .), that the Jews did call the first sabbath of the year πρῶτον and that the years were reckoned as the first, second, &c., of the septennial cycle (see a decree of Jul. Cæsar in Jos. Antt. xiv. 10. 6). Thus the first sabbath of the first year would be πρωτόπρωτον or πρῶτον , that of the second δευτερόπρωτον , &c. And according to his chronology, which fixes this in A.U.C. 782, this year  was the second of the sabbatical cycle . If we follow this conjecture, this day was the first sabbath in the month Nisan.
	 [54] Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [55] By these symbols are designated the portions of two ancient MSS., discernible (as also are fragments of Ulphilas’ gothic version) under the later writing of a volume known as the Codex Carolinus in the Ducal Library at Wolfenbüttel. P (GUELPHERBYTANUS A) contains fragments of each of the Gospels. Q (GUELPH. B) fragments of Luke and John. Both are probably of the  sixth century . They were edited by F. A. Knittel in 1762; and, more thoroughly, by Tischendorf in 1860 [1869], Monumenta Sacra, vol. iii. [vi.]
	The point so much insisted on, that this must have been  after the presentation of the first-fruits which took place on the 16th of Nisan, on account of the prohibition in Leviticus 23:14 , is of no weight, as it is very uncertain whether the action mentioned here is included in the prohibition.
	As regards the analogy of the word, δευτεροδεκάτη , sometimes cited from Jerome on Ezekiel 45:0 , is not to the point: for that word represents the fact that “rursus ex ipsis decimis Levitæ, hoc est inferior ministrorum gradus, decimas dabant sacerdotibus:” so that it was not “the  second-tenth ,” as Wordsw., but a tenth of a tenth, a second tithing of a tithe.
	 ψώχ  .   τ  .   χ  . is a detail peculiar to Luke:  rubbing them and blowing away the chaff.