James 4:2.  Ye lust and have not. This verse further describes the origin or genesis of these external strifes. First, then, is the evil desire; then this desire, being ungratified, leads to hatred and envy; and hatred and envy lead to wars and fightings (comp. James 1:15). The objects of desire are worldly blessings the gratification of our sinful interests. This spirit of restless desire was also at this time the national character of the Jews; they were restless under the government of the Romans, and eagerly desired national liberty and the lordship over other nations. These desires were especially fostered by their belief in an earthly Messiah, who should bestow worldly blessings on His followers. This Jewish vice was prevalent among the Jewish Christians, and perhaps the false notion of an earthly Messiah was not eradicated from among them.
	 ye kill; expressive of the bitterness of the hatred that prevailed. If this Epistle were addressed to the Jews generally, these words would receive a literal meaning; but we can hardly suppose that the contentions among the Jewish Christians led to actual bloodshed, although such has often been their result in the history of the Church. The words, then, are to be understood in a modified sense, denoting that bitter hatred which, according to the spirit of the Gospel, is equivalent to murder: ‘Ye kill in spirit.’ ‘He that hateth his brother is a murderer’ (1 John 3:15). Compare with this the words of our Lord: ‘Ye have heard that it has been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment; but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment’ (Matthew 5:21-22). Not the external act, but the internal disposition, the bitter hatred, is described. Strong and vehement expressions are characteristic of the style of St. James.
	 and desire to have; or rather, ‘and envy’ indulge in a resentful and envious spirit toward others.
	 and cannot obtain, namely, that on account of which you indulge in hatred and envy.
	 ye fight and war; the third stage in the genesis of contention.
	 yet; this word is not in the Greek. It is best to put a full stop after ‘war,’ and begin a new clause, showing the reason why their desires were not gratified, either because they asked not, or asked wrongfully.
	 ye have not, because ye asked not. There seems here a reference to our Lord’s declaration: ‘Ask, and it shall be given you.’ And it is also here implied that we are permitted to ask for temporal blessings, only we must not ask wrongly.
	