From a child [απο βρεφους] . Mostly in Luke. o P. Only here in Pastorals. See on 1 Peter 2:2. Comp. Mark 9:21, ejk paidioqen from a child. The holy Scriptures [ιερα γραμματα] . Note particularly the absence of the article. Grammata is used in N. T. in several senses. Of characters of the alphabet (2 Corinthians 3:7; Galatians 6:11) : of a document (Luke 16:6, take thy bill) : of epistles (Acts 28:21) : of the writings of an author collectively (James 5:4 James 5:7) : of learning (Acts 26:24, polla grammatra much learning). In LXX, ejpistamenov grammata knowing how to read (Isaiah 29:11, Isaiah 29:12). The Holy Scriptures are nowhere called iJera grammata in N. T. In LXX, grammata is never used of sacred writings of any kind. Both Josephus and Philo use ta iJera grammata for the O. T. Scriptures. 142 The words here should be rendered sacred learning. The books in the writer's mind were no doubt the Old Testament. Scriptures, in which Timothy, like every Jewish boy, had been instructed; but he does not mean to designate those books as iJera grammata. He means the learning acquired from Scripture by the rabbinic methods, according to which the Old Testament books were carefully searched for meanings hidden in each word and letter, and especially for messianic intimations. Specimens of such learning may be seen here and there in the writings of Paul as 1 Corinthians 9:9 f.; 1 Corinthians 10:1 f.; Galatians 3:16f.; Galatians 4:21 f. In Acts 4:13, the council, having heard Peter's speech, in which he interpreted Psalms 118:22 and Isaiah 28:16 of Christ, at once perceived that Peter and John were ajgrammatoi, not versed in the methods of the schools. Before Agrippa, Paul drew thc doctline of the Resurrection from the Old Testament, whereupon Festus exclaimed, "much learning (polla grammata, thy acquaintanee with the exegesis of the schools) hath made thee made (Acts 26:24). To Agrippa, who was" expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews "(Acts 26:3), the address of Paul, a pulpil of Hillel, was not surprising, although he declared that Paul 's reasoning did not appeal to him. In John 7:15, when Jesus taught in the temple, the. Jews wondered and said : the;" How knoweth this man letters? " That a. Jew should know the Scriptures was not strange The wonder lay in the exegetical skill of one who had not been trained by the literary methods of the time. To make thee wise [σε σοφισαι] . Only hero and 2 Peter 1:16;. See note there on cunningly devised. To give thee understanding of that which lies behind the letter; to enable thee to detect in the Old Testaments. books various hidden allusions to Christ; to draw from the Old Testaments the mystery of messianic salvation, and to interpret the Old Testaments with Christ as the key. This gives significance to the following words through faith which is in Christ, Jesus. Jesus Christ was the key of Scripture, and through faith in him Shripture became a power unto salvation. The false teachers also had their learning but used it in expounding Jewish fables, genealogies, etc. Hence, their expositions, instead of making wise unto salvation, were vain babblings; profane and old wives ' fables (1 Timothy 4:7; 2 Timothy 2:16). Const. through faith, etc., with make wise, not with salvation.