 4 .]  but (q. d. and be not weary of enduring: but)  let endurance have a perfect work ( σκόπει , οὐκ εἶπε τὴν ὑπομονὴν ὁριστικῶς , ὅτι ἔργον τέλειον ἔχει , ἀλλὰ προστακτικῶς , ἐχέτω · οὐ γὰρ προϋποκειμένην ἀρετὴν ἐξαγγέλλει , ἀλλὰ νῦν ἐγγινομένην · ὡς χρὴ γενέσθαι νομοθετεῖ . Œc. In fact, from the repetition of ἔργον from κατεργάζεται , it is much as if he had said ἡ δὲ ὑπομονὴ κατεργαζέσθω σωτηρίαν τέλειον . The allusion seems to be to our Lord’s saying Matthew 24:13 , ὁ δὲ ὑπομείνας εἰς τέλος , οὗτος σωθήσεται . So that the words are to be taken simply and literally;  ὑπομονή as the abstract, endurance, and  ἔργον as the work wrought out (see reff.) by ὑπομονή in its continuance: not as by De Wette after Erasmus (“Tolerantia non habebit laudem absolutam, nisi quemad-modum in malis tolerandis fortis est et alacris, ita in bonis operibus exercendis sibi constet”), Calov., Morus (“Tolerantia adjunctum habeat factum”), Pott (“Perseverantiæ fructus sit perfectum virtutis studium”), al., to be understood as if ὑπομονή were ὁ ὑπομένων , and ἔργον the aggregate of ἔργα . And  τέλειος is not to be understood as = εἰς τέλος ὑπομένων , but in its ordinary sense of ‘perfect,’ fully brought out and accomplished. And as Bengel remarks, “Perfecta est patientia, quæ gaudet”),  that ye may be perfect (for the work of God in a man  is the man. If God’s teaching by patience have had a perfect work in you,  you are perfect: His is a λόγος ἔμφυτος , James 1:21 . And the purpose of that work is, to make as perfect)  and entire (that in which every part is present in its place: so we have ὁλόκληρος καὶ ὑγιής , Plato, Tim. p. 44 C: τὸ βασίλειον ὂν ἐν ὁλοκλήρῳ τῷ γένει , Corp. Inscrip. 353. 26. The word is much used in Philo (see also Athenæus vii. p. 700 and Pollux i. 1 in Wolf here) of sacrifices and sacrificing priests, in a technical sense, of which however there is no trace here),  deficient in nothing (the subjoining a negative corroboration to a positive clause is characteristic of St. James: cf. James 1:5-6 . The expression here is illustrated by Raphel from Polyb. p. 1202, 1. 15, ἐν τῇ πρὸς Ῥωμαίους εὐνοίᾳ παρὰ πολὺ τἀδελφοῦ λειπόμενος . Here however there is no comparison with others, only one implied with that ὁλοκληρία which ought to be their ultimate state).