 2 .]  Think it all joy  (  χαράν , following up  χαίρειν , a characteristic of the style of this Epistle: so ὑπομονήν · ἡ δὲ ὑπομονή , James 1:3 ; λειπόμενοι · εἰ δέ τις λείπεται , James 1:4 f.; διακρινόμενος · ὁ δὲ διακρινόμενος , James 1:6 ; ἀπεἰραστός ἐστι … πειράζει δέ , James 1:13 ; βραδὺς εἰς ὀργήν · ὀργὴ γάρ , James 1:19 f.; τὸν ἔμφυτον λόγον .… γίνεσθε δὲ ποιηταὶ λόγου , James 1:21 f.; τούτου μάταιος ἡ θρησκεία · θρησκεία καθαρὰ κ . τ . λ ., James 1:26 f.; yea, and that when &c.  πᾶσαν , as in reff., not “  all (  of it )  joy ,” eitel Freude, as Luther: but “  all sorts of ,” “  every kind of ,” “  all conceivable ,” “rem revera omnique ex parte lætam,” as Theile, in Huther. Bengel’s idea is good, that ‘all’ is used as applying to all kinds of temptations; transferred from the subject to the predicate),  my brethren (this is the constant address in our Epistle. It betokens community of origin and of faith),  whensoever ye fall into (  περιπίπτειν is used of becoming unexpectedly surrounded by adverse circumstances of any kind: so in reff.: so ὅστις ἂν τοιαύταις ξυμφοραῖς περιπέσῃ , Plato, Legg. ix. p. 877 C: μεγάλοις ἀτυχήμασιν ὑπ ʼ Αἰτωλῶν , καὶ μεγάλαις συμφοραῖς περιπεσόντες , Polyb. iv. 19. 13: περιπεσὼν βιαίοις πληγαῖς , ib. iii. 116. 9. Herodotus also uses the expression, cf. vi. 16, and Thuc. ii. 54)  various temptations (the  πειρασμοί here are not only what we properly call  temptations , but any kind of distresses which happen to us, from without or from within, which in God’s purpose serve as  trials of us: the latter word being, in this its now common general meaning, a word derived from the Christian life. See ref. 1 Pet., which is strictly parallel. Œc. says, after Chrys. (in Catena), τὴν κατὰ θεὸν λύπην καὶ τοὺς πειρασμοὺς τούτους καὶ ἐπαινετοὺς οἶδε καὶ χαρᾶς ἀξίους · δεσμὸς γὰρ οὗτοί εἰσιν ἀῤῥαγής , καὶ αὔξησις ἀγάπης καὶ κατανύξεως . Then, after quoting Sir 2:1 ; John 16:33 ; and Matthew 7:14 , … οὐ γάρ ἐστιν ἐκτὸς γυμνασίων οὔτε κοσμικῶν οὔτε τῶν κατὰ θεὸν στεφάνων ἀξιωθῆναι ):