 ΙΙΑΚΩΒΟΥ ΕΠΙΣΤΟΛΗ
	 1 .] ADDRESS AND GREETING.  James (for all questions who the Author of this Epistle was, see the Prolegomena. I assume here that which I have there endeavoured to establish, that it is “James the Lord’s brother,” the first president or bishop of the church at Jerusalem, an Apostle, but not one of the Twelve),  servant (not necessarily, as Huther, an official appellation; but implying, as he also confesses, devotion to God and  His work alone, irrespectively of self-will or other men’s will. Œc. says, ὑπὲρ πᾶν δὲ κοσμικὸν ἀξίωμα οἱ τοῦ κυρίου ἀπόστολοι τὸ δοῦλοι εἶναι χριστοῦ καλλωπιζόμενοι , τοῦτο γνώρισμα ἑαυτῶν βούλονται ποιεῖσθαι , καὶ λέγοντες , καὶ ἐπιστέλλοντες καὶ διδάσκοντες . Similarly Didymus, and Incert. in Catena)  of God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ (not ‘  of the God and Lord, J. C. ,’ but as Œc., θεοῦ μέν , τοῦ πατρός · κυρίου δέ , τοῦ υἱοῦ . Huther remarks, that in all the addresses of Epistles, the whole name Ἰησοῦς χριστός is given. St. James mentions our Lord only here and ch. Jam 2:1 in this Epistle, and not at all in his speeches in Acts 15:21 Bengel says, “Videri potuisset, si Jesum sæpe appellaret, id ex ambitione facere, cum esset frater Domini. Atque eo minus novit Christum secundum carnem”),  to the twelve tribes (of Israel: nor can there be any reasonable doubt that this Epistle was addressed to Jewish Christians in the first place. Not however to them, as distinguished from Gentile Christians: for the two classes appear to have been not as yet distinct. If the later date of the Epistle be taken (see Prolegg), then the Jewish Christians are addressed as the nucleus and kernel of all Christendom. But to my mind, the former is more probable)  which are in the dispersion (“Legimus, occiso a Judæis B. Stephano, quia facta est in illa die persecutio magna in ecclesia quæ erat Hierosolymis, et omnes dispersi sunt per regiones Judææ et Samariæ, præter Apostolos. His ergo dispersis qui persecutionem passi sunt propter justitiam, mittit Epistolam.” Bede. [1] This is hardly correct; but more probable than De W.’s view that the words are used merely to describe the scattered and distressed state of the Christians, as διασπορά did of the Jews. The most likely reference of διασπορά is to the literal and actual Jewish dispersion, as in reff.: and the Epistle must be considered as addressed, from the head of the mother church in Jerusalem, to the Jewish believers, residing among the dispersed tribes of Israel),  greeting (the formula  χαίρειν is not found in the address of any other apostolical Epistle; but it occurs in the Epistle drawn up under the direction of  James to the Gentile churches in Act 15:23 ).
	 [1] Bede. Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.