 27 .]  Religious service pure and unpolluted (the two adjectives seem merely to bring out the positive and negative sides of purity, as in the two members of the apodosis below)  in the estimation of (reff. and Romans 2:13 ; Gal 3:11 )  Him who is our God and Father (thus with the  τῷ : if without it, ‘(our) God and Father.’ That the paternal relation here ascribed to God must be understood as referring to  us , is evident, were it only from the reference which Chrys. (in Caten.) recognizes: οὐκ εἶπεν ἐὰν νηστεύητε , ὅμοιοι ἐστὲ τῷ πατρὶ ὑμῶν · οὐδὲν γὰρ τούτων παρὰ θεὸν (- ῷ ?) οὐδὲ ἐργάζεταί τι τούτων ὁ θεός · ἀλλὰ τί ; γίνεσθε οἰκτίρμονες ὡς ὁ πατὴρ ὑμῶν ὁ ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς · τοῦτο θεοῦ ἔργον · ἐὰν οὖν τοῦτο μὴ ἔχῃς , τί ἔχεις ; ἔλεον θέλω , φησί , καὶ οὐ θυσίαν )  is (consists in)  this, to visit (“Visitare in necessitate est, porrigere manum ad eos allevandos qui premuntur”)  orphans (perhaps in reference to πατρί which has preceded: so Psalms 67:5 , God is called ὁ πατὴρ τῶν ὀρφανῶν κ . κριτὴς τῶν χηρῶν )  and widows in their affliction (shews at the same time the reason for the ἐπισκέπτεσθαι , and the object of it),  to (there is no copula. These asyndeta are found in our Epistle especially, where various particulars are enumerated which go to make up a whole, or apply to the description of one thing: as e. g. James 1:19 , ch. James 3:6 ; cf. also ch. Jam 5:5-6 )  preserve himself (the reflexive  ἑαυτόν refers back as its subject to τις , as if it were ἐπισκέπτεσθαί τινα ὀρφανοὺς κ . τ . λ .)  unspotted from (belongs to τηρεῖν , see ref. Prov. and cf. προσέχειν ἀπό , Matthew 16:6 ; Mat 16:12 )  the world (  ὁ κόσμος , not merely earthly things as far as they tempt to sin: still less the “indoles qualis plerorumque est improba;” nor again, as Œc., κόσμον ἐνταῦθα τὸν δημώδη καὶ συρφετὸν ὄχλον ἀκουστέον , τὸν κατὰ τὰς ἐπιθυμίας τῆς ἀπάτης αὐτοῦ φθειρόμενον : but, as in ch. James 4:4 ,  the whole earthly creation , separated from God and lying in sin, which, whether considered as consisting in the men who serve it, or the enticements which it holds out to evil lust ( ἐπιθυμία ), is to Christians a source of continual defilement. They, by their new birth unto God, are taken out of the world; but at the same time, by sin still dwelling in them, are ever liable to be enticed and polluted by it: and therefore must keep themselves (cf. 1Ti 6:14 ), for fear of such pollution. This keeping is indeed in the higher sense God’s work: cf. John 17:15 ; but it is also our work, 1 Timothy 5:22 . The Commentators compare Isocr. ad Nicocl. p. 36, ἡγοῦ τοῦτο εἶναι θῦμα κάλλιστον καὶ θεραπείαν μεγίστην , ἐὰν βὲλτιστον καὶ δικαιότατον σεαυτὸν παρέχῃς . Also Psalms 50:8-15 ; 1 Samuel 15:22 ; Psalms 40:7 f.: Sir 35:2 ).