 10 .]  but the rich (not ὁ ἀδελφὸς ὁ πλούσιος , nor is the πλούσιος to be understood any otherwise than in the rest of the Epistle, cf. ch. James 2:6 f.; James 5:1 ff. There are difficulties either way; but on mature consideration I find those on the usual hypothesis, of the πλούσιος  being also a brother , insuperable. For in that case, 1. a most unnatural change in the sense is necessary at ὅτι : ‘Let the rich brother glory in his humiliation, for, or because,  considered merely as a rich man ,’ &c.: so that ὁ πλούσιος is a Christian brother at first, and then a mere rich man in the next clause: 2. such a meaning will not suit οὕτως καὶ ὁ πλούσιος ἐν ταῖς πορείαις αὐτοῦ μαρανθήσεται , which is simply predicated of ὁ πλούσιος , the subject enunciated in ὁ δὲ πλούσιος above, and cannot with any probability be supposed to be said of him merely quoad his riches. Whereas on the other view the difficulties are no more than arise from a confessedly elliptical parallelism. After ὁ δὲ πλούσιος we must supply, not necessarily καυχάσθω , but rather καυχᾶται : ‘Let the ταπεινός glory in his exaltation, whereas the rich man glories in his debasement,’ cf. Philippians 3:19 , ὧν ἡ δόξα ἐν τῇ αἰσχύνῃ αὐτῶν . The above view, as far as πλούσιος is concerned, is adopted by the author of the Comm. on the Lamentations in Jerome’s works (“Quod autem dicit, filiam Edom gaudere et lætari quod pervenerit ad eam calix Domini, per ironiam legendum est, et est illud in epistola Jacobi apostoli.… ‘dives autem in humilitate sua,’ subauditur a superiore glorietur, quod non tamen ad gloriam, sed ad humilitatem ejus et damnationem pertinet”), Bed [3] , Lyra, Thomas Aq., Beza, Wetst., Pott, Hottinger, Huther, al.: but impugned by De Wette, Wiesinger, Stier, al.)  glories (see above)  in his humiliation (cf. ref. Phil.: in that which is in reality his debasement, just as in the other case the lowly Christian is called on to boast in what is in reality his exaltation. Thus, and thus only, the parallelism coheres. On the ordinary view, the ὕψος of the ταπεινός  brother is, that which is really but not apparently his exaltation, whereas the ταπείνωσις of the πλούσιος  brother is that which is apparently but not really his debasement);  because as a flower of the grass (reff.)  he shall pass away .
	 [3] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.