 17 .]  every good gift (  δόσις , properly  the act of giving : but the ideas of the giving and the gift are so convertible, that it as often has the passive meaning: as πρᾶξις , and other similar words. So in ref. Prov., δόσις λάθριος ἀνατρέπει ὀργάς , δώρων δὲ ὁ φειδόμενος θυμὸν ἐγείρει ἰσχυρόν )  and every perfect gift (we cannot express  δόσις and  δώρημα by two words in English. There is a slight climax in δώρημα , as there is in τέλειον compared with ἀγαθή : it brings out the gratuitous and ‘proprio motu’ element in the gift, as is done again by βουληθείς below.  πᾶσα and  πᾶν are taken by Raphel, Bengel, al. in an exclusive sense, “nothing but good gifts and perfect gifts” &c. This is perhaps allowable, but it weakens the force of the sentence and spoils the context, the object of which is to shew, not that God’s gifts are all good, but that all good gifts come from Him. So that πᾶσα and πᾶν are better kept in their ordinary senses, and the stress laid, in each case, on the adjectives, ἀγαθόν and τέλειον )  descendeth from above ( ἄνωθέν ἐστιν καταβαῖνον belong together, not as E. V., Grot., Wolf, al., ἄνωθέν ἐστιν , καταβαῖνον . This is shewn by ἄνωθεν κατερχομένη , ch. James 3:15 .  ἐστιν serves to bring out the essential quality of the gift; is, by its nature, sent down from above. Wies. quotes from Bereschith Rabba, 51. 1, “Dixit R. Chanina, Non est res mala descendens desuper”),  from the Father of the lights (  of heaven ) (it seems now generally agreed that by  τὰ φῶτα here is meant the  heavenly bodies , and by  πατήρ the creator, originator, as in Job 38:28 , τίς ἐστιν ὑετοῦ πατήρ ; Being this, being the Father of those glorious fountains of light, and thus (see below) purer and clearer than they all, it cannot be that He should tempt to evil. Our very life, as renewed in Christ, is of His begetting, and we are a firstfruit of His new world.
	Various meanings have been given to τῶν φώτων spiritual light, Grot.: illumination, with reference to the Urim, Heisen: “luminum spiritualium in regno gratiæ et gloriæ,” Bengel: “omnis perfectionis, bonitatis, sapientiæ et prosperitatis,” Wolf, Benson, al.: “omnis et præstantiæ et bene compositi ordinis,” Calv. As regards the word  φῶτα , we have, Psalms 135:7 ff., τῷ ποιήσαντι φῶτα μεγάλα … τὸν ἥλιον … τὴν σελήνην καὶ τοὺς ἀστέρας κ . τ . λ .: Jeremiah 4:23 , ἐπέβλεψα ἐπὶ τὴν γῆν , καὶ ἰδοὺ οὐθέν , καὶ εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν , καὶ οὐκ ἦν τὰ φῶτα αὐτοῦ . In Genesis 1:14 ; Gen 1:16 they are φωστῆρες ),  with (‘chez,’ ‘apud,’ bei: see reff.)  whom there is (  ἔνι , abbreviation of ἔνεστι : see reff. Not = ἔστι , but carrying the meaning ‘inest,’ ‘there is in Him’)  no change ( πόθεν δέ , says Arrian on Epict. i. 14, p. 62, πρὸς τὴν αὔξηαιν καὶ μείωσιν τῆς σελήνης , καὶ τὴν τοῦ ἡλίου πρόσοδον καὶ ἄφοδον , τοσαύτη παραλλαγὴ καὶ ἐπὶ τὰ ἐναντία μεταβολὴ τῶν ἐπιγείων θεωρεῖται . This sentence confirms what Gebser (in Huther, al.) has observed, that  παραλλαγή never occurs as an astronomical term: seeing it is used in its common sense, even where the heavenly bodies are being spoken of. Besides which, it is not at all probable that St. James should write to the dispersed Jewish Christians in the technical language of astronomy. I take then the word in its ordinary sense, ‘change:’ that uncertainty of degree of light which we see in the material heavenly bodies, but which is not in God their Creator. So in Wetst., we have Theophrastus speaking of a παραλλαγή τις εὐοσμίας καὶ ἀοσμίας : Plato, Rep. vii., of the absurdity of one who looks on the order and symmetry of the heavenly bodies, and νομίζοντα γίνεσθαί τε ταῦτα ἀεὶ ὡσαύτως , κ . οὐδαμῆ οὐδὲν παραλλάττειν σῶμά τε ἔχοντα καὶ ὁρώμενα : Plotinus, Enn. vi. 6. 3, of a παραλλαγὴ ἡμερῶν πρὸς νύκτας : Diogenes Laert. vii. 145 Zen [5] , of the moon eclipsing the sun, καὶ πάλιν παραλλάττουσα )  or shadow (  ἀποσκίασμα , the dark mark of shadow, σκίασμα , the result of σκιάζεσθαι , cast ἀπό , from, any object)  of turning (arising from turning. Here again we must look for a common-sense, not for an astronomical meaning of the word. τροπαὶ ἡλίου are, it is true, the solstices: but they have nothing to do with any darkening of the sun. So that I would take  τροπή in the general sense of  turning , or  revolution , in which the heavens are ever found: by means of which the moon turns her dark side to us, in a constant state of παραλλαγή and τροπῆς ἀποσκίασμα : by means of which the moon is eclipsed by the shadow of the earth, and the sun by the body of the moon, or, if you will, though this is hardly so likely to have been in view, is hidden from us during the night. From all these God, the Father of lights, is free; as 1 John 1:5 , ὁ θεὸς φῶς ἐστιν , καὶ σκοτία ἐν αὐτῷ οὐκ ἔστιν οὐδεμία . It only remains to repudiate altogether, as inadmissible, the meaning given by Œc., the metaphorical acceptation of ἀποσκίασμα , ἀντὶ τοῦ οὐδὲ μέχρις ὑπονοίας τινὸς ὑποβολή , not a shadow of any change. So Hesych. ( ἀλλοιώσεως καὶ φαντασίας ὁμοίωμα ), Wolf, Lösner, Morus, Rosenm., al.).
	 [5] Zeno,  Bp. of Verona , 362 380