 18 .]  The greatest example of this position , that all good and perfect gifts come from Him: mentioned not merely as an example, but as leading on to the following context.  Because He willed it (the aor. part. is, 1. contemporary with the verb: 2. slightly causal, involving the condition of the act which follows. It was of His own mere will, ‘proprio motu,’ and the emphasis is on this word. “Exprimit quod Deus pro suo beneplacito nos genuerit, atque ita sibi fuerit causa. Unde sequitur, naturale esse Deo benefacere.” Calvin)  begat He (  ἀποκύειν or  -  εῖν (see above, Jam 1:15 ), here in the sense  generare , as there  parere . Cf. 1 Peter 1:23 ; 1 John 3:9 . The spiritual birth, not the natural, is meant, as is evident by what follows)  us ( ἡμᾶς , twice repeated, signifies the Writer and his readers, not Christians in general: not especially as  Jewish Christians, Ἰουδαίῳ πρώτῳ , for that is not (see below) the reference here)  with the word of truth (the gen. is one of apposition: cf. John 17:17 , ὁ λόγος ὁ σὸς ἀλήθειά ἐστι . And the word of truth is the gospel, preached, and ἔμφυτος as below: cf. 1 Peter 1:23 , ἀναγεγεννημένοι … διὰ λόγου ζῶντος θεοῦ . The failure of the articles does not alter the sense. It is especially a characteristic of the abrupt sententious style of our Apostle. Cf. ποιηταὶ λόγου , James 1:22 , where λόγος must be ‘the word;’ and indeed passim. Œc. makes λόγος personal: ἵνα μή τις ὑπολάβῃ ὁμοίως ἡμῖν καὶ τὸν υἱὸν ἀποτεκεῖν αὐτόν , καὶ μεθ ʼ ἡμῶν καὶ τὸν υἱὸν γεγεννῆσθαι , ἐπάγει τό , λόγῳ ἀληθείας , πάντα γὰρ κατὰ τὸν θεῖον Ἰωάννην διὰ τοῦ υἱοῦ ἐγένετο : and so Athanasius, Serm. iii. advers. Arianos, vol. ii. p. 483; and Bernard, Serm. ii. ad Fratres (?): which is clearly wrong),  that we should be (aim, but not the primary aim, of the ἀποκυῆσαι . His gracious purpose with regard to  us in particular was, that we should be, &c. His great purpose with regard to  all Christians is not here in question. Hence ἡμᾶς is repeated)  a kind of firstfruit (“  τινα similitudinis est nota, nos quodammodo esse primitias,” Calv. It does not appear to be intended as Bengel, “ ‘  Quædam ’ habet modestiam, nam primitiæ proprie et absolute est Christus.” Rather, I should say, it would point to the early date of our Epistle, in which an idea afterwards so familiar is thus introduced as it were with an apologetic explanation. The figure in  ἀπαρχή is from the appointment of the law by which the firstborn of man, of cattle, of fruits &c., were to be consecrated to God; and the word must be taken with this sacred meaning, not merely as a ‘verbum commune’ indicating priority. The first Christians, to whom St. James is writing, were as firstborn of the great family, dedicated as firstfruits to God. Wiesinger beautifully says, “The thought fully given would be this: they by Regeneration were dedicated as the firstfruits of a sacrificial gift which shall only be completed with the offering up of all κτίσματα ”)  of His creatures (  τὰ κτίσματα αὐτοῦ manifestly extends wider than merely to the great multitude of the regenerated whom no man can number; it embraces all creation, which we know shall partake in the ultimate glorious perfection of the sons of God: cf. Romans 8:20-21 . Obviously, the κτίσματα are not the καινὴ κτίσις , as Grot. and many others). Wiesinger has an important note, shewing from this verse what must be the right understanding of much which follows in this Epistle. “This passage,” he says, “is among those which reveal the depth of Christian knowledge in which the practical and moral exhortations of the Writer are grounded: lying as it does expressly ( διό , Jam 1:21 ) at the basis of them. We will here bring together in a few words the teaching of the passage, for the sake of its important bearing on the rest of the Epistle. It teaches us, 1. as a positive supplement to James 1:14-15 , that the life of man must be renewed, from its very root and foundation: 2. it designates this renewal as God’s work, moreover as an imparting of the life of God ( ἀπεκύησε ), as only possible by the working of the Spirit, only on the foundation of the objective fact of our Redemption in Christ, which is the content of the λόγος ἀληθείας : 3. it sets forth this re-generation as an act once for all accomplished ( ἀπεκύησεν , aor.) and distinguishes it from the gradual penetration and sanctification of the individual life by means of this new principle of life imparted in the re-generation: 4. it declares also expressly that the re-generation is a free act of God’s love ( βουληθείς ) not induced by any work of man (Ephesians 2:8-9 ; Tit 3:5 ), so that man is placed by God in his right relation to God, antecedently to all works well-pleasing to God: for this the expression ἀπεκύησεν involves: cf. ἐξελέξατο , ch. James 2:5 , and in so far as this ἀπεκύησεν necessarily implies the justification of the sinner (the δικαιοῦσθαι of St. Paul), it is plain also, that St. James cannot, without contradicting himself, make this δικαιοῦσθαι , in the sense of St. Paul, dependent on the works of faith. 5. λόγος ἀληθείας is specified as the objective medium of re-generation: and herewith we must have πίστις as the appropriating medium on the part of man himself: of the central import of which πίστις in St. James also we have already seen something (James 1:3 ; Jam 1:6 ), and shall see more (ch. James 2:5 ; James 2:14 ff.). 6. Together with this act of re-generation proceeding from God, we have also the high destination of the Christian, which the Apostle gives so significantly and deeply in εἰς τὸ εἶναι κ . τ . λ . And that which God has done to him, is now in the following verses made the foundation of that which the Christian has on his part to do: by which that which we said under (3) and (4) receives fresh confirmation. This passage is one to be remembered, when we wish to know what the Apostle understands by the νόμος τέλειος (James 1:25 ; Jam 2:12 ), and what he means, when (James 2:14 ff.) he deduces δικαιοῦσθαι from the works of faith. As regards the dogmatical use, which some make of this passage, wishing to shew that regeneration is brought about by the word, as distinguished from the Sacrament of Baptism ( Tit 3:5-7 ), we may remark, that seeing that λόγος ἀληθείας designates the gospel, as a whole, without any respect to such distinction, nothing regarding it can be gathered from this passage. The word of the Lord constitutes, we know, the force of the Sacrament also. ‘Accedit verbum ad elementum et fit Sacramentum.’ And is it meant to be inferred that the readers of this Epistle were  not baptized? ”