 25 .]  But he who looked into (here we have the figure mingled with the reality, the comparison being dropped. The aor. participles are continued on from the former construction in James 1:24 . Probably the verb  παρακύψαι here,  to stoop and look in , has reference to a mirror being placed on a table or on the ground, to contemplate which steadily, a man must put his face near to it. But we must not perhaps urge this too strictly: see ref. 1 Pet.: where it is used of looking closely into any thing. It is here the opposite of κατενόησεν , attention bestowed for a time only and then withdrawn. And this opposition is strengthened by καὶ παραμείνας )  the perfect law which is (  the law )  of our (Christian)  liberty (  τὸν νόμον τέλειον , not, the gospel as contrasted with the law, nor the covenant of faith as more perfect than that of legal obedience: but, the rule of life as revealed in the gospel, which is perfect and perfecting, but not in contrast with the former law as being not perfect, and not able to make perfect: that distinction is not in view here: see below. The whole Epistle is founded on this perfect law of Christ, more especially on that declaration of it contained in the sermon on the mount: see Prolegg. And that this law here is meant, the λόγος ἔμφυτος , λόγος ἀληθείας , as it is a rule of conduct, is evident from what follows, where  deeds , and they only, are spoken of. It is the law of our liberty, not as in contrast with a former law of bondage, but as viewed on the side of its being the law of the new life and birth, with all its spontaneous and free development of obedience. Huther remarks, “Ever in the O. T. the sweetness of the law was subject of praise ( Psa 19:8-11 ), but the life-giving power belonged to the law only in an imperfect manner, because the covenant on which it rested, was as yet only one of promise, and not of fulfilment”)  and remains there (remains looking in, does not depart as the other. There is a paronomasia in the παρα - repeated. Schneckenburger tries to give it the sense of ἐμμένειν in Acts 14:22 ; but as Wiesinger remarks, the matter spoken of here is not so much observing the law in act, as observing it in attention not letting it pass out of the thoughts. That leads to action, as below),  being (not,  having become : see above on γίνεσθε , James 1:22 ; the former οὗτος being omitted, this part. carries with it a slightly inferential force: ‘cum sit’)  not a forgetful hearer (the expression  ἀκροατὴς ἐπιλησμονῆς is a Hebraism, the genitive indicating the quality: see below on ch. James 2:4 , κριταὶ διαλογισμῶν πονηρῶν )  but a doer of work (  ἔργον , not sing. for plur. as Grot., “effector eorum operum quæ evangelica lex exigit:” but abstract, of  work , something which brings a result with it),  this man (see on  οὗτος above, Jam 1:23 )  shall be blessed in his doing (cf. Sir 19:20 , ἐν πάσῃ σοφίᾳ ποίησις νόμου . The words imply that even in the act there is blessing:  ἐν not being instrumental, but taken in its proper meaning: the life of obedience is the element wherein the blessedness is found and consists).