 15 .]  then lust having conceived, bringeth forth sin: and (  δέ brings out the new subject)  sin, when completed, bringeth forth death (it has been questioned whether  ἁμαρτία is here in one, or in two senses. De Wette holds that the first ἁμαρτία is the purpose, or inner act, of sin, the  ἀποτελεσθεῖσα carrying this ἁμαρτία out into an act, which act brings forth death, the wages of sin. But this is decidedly wrong. Wiesinger has disputed it, and insisted rightly that the  inner act is the union of the will with the ἐπιθυμία , the  τίκτει denoting extrusion into outward act: then the second ἁμαρτία , which Huther rightly maintains to be, not as Wiesinger, after Calvin, “cursus peccandi completus,” but the sinful act when brought to perfection in all its consequences, in a series of results following on one another and bringing a man under bondage to his sin, being thus perfected, brings forth eternal death. The imagery is throughout consistent. The harlot ἐπιθυμία , ἐξέλκει and δελεάζει the man: the guilty union is committed by the will embracing the temptress: the consequence is that she τίκτει ἁμαρτίαν , sin, in general, of some kind, of that kind to which the temptation inclines: then,  ἡ ἁμαρτία , that particular sin, when grown up and mature, herself ἀποκύει , ‘extrudit,’ as if all along pregnant with it, Death, the final result of sin. So that temptation to sin cannot be from God, while trial is from Him. The one, being δοκίμιον ἡμῶν , κατεργάζεται ὑπομονήν · ἡ δὲ ὑπομονή , ἔργον τέλειον ἔχουσα ,  τὴν ζωήν : the other, being ἐξέλκυσις κ . δέλεαρ arising from ἐπιθυμία , τίκτει ἁμαρτίαν · ἡ δὲ ἁμαρτία ἀποτελεσθεῖσα ἀποκύει  θάνατον . The English reader will not fail to remember Milton’s sublime allegory in Paradise Lost, where Satan, by his own evil lust, brings forth sin: and then by an incestuous union with Sin (which doubtless may be said to lie here also in the background, no cause being assigned for the ἀποκύει ) causes her to bring forth Death. As regards the single expressions,  συλλαβοῦσα τίκτει is a regular LXX formula for וַתַּהַר וַתֵּלֶד : cf. reff. Gen., also Gen 30:17 al. fr.  ἀποκύειν , or ἀποκυεῖν (either is allowable, see Winer, § 15) is found principally in later Greek: Wetst. gives examples from Maximus Tyr., Herodian, Lucian, Phlegon, all with this meaning.
	For  ἀποτελεσθεῖσα , cf. Polyb. ii. 58. 7, τὸ μέγιστον ἀοέβημα κατὰ προαίρεσιν ἀπετέλεσαν ).