 19 .] First, as to the reading. For the external evidence, see the digest. It is of a kind which can hardly be rejected. And all internal considerations make the same way. It is hardly possible that the simple and obvious ὥστε should have been altered into the difficult ἴστε . Whether the connexion with the last verse was plain, is not a consideration which usually entered into the minds of transcribers. They were much more likely to attempt to establish some connexion, plain or not, especially when so unusual a word as ἴστε admitted of change to so obvious an one as ὥστε . Next, comes the question how  ἵστε is to be taken, whether imperatively or indicatively. If the former, the sense will be, ‘  Know, my beloved brethren ’ (either what has preceded or what follows: if the latter, then the introduction of ἔστω κ . τ . λ . with a δέ gives it as a generally received saying, possibly as a reference to ref. Sir., γίνου ταχὺς ἐν ἀκροάσει σου , καὶ ἐν μακροθυμίᾳ φθέγγου ἀπόκρισιν : if the former, the imperative sense seems hardly applicable). On the whole I much prefer the indicative sense, for which we have a precedent in reff. Heb. and Eph., the only other places where the form occurs in the N. T. And taking this indicative sense, I refer the word not to what follows, but to what precedes, making it an appeal to their knowledge of the momentous facts which he has just stated: You are well aware of this: but (i. e. and having this knowledge &c.). Thus we bring ἴστε here into strict accord with its meaning in those two other places, where it is, “Ye are aware;” appealing to a well-known fact.  Ye know it, my beloved brethren: but (consequently)  let every man he swift to hear (the word of truth which has so great power for good and for life: we need not actually  supply τὸν λόγον τῆς ἀληθείας as Est., al., De W., Wiesinger do: the verb is absolute and general, having only  reference to the word of truth),  slow to speak (  λαλῆσαι need not refer only to the caution μὴ πολλοὶ διδάσκαλοι γίνεσθε , ch. James 3:1 , though it includes that, being general. The meaning is, be eager to listen, not eager to discourse: the former may lead to implanting or strengthening the new life, the latter to wrath and suddenness of temper, so often found in the wake of swift rejoinder and ready chattering. Œc. reminds us that τὶς ἀνὴρ θεῖος φησίν , ὁ λαλήσας μετέγνω πολλάκις , ὁ δὲ σιωπήσας οὐδέποτε ),  slow to wrath (Bengel and others interpret  ὀργή , “ira sive impatientia erga Deum,” and so nearly Calvin: but the reference is more general, as the precept is. The quick speaker is the quick kindler. See below. We have in Philo de Confus. Ling. § 12, vol. i. p. 412, βραδὺς ὠφελῆσαι , ταχὺς βλάψαι : but the words occur in contrast only here in the N. T.):