 11 .]  For (justification of ὡς ἄνθος χόρτου παρελεύσεται )  the sun arose (it is given in the form of a tale, a narration of what happened and ever does happen: see Isaiah 40:7 , from which the whole is adapted)  with the heat (or, the hot east wind, the קָדִים : this interpretation seems approved by ref. Jonah, καὶ ἐγένετο ἅμα τῷ ἀνατεῖλαι τὸν ἥλιον , καὶ προσέταξεν ὁ θεὸς ( κύριος ὁ θ . Α ) πνεύματι καύσωνι (- νος ΑΒ [4] ): see Winer, Realw. art. “Wind.” But  καύσων in ref. Matt. and Isaiah 49:10 , is evidently only  heat : and considering, 1. the relation between that Gospel and St. James , , , 2. that the LXX, when the  Kadim is intended, almost always add ὁ ἄνεμος or τὸ πνεῦμα , I prefer the other meaning, the arid scorching which accompanies the increasing power of the sun),  and dried up the grass, and the flower thereof fell away (all from Isaiah),  and the beauty of its appearance (so  πρόσωπον in reff., the external appearance of any thing)  perished: thus also shall the rich man (the same as was spoken of James 1:10 ; not ὁ πλοῦτος αὐτοῦ , but the πλούσιος himself)  wither (reff.: the verb continues the similitude)  in his ways (cf. ref. Psalm and Proverbs 2:8 . Luther’s translation, in seiner Habe, rests on the reading πορίαις ).
	 [4] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .