 6 .]  But let him ask in faith (persuasion that God can and will give: cf. Matthew 21:22 , πάντα ὅσα ἐὰν αἰτήσητε ἐν τῇ προσευχῇ πιστεύοντες λήμψεσθε : and cf. εὐχή τῆς πίστεως , ch. Jam 5:15 ),  nothing (  μηδέν is adverbial, as in Mark 5:26 ; Luke 4:35 ; Acts 4:21 ; Acts 10:20 , μηδὲν διακρινόμενος as here: so also Act 11:12 al. In all these places it will of course admit of being understood ‘in nothing,’ the accus. of reference: but it is simpler to believe that it had got past this and become an adverb)  doubting (cf. Matthew 21:21 , from which this is evidently taken, ἐὰν ἔχητε πίστιν καὶ μὴ διακριθῆτε , &c. Huther says well, “ διακρίνεσθαι is not = ἀπιστεῖν ( Luk 24:11 ), but includes in it the essential character of ἀπιστία : while πίστις says ‘Yes,’ and ἀπιστία ‘No,’ διακρίνεσθαι is the union of ‘Yes’ and ‘No,’ but so that ‘No’ is the weightier: it is that inward giving way which leans not to πίστις , but to ἀπιστία . The deep-lying ground of it is  pride , and so far Thl. is right in saying, διακρινόμενος δὲ ὁ μεθ ʼ ὑπεροψίας αἰτῶν · ὑβριστὴς ὁμολογουμένως ὁ διακρινόμενος : whereas Œc. in the words, λέγων ἐν σεαυτῷ ὅτι πῶς δύναμαι αἰτῆσαί τι παρὰ τοῦ κυρίου καὶ λαβεῖν , ἡμαρτηκὼς τοσαῦτα εἰς αὐτόν , brings out a point which belongs not to διακρίνεσθαι , but to a yet weak faith”):  for he that doubteth is like (reff.)  a wave of the sea (reff. The verb κλυδωνίζεσθαι occurs Eph 4:14 and Isaiah 57:20 , οἱ ἄδικοι … κλυδωνισθήσονται )  driven by the wind (a word no where else found. The corresponding ἀνεμοῦσθαι occurs in Hippocr., Plato (Tim. p. 83 A), Ælian, Lucian, al. It explains itself)  and tossed about (  ῥιπίζεσθαι , from ῥιπή ( ῥιπαὶ ἀνέμων , Pind. Pyth. ix. 85: Soph. Antig. 137 al.; κυμάτων ἀνέμων τε , Pind. Pyth. iv. 346), to be blown about by wind: so τί δέ , εἰ μὴ πρὸς ἀνέμου ῥιπίζοιτο τὸ ὕδωρ , Philo de Mundo, § 18, vol. ii. p. 620: δῆμος ἄστατον κακόν , καὶ θαλάσσῃ πάνθ ʼ ὅμοιον ὑπ ʼ ἀνέμου ῥιπίζεται , Dio Chrys. Orat. xxxii. p. 368 B. The more usual meaning of the verb (from ῥιπίς ), to kindle ( ῥιπίζεται , κατακαίεται , Hesych.), is not applicable here. The word forms a synonym with ἀνεμίζεσθαι ; and the use of these synonymous expressions so close to one another is again a characteristic of St. James. A good explanation of the figure is quoted by Wiesinger from Heisen: “Modo ad litus fidei speique jactatur, modo in abyssum diffidentiæ revolvitur; modo in sublime tollitur fastus mundani, modo imis arenis miscetur nunc desperationis nunc afflictionis” &c.):