 5 .]  But (q. d. but this perfection and entireness, this defect in nothing, will not be yet attained; and you will find, when you aim at it, that you are lacking in the very first requisite)  if any of you (  εἰ is not “  quandoquidem ,” as Estius, but  εἴ τις is as usual ‘if any,’ and nearly = ὃστις ἄν )  is deficient in (  of , gen. as in ch. Jam 2:15 )  wisdom ( τὸ αἴτιον τοῦ τελείου ἔργου σοφίαν λέγει , Œc. Huther quotes from the Etym. Mag.,  γνῶσις μὲν ἐστὶ τὸ  εἰδέναι τὰ ὄντα ·  σοφία δέ , καὶ τὸ τὰ ὄντα γινώσκειν καὶ τὸ τὰ γνωστὰ πράττειν . For what is meant by wisdom here, see ch. Jam 3:15-17 ),  let him ask (either supply  ‘  it  ,’ or take the verb absolutely, which is better: so E. V., see below)  from God who giveth (the part. is put first because it is that which is to be brought out in the sentence: q. d. ‘from the giver, God.’ Thus asking and giving are put forward as belonging to us and God in the abstract, and we do not want any Object, as τὴν σοφίαν , supplied)  to all men simply (so Romans 12:8 , ὁ μεταδιδούς , ἐν ἁπλότητι : but perhaps ἁπλότης may also signify  liberality . See note on that place. It is not however necessary here to render “  benigne ,” as Bed [2] , Casaubon, al.: nor “  affluenter ,” as Erasm., Grot., Est., al.; nor “  candide ,” “  sincere ,” as Pott, Theile, al.; nor = συντόμιος , καθάπαξ , as Hesychius: but we must interpret by what follows, and understand it of  simply giving , and adding nothing afterwards which may take off from the graciousness of the gift)  and upbraideth not (in what sense is rather doubtful. Many (Morus, Carpzov, Storr, al.) interpret it of sending away with a refusal: but as Huther remarks, though καταισχύνειν may bear this meaning, ὀνειδίζειν is never found so used: certainly not in Sir 20:15 , ἄφρων … ὀλίγα δώσει καὶ πολλὰ ὀνειδίσει . By far the greatest part of Commentators understand it of reproaching by the recounting of benefits bestowed. But this again does not reach the full and general nature of the expression here: nor does it find any justification in that of Demosthenes, p. 316. 10, ὑπομιμνήσκειν τὰς ἰδίας εὐεργεσίας μικροῦ δεῖν ὅμοιόν ἐστι τῷ ὀνειδίζειν : for it is one thing to say that such reminding is almost equivalent to ὀνειδίζειν , and another and a widely different one to use ὀνειδίζειν in this sense, which is never done. The real meaning here is just as in Sir 20:15 above, and in Sir 41:22 , μετὰ τὸ δοῦναι μὴ ὀνείδιζε , viz. upbraiding with any kind of reproaches, as God might well do, so unworthy are we to approach Him with any request. This of course would include that other: but as Semler, “Non tantum significat molestam commemorationem beneficiorum, sed etiam qualemcunque reprehensionem.” So De Wette and Huther),  and it shall be given to him (viz. σοφία , see 3 Kings James 3:9-12 . The whole verse seems to be written in remembrance of Mat 7:7-12 ).
	 [2] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.