16. The people which sat in darkness
	saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow of
	death light is sprung up—The prophetic strain to which these
	words belong commences with the seventh chapter of Isaiah, to which
	the sixth chapter is introductory, and goes down to the end of the
	twelfth chapter, which hymns the spirit of that whole strain of
	prophecy. It belongs to the reign of Ahaz and turns upon the combined
	efforts of the two neighboring kingdoms of Syria and Israel to crush
	Judah. In these critical circumstances Judah and her king were, by
	their ungodliness, provoking the Lord to sell them into the hands of
	their enemies. What, then, is the burden of this prophetic strain, on
	to the passage here quoted? First, Judah shall not, cannot perish,
	because IMMANUEL, the
	Virgin's Son, is to come forth from his loins. Next, one of the
	invaders shall soon perish, and the kingdoms of neither be enlarged.
	Further, while the Lord will be the Sanctuary of such as confide in
	these promises and await their fulfilment, He will drive to
	confusion, darkness, and despair the vast multitude of the nation who
	despised His oracles, and, in their anxiety and distress, betook
	themselves to the lying oracles of the heathen. This carries us down
	to the end of the eighth chapter. At the opening of the ninth chapter
	a sudden light is seen breaking in upon one particular part of the
	country, the part which was to suffer most in these wars and
	devastations—"the land of Zebulun, and the land of Naphtali,
	the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee and the Gentiles."
	The rest of the prophecy stretches over both the Assyrian and the
	Chaldean captivities and terminates in the glorious Messianic
	prophecy of the eleventh chapter and the choral hymn of the twelfth
	chapter. Well, this is the point seized on by our Evangelist. By
	Messiah's taking up His abode in those very regions of Galilee, and
	shedding His glorious light upon them, this prediction, He says, of
	the Evangelical prophet was now fulfilled; and if it was not thus
	fulfilled, we may confidently affirm it was not fulfilled in any age
	of the Jewish ceremony, and has received no fulfilment at all. Even
	the most rationalistic critics have difficulty in explaining it in
	any other way.