 Seeing that his divine power hath granted unto us  (ως ημιν της θειας δυναμεως αυτου δεδωρημενης). Genitive absolute with the causal particle ως and the perfect middle participle of δωρεω, old verb, to bestow (δωρεα, gift), usually middle as here, in N.T. elsewhere only Mark 15:45. Αυτου refers to Christ, who has "divine power" (της θειας δυναμεως), since he is θεος (2 Peter 1:1). Θειος (from θεος) is an old adjective in N.T. here and verse 2 Peter 1:4 only, except Acts 17:29, where Paul uses το θειον for deity, thus adapting his language to his audience as the papyri and inscriptions show. The use of θειος with an imperial connotation is very common in the papyri and the inscriptions. Deissmann (Bible Studies, pp. 360-368) has shown the singular linguistic likeness between 2 Peter 1:3-11 and a remarkable inscription of the inhabitants of Stratonicea in Caria to Zeus Panhemerios and Hecate dated A.D. 22 (in full in C I H ii No. 2715 a b). One of the likenesses is the use of της θειας δυναμεως. Peter may have read this inscription (cf. Paul in Athens) or he may have used "the familiar forms and formulae of religious emotion" (Deissmann), "the official liturgical language of Asia Minor." Peter is fond of δυναμις in this Epistle, and the δυναμις of Christ "is the sword which St. Peter holds over the head of the False Teachers" (Bigg).All things that pertain unto life and godliness  (παντα τα προς ζωην κα ευσεβειαν). "All the things for life and godliness." The new life in Christ who is the mystery of godliness (1 Timothy 3:16). Ευσεβεια with its cognates (ευσεβησ, ευσεβωσ, ευσεβεω) occurs only in this Epistle, Acts, and the Pastoral Epistles (from ευ, well, and σεβομα, to worship).Of him that called us  (του καλεσαντος). Genitive of the articular first aorist active participle of καλεω. Christ called Peter and all other Christians.By his own glory and virtue  (δια δοξης κα αρετης). So B K L, but Aleph A C P read ιδια δοξη κα αρετη (either instrumental case "by" or dative "to"). Peter is fond of ιδιος (own, 1 Peter 3:1; 1 Peter 3:5; 2 Peter 2:16; 2 Peter 2:22, etc.). "Glory" here is the manifestation of the Divine Character in Christ. For αρετη see on 1 Peter 2:9 and Philippians 4:8; 2 Peter 1:5. 