20.As if God did beseech you This is of no small importance for giving authority to the embassy: nay more, it is absolutely necessary, for who would rest upon the testimony of men, in reference to his eternal salvation? It is a matter of too much importance, to allow of our resting contented with the promise of men, without feeling assured that they are ordained by God, and that God speaks to us by them. This is the design of those commendations, with which Christ himself signalizes his Apostles: He that heareth you, heareth me, etc. (Luke 10:16.) Whatsoever you shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven, (Matthew 18:18,) and the like. We entreat you, in Christ’s stead. Hence we infer, with what propriety Isaiah exclaims, How blessed are the feet of them that preach the Gospel!(Isaiah 52:7.) For that one thing, that is of itself sufficient for completing our felicity, and without which we are most miserable, is conferred upon us, only through means of the Gospel. If, however, this duty is enjoined upon all the ministers of the Church, in such a way, that he who does not discharge this embassy is not to be regarded either as an Apostle, or as a Pastor, we may very readily judge from this, as to the nature of the Pope’s entire hierarchy. They are desirous, indeed, to be looked upon as Apostles and Pastors; but as they are dumb idols, how will their boasting (561) correspond with this passage of Paul’s writings. The word entreat is expressive of an unparalleled (562) commendation of the grace of Christ, inasmuch as He stoops so low, that he does not disdain to entreat us. So much the less excusable is our depravity, if we do not, on meeting with such kindness, show ourselves teachable and compliant. Be reconciled. It is to be observed, that Paul is here addressing himself to believers. He declares, that he brings to them every day this embassy. Christ therefore, did not suffer, merely that he might once expiate our sins, nor was the gospel appointed merely with a view to the pardon of those sins which we committed previously to baptism, but that, as we daily sin, so we might, also, by a daily remission, be received by God into his favor. For this is a continued embassy, (563) which must be assiduously sounded forth in the Church, till the end of the world; and the gospel cannot be preached, unless remission of sins is promised. We have here an express and suitable declaration for refuting the impious tenet of Papists, which calls upon us to seek the remission of sins after Baptism from some other source, than from the expiation that was effected through the death of Christ. Now this doctrine is commonly held in all the schools of Popery — that, after baptism, we merit the remission of sins by penitence, through means of the aid of the keys, (564) (Matthew 16:19,) — as if baptism itself could confer this (565) upon us without penitence. By the term penitence, however, they mean satisfactions. But what does Paul say here? He calls us to go, not less after baptism, than before it, to the one expiation made by Christ, that we may know that we always obtain it gratuitously. Farther, all their prating as to the administration of the keys is to no purpose, inasmuch as they conceive of keys apart from the Gospel, while they are nothing else than that testimony of a gratuitous reconciliation, which is made to us in the Gospel. (561) “Leur vanterie orgueilleuse;” — “Their haughty boasting.” (562) “Vne singuliere et inestimable louange;” — “A singular and inestimable commendation.” (563) “Vne ambassade et commission perpetuelle;” — “A perpetual embassy and commission.” (564) The reader will find this tenet of Popery adverted to by Calvin at considerable length in the Institutes, volume 3 — Ed. (565) “La remission de nos pechez;” — “The remission of our sins.” 