 1, 2 .]  And I saw when the Lamb opened one from among the seven seals, and I heard one from among the four living-beings saying, as the voice (a pendent nominative; the regular construction would be dative)  of thunder (which is to be taken not as peculiarly belonging to this first as resembling a lion, but as belonging to all alike, and accounted for by their mysterious and exalted nature: cf. ch. Revelation 1:10 , Rev 10:3 ),  Come (to whom, and with what meaning is this  ἔρχου spoken? The great majority of Commentators have taken the rec. reading, which fixes it by adding καὶ βλέπε , as an address to the Seer, to approach nearer and look at the coming vision. And even those who have rejected this addition have yet regarded it as a true gloss, and the “Come” as addressed to the Seer. But whither was he to come? Separated as he was by the glassy sea from the throne, was he to cross it? And where shall we find the simple verb ἔρχεσθαι used absolutely in such a sense, “Draw near,” without ὧδε or some such particle? Compare also the place where the Seer is to go and take the little book (ch. Rev 10:8 ), and see how different is the whole form of expression. In interpreting so unusual a term of address, surely we should rather begin by enquiring whether we have not the key to it in the book itself. And in this enquiry, are we justified in leaving out of consideration such a verse as ch. Revelation 22:17 , τὸ πνεῦμα καὶ ἡ γὐμφη λέγουσιν Ἔρχου · καὶ ὁ ἀκούων εἰπάτω Ἔρχου , and the following ἀμὴν ἔρχου , κύριε Ἰησοῦ , ib. Rev 22:20 ? This seems to shew, in my mind, beyond a doubt, what, in the mind of the Seer, the remarkable and insulated exclamation ἔρχου imported. It was a cry addressed, not to himself, but to the Lord Jesus: and as each of these four first seals is accompanied by a similar cry from one of the four living-beings, I see represented in this fourfold ἔρχου the groaning and travailing together of creation for the manifestation of the sons of God, expressed in each case in a prayer for Christ’s coming: and in the things revealed when the seals are opened, His fourfold preparation for His coming on earth. Then at the opening of the fifth seal the longing of the martyred saints for the same great consummation is expressed, and at that of the sixth it actually arrives).  And I saw, and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him having a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering, and in order that he may conquer (in the first place, the figure of the horses and their riders at once brings to mind the similar vision in Zechariah 1:7-11 ; Zechariah 6:1-8 , where the men on the horses are they whom the Lord hath sent to walk to and fro through the whole earth. In Zechariah 1:0 , as here, that part of the vision is followed, Revelation 6:12 , by the cry of the ἕως τίνος . Here the horses and their riders are the various aspects of the divine dispensations which should come upon the earth preparatory to the great day of the Lord’s coming. As regards this first, the whole imagery speaks of  victory . The horses of the Roman commanders in their triumphs were white. Wetst. quotes Virg. Æn. iii. 537, where Æneas says, “Quatuor hic primum omen equos in gramine vidi, Tondentes campum late, candore nivali;” where Servius’s comment is “Hoc ad victoriæ omen pertinet.” The  bow serves to identify the imagery here with that in Habakkuk 3:9 , where God goes forth for the salvation of His people: see also Isaiah 41:2 ; Zechariah 9:13 ; and even more strikingly with that in Psalms 45:4-5 , “In thy majesty ride prosperously, because of truth and meekness and righteousness: and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king’s enemies; whereby the people fall under thee.” It is hardly possible that one whose mind was full of such imagery, should have had any other meaning in his thoughts, than that to which these prophecies point. The  crown finds its parallel in the vision of Zechariah 6:0 , where, Revelation 6:11 , it is said, “take silver and gold, and make crowns ( στεφάνους , LXX), and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high-priest.” The  going forth conquering and in order to conquer can only, it seems to me, point to one interpretation. The νικῶν might be said of any victorious earthly power whose victories should endure for the time then present, and afterwards pass away: but the ἵνα νικήσῃ can only be said of a power whose victories should last for ever. Final and permanent victory then is here imported. Victory, we may safely say, on the part of that kingdom against which the gates of hell shall not prevail: whose fortunes and whose trials are the great subject of this revelation. Such is the first vision, the opening of the first seal in the mystery of the divine purposes:  victory for God’s church and people : the great key-note, so to speak, of all the apocalyptic harmonies. And notice, that in this interpretation, there is no lack of correspondence with the three visions which follow. All four are  judgments upon the earth: the beating down of earthly power, the breaking up of earthly peace, the exhausting of earthly wealth, the destruction of earthly life. Nor is this analogy disturbed, when we come to enquire,  who is the rider on this white horse. We must not, in reply, on the one hand, too hastily introduce the Person of our Lord Himself, or on the other, be startled at the objection that we shall be paralleling Him, or one closely resembling Him, with the far different forms which follow. Doubtless, the resemblance to the rider in ch. Revelation 19:11 ff. is very close, and is intended to be very close. The difference however is considerable. There, He is set forth as  present in his triumph, followed by the hosts of heaven: here, He is working, in bodily absence, and the rider is not Himself, but only a symbol of His victorious power, the embodiment of His advancing kingdom as regards that side of its progress where it breaks down earthly power, and makes the kingdom of the world to be the kingdom of our Lord and His Christ. Further it would not be wise, nor indeed according to the analogy of these visions, to specify. In all cases but the last, these riders are left in the vagueness of their symbolic offices. If we attempt in this case to specify further, e. g. as Victorinus, “Equus albus verbum est prædicationis cum Spiritu sancto missum in orbem. Ait enim Dominus, Prædicabitur hoc Evangelium per totum orbem terrarum in testimonium coram gentibus, et tunc veniet finis,” while we are sure that we are thus far right, we are but partially right: we do not cover the extent of the symbol, seeing that there are other aspects and instruments of victory of the kingdom of Christ, besides the preaching of the Word. The same might be said of any other of the partial interpretations which have been given by those who have taken this view. And it was taken, with divergences of separate detail, by all expositors from the earliest times down to the year 1500).