 3, 4 .]  And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living-being saying, Come (see above on Rev 6:1 ).  And there came forth another horse, red (the colour of blood: Song of Song of Solomon 4:0 Kings Revelation 3:22 , ὕδατα πυῤῥὰ ὡς αἷμα . The colour of the horse in each case has reference to the employment of the rider. Tertullian, de Spectaculis, 9, vol. i. p. 641, says: “russeum … Marti … consecraverunt”),  and to him that sat upon him it was given (to him) to take away peace (  τὴν εἰρ . not, as Elliott, “the peace left by the former seal,” for 1) the former seal neither implies nor leaves such peace, and 2) these four seals are strictly correlative, not consecutive on one another: but, peace  in its entirety , the τήν  distributing , as the logicians say, the substantive. See for εἰρήνη  without the art., Matthew 10:34 (peace, at all:  any peace): Luke 2:14 (peace, in each particular case, under every circumstance), &c.:  with the art., Romans 14:19 , τὰ τῆς εἰρ . διώκωμεν : Romans 15:33 , al., ὁ θεὸς τῆς εἰρήνης : Ephesians 2:14 , αὐτὸς ἐστὶν ἡ εἰρήνη ἡμῶν , &c.)  out of the earth (generally, as ever: not, Judæa, nor the Roman “orbis terrarum,” nor any special portion merely)  and that they (men: the inhabitants of the earth)  shall kill (the pregnant future after ἵνα not only imports the result of purpose, but includes also matter of fact, “that they may … which they also shall;” see Winer (edn. 6, § 41  b. 1. b), who however inteprets it as expressing duration (?), whereas the aor. denotes rapid transition)  one another: and there was given to him a great sword (the key to the interpretation of this seal is to be found in Matthew 10:34 , μὴ νομίσητε ὅτι ἦλθον βαλεῖν εἰρήνην ἐπὶ τὴν γῆν · οὐκ ἦλθον βαλεῖν εἰρήνην ἀλλὰ μάχαιραν : see also Luke 12:51 . It represents to us the taking away of peace from the earth, the slaying one another, the reign of the sword, as one of the destined concomitants of the growing and conquering power of Christ, and one of the world-long and world-wide preparations for His coming. Observe, all  limitations of this meaning are wrong: whether to the persecutions of the Christians, or to any period of time, ancient or modern. The above was the most ancient interpretation; e. g. we have in Victorinus, “Equus roseus et qui sedebat super eum habens gladium. bella sunt significata futura, ut legimus in Evangelio, Surget enim gens contra gentem,” &c., Mat 24:7 ).