 9 .]  And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar (it is an altar of  sacrifice which is here meant; ἐσφαγμένων , which follows, seems plainly to imply this: see below)  the souls (i. e. departed spirits. It is manifestly idle to enquire, seeing that the Apostle was in a state of spiritual and supernatural vision,  how these disembodied spirits became visible to him. That they were not, as Eichhorn, clothed with bodies, is manifest)  of those that have been slain on account of the word of God and on account of the testimony which they had (i. e. which was committed to them to bear, and which they bore: see reff., especially ch. Revelation 12:17 . The testimony is one  borne by them , as most Commentators: not one  borne to them by the faithful Witness, as Düsterd. and Ebrard, most unnaturally: for how could the testimony borne to them before the Father by Christ (so Ebr.) be the cause of their being put to death on earth?
	Much has been said about the souls of the martyrs not being their departed spirits, which must be conceived of as being in bliss with Christ (cf. Hengstb.), and in consequence it has been imagined that these were only their animal lives, resident in the blood and shed forth with it. But no such difficulty really exists. We know, whatever be the bliss of the departed martyrs and confessors, that they are waiting for the coming of the Lord, without which they are not perfect: and in the holy fire of their purified zeal, they look forward to that day as one of righteous judgment on the ungodly world. The representation here, in which they are seen  under the altar , is simply symbolical, carrying out the likening of them to victims slain on an altar. Even as the blood of these victims was poured under the altar and the life was in the blood, so their souls are represented as under the symbolical altar in heaven, crying for vengeance, as blood is often said to do. After this, it hardly need be said that no inference can be drawn from this vision respecting the intermediate state between the death of the saints and the coming of the Lord):  and they cried with a great voice, saying (viz. αἱ ψυχαί , which are identified in the sentence with the persons themselves: not, as Ebr. and Düsterd. the ἐσφαγμένοι as distinguished from the ψυχαί )  Until when (i. e. how long: see reff.),  thou Master (  δεσπότης is the correlative of δοῦλος , cf. σύνδουλοι below, Revelation 6:11 , and see ch. Revelation 1:1 ; Luke 2:29 ; 1 Timothy 6:1 . It is God who is here addressed; with Him rests the time when to avenge His elect, cf. Luk 18:7-8 )  holy and true (see on ch. Revelation 3:7 , for the sense of ἀληθινός in such connexion: here it is too evidently intended of subjective truthfulness for the other meaning even to be brought into question: and it is wonderful that Düsterd. should have insisted on it, “  der Herr welcher in Wahrheit diesen Namen verdient .” For the voc. expressed by the nom. with the art., see reff., and Winer, edn. 6, § 29. 2),  dost thou not judge (give decision in the matter of; with  ἐκ , see reff.)  and exact vengeance for our blood from (reff.: ἀπο is found in Luk 18:3 )  them that dwell upon the earth (i. e. the ungodly world, as distinguished from the church of God)  ?
	As hitherto, so here again, the analogy and order of our Lord’s great prophecy in Mat 24:11 is closely followed. “The signs of His coming, and of the end of the world” were there announced by Himself as war, famine, and pestilence, Revelation 6:6-7 . And when He had declared that these were but the beginning of sorrows ( ὠδίνων ), He next, Revelation 6:9 f., announces the persecution and martyrdom of His people. Similarly here, after the judgments already announced, we have the prayer for vengeance on the part of the martyrs, and the announcement of more such martyrdoms to come. And as our Lord’s prophecies received a partial fulfilment in the events preceding the destruction of Jerusalem, and may have done so again and again since, but await their great and final fulfilment when the day of His coming approaches, so it is with these. The cry of the martyrs’ blood has been ever going up before God since Stephen fell: ever and anon, at some great time of persecution, it has waxed louder: and so on through the ages it shall accumulate and gather strength, till the great issue of the parable Luke 18:1 ff. is accomplished.  And there was given to them [  each ]  a white robe (there will be no real difficulty in understanding this, if we are careful to mark its real place and interpret it accordingly. The white robe, in this book, is the vestment of acknowledged and glorified righteousness in which the saints walk and reign with Christ: cf. ch. Revelation 3:4 ; Revelation 7:13 ff., al. This was given to the martyrs: but their prayer for vengeance was not yet granted. The Seer saw in vision that this was so. The white robe was not actually bestowed as some additional boon, but seemed in vision to be thus bestowed, because in that vision one side only of the martyrs’ intermediate state had been presented, viz. the fact of their slaughter and their collective cry for vengeance. Now, as over against that, the other more glorious side is presented, viz. that though the collective cry for vengeance is not yet answered, yet individually they are blessed in glory with Christ, and waiting for their fellows to be fully complete),  and it was said to them that they should rest (not merely,  abstain from their cry for vengeance, be quiet (so De W., al.): but  rest in blessedness , see ch. Revelation 14:13 , and ref. Daniel)  yet a little while until (construction, see reff.)  their fellow-servants (see above on δεσπότης )  also and their brethren (the  καὶ  .…   καί may be taken as “  both … and ,” in which case two different sets of persons are indicated by the σύνδουλοι and the ἀδελφοί , which distinction it would not be easy to give an account of. So that I prefer regarding the first καί as “also,” “as well as themselves,” and the two substantives as describing (notwithstanding the repetition of the οἱ before ἀδελφοί ) the same persons; those who are οἱ σύνδουλοι αὐτῶν and οἱ ἀδελφοὶ αὐτῶν : the former term reminding them of the necessity of completeness as far as the service of their one Master is concerned: the latter, as far as they belong to one and the same great family)  shall have accomplished (scil. “  their course .” Considering that this absolute use of πληροῦν without an object following is an ἅπαξ λεγόμενον , it is strange that Ebr. and Düsterd. should designate πληρώσωσιν as an explanatory reading for πληρωθῶσιν . If this latter be read, then we must render,  shall have been completed (in number); a meaning found Luke 21:24 ; Acts 7:23 ; Acts 7:30 ; Acts 9:23 ; Acts 24:27 ; cf. also Colossians 2:10 , which suggests another reason for altering to - θῶσιν ),  who are about to be slain as also they were .