 7, 8 .]  And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living-being saying, Come (see above on Rev 6:1 ).  And I saw, and behold a livid horse (  χλωρός , originally and properly grass-green, when used of flesh implies that greenish pallor which we know as  livid : the colour of the corpse in incipient decay, or of the complexion extremely pale through disease. Thus Thucyd. in describing the symptoms of the plague at Athens, says that the body was οὐκ ἄγαν θερμόν , οὔτε χλωρόν , ἀλλ ʼ ὑπέρυθρον . Callistratus, as quoted in Wetst. says, ἡ μὲν γὰρ χεὶρ ὑπὸ τοῦ φόβου χλωρόν τε καὶ τεθνηκὸς ὁρῶσα . Hippocrates, ibid. says of the colour, μελάντερόν ἐστι τοῦ ἐρυθροῦ , καὶ οἷον ἀρχή τις τοῦ μελαίνεσθαι καὶ πελιδνοῦσθαι . And again, in describing the symptoms of approaching death, ῥὶς ὀξεῖα , ὀφθαλμοὶ κοιλοί , … καὶ τὸ χρῶμα τοῦ ξύμπαντος προσώπου χλωρόν τε καὶ μέλαν ἐὸν .… σημαίνει θανατῶδες . See also Wetst.’s other quotations),  and he that sat upon him ( ἐπάνω αὐτοῦ , lit.  on the top of him : in the three other cases, ἐπ ʼ αὐτόν . The nominative is pendent, see ch. Revelation 3:12 ; Rev 3:21 )  his name was Death (i. e. he was death personified. In this case only of the four is the explanation given. It is wrong to understand Pestilence by  this θάνατος : see below),  and Hades (the impersonation of the place of the departed: see ch. Revelation 1:18 , Revelation 20:14 , where as here θανάτου καὶ ᾅδου go together. Eichhorn and Ebrard understand it of the whole multitude of the departed: but this clearly is beside the purpose: personification being the prevailing character of these four riders)  was following with him (in his train: ready to engulf and detain his victims),  and there was given to them (Death and Hades, considered as joint partners in the baleful work)  power over the fourth part of the earth (  ἐπί with accus., as  extending over, spreading over ,  τὸ τέταρτον τῆς γῆς , perhaps owing to the fourfold division of these former seals: not implying thereby that this last rider divided the earth with the three former, but thus specifying his portion as being one of four. At all events this suggests itself here as a possible reference of the number four: whereas in ch. 8 the continually recurring τὸ τρίτον has no such assignable solution. The expositors for the most part pass it over, merely as signifying a considerable portion. Elliott, with whose historical interpretation it will not square, takes refuge in the reading of the vulg., “super quatuor partes terræ”),  to kill with (the  ἐν of  investiture , expressing the element or vehicle in which the action transpires)  sword and with famine and with death (i. e. here,  pestilence : see below),  and by (  ὑπο , seeing that the other three were rather general indications of the manner in which, but this last of the actual agent by whose administration. Wetst. gives examples of ἀποθανεῖν , τελευτᾷν , ὑπο , but the construction with an active verb is not common. See Matthiæ, § 592, who gives, besides ref., Eurip. Alcest. 753, εἰ δὲ ἀπειπεῖν χρῆν με κηρύκων ὕπο τὴν σὴν πατρῴαν ἑστίαν , Plato, Phileb. p. 320, ὑπὸ ἀγγέλων φράζειν , and Thuc. vi. 32, ὑπὸ κήρυκος εὐχὰς ποιεῖσθαι . It is singular that these examples should all belong to the same description of employment of agents)  the wild beasts of the earth (the enumeration comprehends the “  four sore judgments ” enumerated in Ezekiel 14:21 , and in the same terms: τὰς τέσσαρας ἐκδικήσεις μου τὰς πονηράς ,  ῥομφαίαν καὶ  λιμὸν καὶ  θηρία πονηρὰ καὶ  θάνατον . This fixes the meaning of this second and subordinate θανάτῳ as above.
	This seal also is interpreted as above by the earliest Commentators: e. g. Victorinus: “Hæc eadem quoque inter cæteras clades præmiserat Dominus, venturas pestes magnas et mortalitates.” But as on the third seal, so here also, he goes off into vague allegory about the latter part of the vision).
	We have now passed the four first seals, after which the character of the vision changes. One feature common to these four is, Personification: the representation of processions of events by the impersonation of their leading features. Another is, the share which the four living-creatures bear in the representation, which after this point ceases, as far as the seals are concerned. No interpretation can be right, which does not take both these common features into account. And in my view this may best be done by viewing, as above, these four visions as the four solemn preparations for the coming of the Lord as regards the visible Creation, which these four living-beings symbolize. The whole Creation demands His coming. Ἔρχου , is the cry of all its tribes. This cry is answered, first by the vision of the great Conqueror, whose arrows are in the heart of his enemies, and whose career is the world’s history. The breaking of this first seal is the great opening of the mystery of God. This in some sense includes and brings in the others. Those others then, as we might expect, hold a place subordinate to this. They are, in fact, but exponents of the mysteries enwrapt within this conquering career: visions of the method of its being carried out to the end in its operation on the outward world. That the world-wide declaration of the everlasting Gospel should be accompanied by war, by famine, by pestilence, and other forms of death, had been announced by our Lord Himself ( Mat 24:7 ), and is now repeated in this series of visions. The fulfilment of each of these judgments is, as it were, the removing a seal from the book of God’s mysterious purposes: the bringing nearer of the time when that book shall be open for all the redeemed to read.
	With regard to the question whether these four visions are to be regarded as consecutive or contemporaneous, I have already expressed an opinion. In their  fulness , I believe them to be contemporaneous, and each of them to extend through the whole lifetime of the church. The analogy of the whole four symbols seems to require this. We read nothing implying that there are “days” of the opening of any particular seal, as there are, ch. Revelation 10:7 , of the sounding of the several trumpets. The ἵνα νικήσῃ of the first seal speaks of a purpose which will not be accomplished till the earth be all subjugated: and if I am right in supposing the other visions subordinate to this, their agency is necessarily included in its process. At the same time I would by no means deny that they may receive continually recurring, or even ultimate fulfilments, as the ages of the world go on, in distinct periods of time, and by distinctly assignable events. So far we may derive benefit from the Commentaries of those who imagine that they have discovered their fulfilment in successive periods of history, that, from the very variety and discrepancy of the periods assigned by them, we may verify the fact of the prevalence of these announced judgments, hitherto, throughout the whole lifetime of the Church.
	As regards  ultimate fulfilment, there can be no doubt, that all these judgments on the world without, as well as the manifestation (of which they form a part) of the conquering career of the Kingdom of Christ, will reach their culminating point before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. I may add, that no account whatever is taken, in the common  historic interpretation, of the  distinctive character of the four first seals, as introduced by the cry of the four living-beings: nor indeed is any interpretation commonly given of that cry itself.