 12 7:17 .] OPENING OF THE SIXTH SEAL, AND ITS ATTENDANT VISIONS. And herein ( Rev 6:12-17 )  Immediate approach of the great day of the Lord , Matthew 24:29 [98] : ( Rev 7:1-8 )  gathering of the elect out of the four winds , Matthew 24:31 ; ( Rev 7:9-17 )  vision of the whole glorified church , Matthew 25:0 .
	 [98] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	The interpretation of this sixth seal is a crucial point in Apocalyptic exegesis. We may unhesitatingly set down all interpretations as wrong, which view as the fulfilment of this passage any period except that of the coming of the Lord. See the grounds of this below.  And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and a great earthquake took place (we have no word but “  earthquake ” for  σεισμός , but it does not by any means cover the meaning. For here the heavens are shaken (against Düsterd.), and the sea, and the dry land. See Haggai 2:6-7 , and the comment in Hebrews 12:26 f. Compare also Zec 14:4-5 ),  and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair (see ref. Isa. The cloth meant is the cilicium: see note on Acts 18:3 . This answers to Matthew 24:29 , εὐθὺς δὲ μετὰ τὴν θλῖψιν τῶν ἡμερῶν ἐκείνων ὁ ἥλιος σκοτισθήσεται .…, and to ὁ ἥλιος μεταστραφήσεται εἰς σκότος , in Joe 2:31 ),  and the whole moon (i. e. not the moon in her crescent or her incomplete form, but entire; as we say, the full moon)  became as blood (so Matt. l. c., καὶ ἡ σελήνη οὐ δώσει τὸ φέγγος αὐτῆς ; and Joel 2:31 , καὶ ἡ σελήνη εἰς αἷμα , πρὶν ἐλθεῖν τὴν ἡμέραν κυρίου τὴν μεγάλην καὶ ἐπιφανῆ ),  and the stars of the heaven fell to the earth (so Matt. l. c., καὶ οἱ ἀστέρες πεσοῦνται ἀπὸ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ ),  as a fig-tree casteth her unripe figs ( ὄλυνθος , τὸ μὴ πεπαμμένον σῦκον , Hesych. De W. explains it to mean, the winter figs, which almost always fall off unripe)  when shaken by a great wind (so Matt. again, l. c., καὶ αἱ δυνάμεις τῶν οὐρανῶν σαλευθήσονται . It is remarkable, that in Matt., when the description has finished, the next words are ἀπὸ τῆς συκῆς μάθετε τὴν παραβολήν . The similitude from the fig-tree, though a different one, rises to the mind of the Apostle as he sees in vision the fulfilment of his Master’s words which were so shortly followed by a similar illustration. The imagery itself, as that in the beginning of the next verse, is from Isa 34:4 ).  And the heaven parted asunder as a scroll when rolled up (the stars having fallen from it, the firmament itself was removed away, as an open scroll which is rolled up and put by. So also almost verbatim, Isa 34:4 ),  and every mountain and island were moved out of their places (cf. again Matthew 24:35 , ὁ οὐρανὸς καὶ ἡ γῆ παρελεύσεται : the whole earth is broken up by a change as total as any of those previous ones which have prepared it for its present inhabitants. Cf. ch. Revelation 16:20 ; and Nahum 1:5 , τὰ ὄρη ἐσείσθησαν ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ οἱ βουνοὶ ἐσαλεύθησαν , καὶ ἀνεστὰλη ἡ γῆ ἀπὸ προσώπου αὐτοῦ ἡ σύμπασα καὶ πάντες οἱ κατοικοῦντες ἐν αὐτῇ ).  And the kings of the earth and the great men (the word μεγιστᾶνες belongs to later Greek. It serves here to designate the great civil officers, statesmen and courtiers, as distinguished from the next following)  and the chief captains (see reff., especially those in Acts, where the officer in command of the garrison at Jerusalem is so called)  and the rich men and the strong men (hitherto the enumeration has comprised all those who from their circumstances would have most ground for trust in the permanence of the existing state of the earth: these last, the ἰσχυροί , being perhaps the physically strong, cf. Ps. 32:16: or perhaps all those who on account of any ἰσχύς , physical or intellectual, are of the number of the sturdy or stout-hearted. The word is commonly used by the LXX as an epithet or even as a name ( ὁ ἰσχυρός ) of Jehovah: but also as here: see reff. Now, the catalogue becomes more general)  and every man, bond and free, hid themselves in ( εἰς , pregn.; ran for shelter  into )  the caves and in the rocks of the mountains (see reff. Isa., from which the imagery comes),  and say to the mountains and to the rooks, Fall upon us and hide us from the countenance (see ref., and cf. Psalms 33:16 , πρόσωπον κυρίου ἐπὶ ποιοῦντας κακά )  of Him that sitteth upon the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb (the imagery is from Hosea 10:8 , further impressed by our Lord’s solemn saying on the way to Calvary, Luke 23:30 : the meaning, that all these shall seek death or annihilation in terror of the coming day, when they shall have to stand before God):  because the great day (we have no way in English of expressing the ἡ μεγάλη without an awkward periphrasis. The art. lifts the adjective out of its mere epithetal office, and makes it almost a  title the day, that great day: cf. Acts 8:10 , where the people say of Simon Magus, οὗτός ἐστιν ἡ δύναμις τοῦ θεοῦ  ἡ καλουμένη μεγάλη . This name, ἡ ἡμ . ἡ  μεγάλη , if properly considered, should have kept expositors firm here to the great verity of this part of the Apocalyptic visions, and prevented them from going in omnia alia as they have done)  of His wrath is come (the virtually  perfect sense of the aor. ἦλθεν here can hardly be questioned. Yet even here an account may be given of the aoristic use: see note on ch. Rev 11:15 ),  and who is able to stand (reff., and Mal 3:2 )? We are thus brought to the very threshold itself of the great day of the Lord’s coming. It has not yet happened: but the tribes of the earth are troubled at its immediate approach, and those terrible signs with which all Scripture ushers it in, have taken place. We are now then arrived at the time described in Matthew 24:30 ; the coming itself of the Son of man being for a while kept in the background, as hereafter to be resumed. He is seen as it were coming: but before the vengeance is fully accomplished, the elect of God then living on the earth must be gathered, as Matthew 24:31 , out of the four winds of heaven, from among the inhabitants of the earth. To this ingathering the sealing in our text is the necessary preliminary. The correspondence between the series of prophecies holds even in the minutest particulars, and where they do not correspond, their very differences are full of instruction. See these pointed out as we proceed.