 5, 6 .]  And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living-being saying, Come (see above on Rev 6:1 ).  And I saw, and behold a black horse (the colour is indicative of the mournful nature of the employment of the rider: see below),  and he that sat on him having a balance (the symbol of scarcity, during which the bread is doled out by weight: see Ezekiel 4:16 , φάγονται ἄρτον ἐν σταθμῷ καὶ ἐν ἐνδείᾳ : and Leviticus 26:26 , ἀποδώσουσι τοὺς ἄρτους ὑμῶν ἐν σταθμῷ , καὶ φάγεσθε καὶ οὐ μὴ ἐμπλησθῆτε . Some, as e. g. Woodhouse, have defended the meaning “  yoke ” for ζυγόν . But surely the question is here decided for us by ref. Ezek., ζυγὸς δίκαιος , καὶ μέτρον δίκαιον , καὶ χοῖνιξ δικαία ἔσται ὑμῖν τοῦ μέτρου : where the same words occur in juxtaposition. The assertion of Mr. Barker, in his strictures on Elliott’s Horæ Ap., that ζυγός in the sense of  balance absolutely is very rare, is sufficiently answered by the proverb ἀκριβέστερος ζυγοῦ : by Diog. Laert. viii. 18, where he records of Pythagoras the maxim ζυγὸν μὴ ὑπερβαίνειν , τουτέστι , τὸ ἴσον καὶ δίκαιον μὴ ὑπερβαίνειν . When a word can be thus used figuratively in common sayings, its literal sense cannot be so very rare. Cf. also the Etymologicon in Wetstein, ζυγὸς εἴρηται καὶ τὸ λεγόμενον ὑπὸ τῶν ποιητῶν τάλαντον ἠγοῦν ἢ τρυτάνη : and his citations from Sextus Empir. and Demosthenes)  in his hand. And I heard as it were ( ὡς must apparently be taken with the whole clause “something like (a voice in the midst of the four living-beings),” the uncertainty applying to the  situation , not to its being a voice, which it  was )  a voice in the midst of the four living-beings (it is not specified,  whose voice: but the point from which the voice comes is appropriate to its intent, which is to mitigate the woes of creation, represented by the four living-beings: see below),  saying (Let there be)  A chœnix of wheat for a denarius (gen. of price, see Winer, edn. 6, § 30. 10 end),  and three chœnixes of barley for a denarius (the sense seems to be, Take care that there be thus much food for thus much price. The denarius was the ordinary soldier’s pay for a day in the time of Tiberius (see note on Mat 20:2 ), and has been usually and not unfairly assumed to be twice mentioned here as representing a day’s wages. The chœnix appears in like manner to be taken for a day’s provision: for so it is used in several of the numerous places cited by Wetst.: e. g. Herod., vii. 187, who, in estimating the amount of food consumed by the army of Xerxes, assumes this: εὑρίσκω γὰρ συμβαλλεόμενος , εἰ χοίνικα πυρῶν ἕκαστος τῆς ἡμέρας ἐλάμβανε καὶ μηδὲν πλέον : Thuc. iv. 16, speaking of the allowance made to the Lacedæmonians in Sphacteria while negotiations were going on, σῖτον … δύο χοίνικας ἑκάστῳ Ἀττικὰς ἀλφίτων , καὶ δύο κοτύλας : Athen. x. 452 E, μὴ καθῆσθαι ἐπὶ χοίνικα , ἀντὶ τοῦ μὴ σκοπεῖν τὰ ἐφ ʼ ἡμέρας , ἀλλὰ τὴν ἐπιοῦσαν ἀεὶ προσδέχεσθαι : Diog. Laert. Pythag. viii. 18, and Suidas under Pythagoras, ἐπὶ χοίνικος μὴ καθίζειν , ἐν ἴσῳ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος φροντίδα ποιεῖσθαι καὶ τοῦ μέλλοντος · ἡ γὰρ χοῖνιξ ἡμερήσιος τροφή . Nothing can be more decisive than such proverbial usage. The tendency of the voice is then to check or limit the agency of the rider on the black horse, and to provide that notwithstanding his errand sustenance shall not utterly fail. With regard to the three chœnixes of barley, the cheaper and less profitable grain, it seems to have been rightly interpreted as taking in the other case, of the workman who, out of his denarius a day, has to maintain not himself only, but his family also, and cannot consequently afford the dearer wheaten bread);  and the oil and the wine do not thou injure (not, as Heinr. and recently Elliott, “do thou not commit injustice in the matter of the oil and the wine.” The usage of this book should have prevented such an interpretation: for ἀδικεῖν with the accus. of the material object hurt or injured is the constant habit of our Writer, see reff.: and in no case do we find the other construction used by him, or indeed by any other writer to my knowledge, except with such general adverbial accusatives as τι and οὐδέν , e. g. Galatians 4:12 ; Philemon 1:18 . This statement of the usage of ἀδικέω in this Book and in Greek literature, Mr. Elliott,  more suo , calls a “vain dictum:” and adds, “In the three Apocalyptic examples of the  thing injured , occurring in connexion with the verb ἀδικέω in the active sense of  injury , the accusative follows the verb: Revelation 7:2-3 , Revelation 9:4 .” It did not suit his purpose to cite Revelation 11:5 , αὐτοὺς ἀδικῆσαι , and he therefore appears to introduce a distinction (of course untenable) between the  person and  thing injured. But this whole matter of the position of the accusative has to do with the emphasis only, and not with the construction at all. Not one of the examples which he cites in his note is to the point: in that from Xenophon, Cyrop. iv. 5. 42, τὴν δ ʼ ἀγορὰν τὴν οὖσαν ἐν τῷ στρατοπέδῳ κηρυξάτω μὲν ἤδη , ἔφη , μὴ ἀδικεῖν μηδένα , πωλεῖν δὲ τοὺς καπήλους ὅ τι ἔχει ἕκαστος πράσιμον …, the pendent accusative being evidently prefixed to the whole subsequent enactment, not connected with the first verb in it only. Rinck gives another meaning, equally untenable, “  waste not the oil and the wine,” seeing they are so costly.
	As regards the meaning, the spirit of the saying is as explained above: the rider on the black horse symbolizing Famine, is limited in his desolating action by the command given, that enough is to be reserved for sustenance. Wheat, barley, oil, and wine, formed the ordinary sources of nourishment: cf. Psalms 104:14-15 . So that as regards its  intent , the command is parallel with that saying of our Lord in Matthew 24:22 ; καὶ εἰ μὴ ἐκολοβώθησαν αἱ ἡμέραι ἐκεῖναι , οὐκ ἂν ἐσώθη πᾶσα σάρξ · διὰ δὲ τοὺς ἐκλεκτοὺς κολοβωθήσονται αἱ ἡμέραι ἐκεῖναι . It is the mercy of God, tempering His judgments. And in its general interpretation, as the opening of the first seal revealed the certain proceeding on to victory of Christ and His church, and the second, that His coming should be prepared in the world not by peace but by the sword, so now by this third we learn that Famine, the pressure of want on men, not sweeping them away by utter failure of the means of subsistence, but keeping them far below the ordinary standard of comfort, and especially those who depend on their daily labour, will be one of the four judgments by which the way of the Lord’s coming will be opened. This seems to point, not so much to  death by famine, which belongs to the next vision, as to agrarian distress with all its dreadful consequences: ripening in some cases (see below) into the hunger-death, properly the consequence of Famine.
	The above interpretation of the third seal is given in the main by Victorinus “Equus niger autem famem significat; ait enim Dominus: Erunt fames per loca:” but he allegorizes the latter part of the vision: “vinum et oleum ne læseris, id est, hominem spiritualem ne plagis percusseris”).