This section describes the  central fact of the world’s history. The accounts of the four Evangelists agree perfectly as to the main points; but each mentions circumstances omitted by the others. Matthew gives ‘the fullest statement of the blasphemy against Christ’s Messianic dignity; and he alone relates the effect produced upon the realm of the dead by the death of Jesus. The chief points are, Simon of Cyrene; Golgotha; the bitter wine; the parting of the garments; the watch (this last is recorded by our Evangelist alone); the two robbers crucified with Jesus; the blasphemies of the foes; the mocking by the robbers; the darkening of the sun; Jesus exclamation, My God, and the varying interpretations and the real meaning of the same; the giving up of His spirit; the rending of the temple vail; the excitement in the world of the dead; the centurion’s testimony; the women beholding’ (Lange).
	 THE CROSS. Of this there were three forms: 1 .  Crux immissa or  capitata, a transverse beam crossing a perpendicular one at some distance from the top, =  . According to tradition this was the form of the Saviour’s cross, which appears probable from the fact that the ‘title ‘was placed over the head. The so-called  Greek cross is a form of the  crux immissa, where the two beams cross each other in the middle, and the four arms are of equal length. 2 .  Crux commissa, a transverse beam placed on the top of a perpendicular one, resembling the letter T. 3 .  Crux decussata or ‘St. Andrew’s cross,’ like the letter X. The cross which appeared to Constantine was of this form, with the Greek letter R in it, so as to represent the first two letters of the word Christos.
	 In the middle of the perpendicular beam there was a piece of wood, on which the sufferer rested, to prevent the whole weight of the body from falling upon the hands and tearing them from the nails; but as it protracted the sufferings it might itself become a source of great pain. Usually the cross was erected, and the condemned one then fastened on it; but often the nailing took place first, and then the cross was lifted and let fall with violence into the hole dug for it, giving the sufferer a violent shock. Our Lord was fastened to His cross by nails, driven through His hands and feet (comp. Luke 24:39); which seems to have been the usual mode. Each foot was probably nailed separately. Our Lord may have still worn the crown of thorns; especially as the removal of the robe is mentioned, and not that of the crown (Matthew 27:31). This mode of punishment was introduced into Judea by the Romans. The Jews often hanged those who had been stoned to death, but the corpse must be buried the same day, so as not to pollute the land (Deuteronomy 21:22-23). The Romans permitted the crucified to die slowly; and the sufferings sometimes continued for three days. Their flesh was given to the birds or other wild animals. At times their sufferings were shortened, by kindling a fire beneath, or allowing lions and bears to tear them to pieces. As according to Jewish custom, the bodies must at once be taken down and buried, death was hastened by the  Crucifragium, the breaking of the legs, to which was sometimes added ‘a mercy-stroke,’ that is, the piercing of the body. If they were already dead, the latter alone was given, to make the matter sure. It was a disgraceful punishment among the Romans, and yet more so in the eyes of the Jews. The physical sufferings were fearfully great. Dr. Richter thus describes them. ‘ 1 . On account of the unnatural and immovable position of the body and the violent extension of the arms, the least motion produced the most painful sensation all over the body, but especially on the lacerated back and the pierced members. 2 . The nails caused constantly increasing pain on the most sensitive parts of the hands and feet. 3 . Inflammation set in at the pierced members and wherever the circulation of the blood was obstructed by the violent tension of the body, and increased the agony and an intolerable thirst. 4 . The blood rushed to the head and produced the most violent headache. 5 . The blood in the lungs accumulated, pressing the heart, swelling all the veins, and caused nameless anguish. Loss of blood through the open wounds would have shortened the pain, but the blood clotted and ceased flowing. Death generally set in slowly, the muscles, veins, and nerves gradually growing stiff, and the vital powers sinking from exhaustion.’
	