5. upon . . . forehead . . . name—as
	harlots usually had. What a contrast to "HOLINESS
	TO THE LORD,"
	inscribed on the miter on the high priest's forehead!
mystery—implying a
	spiritual fact heretofore hidden, and incapable of discovery by mere
	reason, but now revealed. As the union of Christ and the Church is a
	"great mystery" (a spiritual truth of momentous interest,
	once hidden, now revealed, Ephesians 5:31;
	Ephesians 5:32), so the Church
	conforming to the world and thereby becoming a harlot is a counter
	"mystery" (or spiritual truth, symbolically now revealed).
	As iniquity in the harlot is a leaven working in "mystery,"
	and therefore called "the mystery of iniquity," so
	when she is destroyed, the iniquity heretofore working
	(comparatively) latently in her, shall be revealed in the
	man of iniquity, the open embodiment of all previous evil.
	Contrast the "mystery of God" and "godliness,"
	Revelation 10:7; 1 Timothy 3:16.
	It was Rome that crucified Christ; that destroyed Jerusalem and
	scattered the Jews; that persecuted the early Christians in pagan
	times, and Protestant Christians in papal times; and probably shall
	be again restored to its pristine grandeur, such as it had under the
	Cæsars, just before the burning of the harlot and of itself with
	her. So HIPPOLYTUS [On
	Antichrist] (who lived in the second century), thought. Popery
	cannot be at one and the same time the "mystery of
	iniquity," and the manifested or revealed
	Antichrist. Probably it will compromise for political power (1 Timothy 3:16- :) the portion of Christianity still in its creed, and thus
	shall prepare the way for Antichrist's manifestation. The name
	Babylon, which in the image, Daniel 2:32;
	Daniel 2:38, is given to the head,
	is here given to the harlot, which marks her as being connected with
	the fourth kingdom, Rome, the last part of the image. Benedict XIII,
	in his indiction for a jubilee, A.D.
	1725, called Rome "the mother of all believers, and the
	mistress of all churches" (harlots like herself). The
	correspondence of syllables and accents in Greek is striking;
	"He porne kai to therion; He numphe kai to arnion."
	"The whore and the beast; the Bride and the Lamb." 
	of harlots—Greek,
	"of the harlots and of the abominations." Not
	merely Rome, but Christendom as a whole, even as formerly Israel as a
	whole, has become a harlot. The invisible Church of true believers is
	hidden and dispersed in the visible Church. The boundary lines which
	separate harlot and woman are not denominational nor drawn
	externally, but can only be spiritually discerned. If Rome were the
	only seat of Babylon, much of the spiritual profit of
	Revelation would be lost to us; but the harlot "sitteth upon
	many waters" (Revelation 17:1),
	and "ALL nations have
	drunk of the wine of her fornication" (Revelation 17:2;
	Revelation 18:3; "the earth,"
	Revelation 19:2). External
	extensiveness over the whole world and internal conformity to the
	world—worldliness in extent and contents—is symbolized by the
	name of the world city, "Babylon." As the sun shines on all
	the earth, thus the woman clothed with the sun is to let her light
	penetrate to the uttermost parts of the earth. But she, in externally
	Christianizing the world, permits herself to be seduced by the world;
	thus her universality or catholicity is not that of the Jerusalem
	which we look for ("the MOTHER
	of us all," Revelation 21:2;
	Isaiah 2:2-4; Galatians 4:26),
	but that of Babylon, the world-wide but harlot city! (As
	Babylon was destroyed, and the Jews restored to Jerusalem by Cyrus,
	so our Cyrus—a Persian name meaning the sun—the Sun of
	righteousness, shall bring Israel, literal and spiritual, to the holy
	Jerusalem at His coming. Babylon and Jerusalem are the two opposite
	poles of the spiritual world). Still, the Romish Church is not only
	accidentally and as a matter of fact, but in virtue of its very
	PRINCIPLE, a harlot, the
	metropolis of whoredom, "the mother of harlots"; whereas
	the evangelical Protestant Church is, according to her principle and
	fundamental creed, a chaste woman; the Reformation was a protest of
	the woman against the harlot. The spirit of the heathen world kingdom
	Rome had, before the Reformation, changed the Church in the West into
	a Church-State, Rome; and in the East, into a State-Church,
	fettered by the world power, having its center in Byzantium; the
	Roman and Greek churches have thus fallen from the invisible
	spiritual essence of the Gospel into the elements of the world
	[AUBERLEN]. Compare with
	the "woman" called "Babylon" here, the woman
	named "wickedness," or "lawlessness," "iniquity"
	(Zechariah 5:7; Zechariah 5:8;
	Zechariah 5:11), carried to Babylon:
	compare "the mystery of iniquity" and "the man of
	sin," "that wicked one," literally, "the
	lawless one" (2 Thessalonians 2:7;
	2 Thessalonians 2:8; also 2 Thessalonians 2:8- :).