12. ten kings . . . received no
	kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings . . . with the beast—Hence
	and from Revelation 17:14; Revelation 17:16,
	it seems that these ten kings or kingdoms, are to be contemporaries
	with the beast in its last or eighth form, namely, Antichrist.
	Compare Daniel 2:34; Daniel 2:44,
	"the stone smote the image upon his feet," that is,
	upon the ten toes, which are, in Daniel 2:44- :, interpreted to be "kings." The ten
	kingdoms are not, therefore, ten which arose in the overthrow of Rome
	(heathen), but are to rise out of the last state of the fourth
	kingdom under the eighth head. I agree with ALFORD
	that the phrase "as kings," implies that they
	reserve their kingly rights in their alliance with the beast, wherein
	"they give their power and strength unto" him (Daniel 2:44- :). They have the name of kings, but not with
	undivided kingly power [WORDSWORTH].
	See AUBERLEN'S not so
	probable view, see on Revelation 17:1. 
	one hour—a definite
	time of short duration, during which "the devil is
	come down to the inhabitant of the earth and of the sea, having great
	wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time."
	Probably the three and a half years (Revelation 11:2;
	Revelation 11:3; Revelation 13:5).
	Antichrist is in existence long before the fall of Babylon; but it is
	only at its fail he obtains the vassalage of the ten kings. He in the
	first instance imposes on the Jews as the Messiah, coming in his own
	name; then persecutes those of them who refuse his blasphemous
	pretensions. Not until the sixth vial, in the latter part of his
	reign, does he associate the ten kings with him in war with the Lamb,
	having gained them over by the aid of the spirits of devils working
	miracles. His connection with Israel appears from his sitting "in
	the temple of God" (2 Thessalonians 2:4),
	and as the antitypical "abomination of desolation standing in
	the Holy place" (Daniel 9:27;
	Daniel 12:11; Matthew 24:15),
	and "in the city where our Lord was crucified" (Matthew 24:15- :). It is remarkable that IRENÆUS
	[Against Heresies, 5:25] and CYRIL
	OF JERUSALEM
	[RUFINUS, Historia
	Monachorum, 10.37] prophesied that Antichrist would have his seat
	at Jerusalem and would restore the kingdom of the Jews. JULIAN
	the apostate, long after, took part with the Jews, and aided in
	building their temple, herein being Antichrist's forerunner.