9. Compare Revelation 13:18;
	Daniel 12:10, where similarly
	spiritual discernment is put forward as needed in order to understand
	the symbolical prophecy. 
	seven heads and seven
	mountains—The connection between mountains and kings
	must be deeper than the mere outward fact to which incidental
	allusion is made, that Rome (the then world city) is on seven hills
	(whence heathen Rome had a national festival called Septimontium,
	the feast of the seven-hilled city [PLUTARCH];
	and on the imperial coins, just as here, she is represented as a
	woman seated on seven hills. Coin of Vespasian, described by
	CAPTAIN SMYTH
	[Roman Coins, p. 310; ACKERMAN,
	1, p. 87]). The seven heads can hardly be at once seven kings
	or kingdoms (Revelation 17:10),
	and seven geographical mountains. The true connection is, as
	the head is the prominent part of the body, so the mountain
	is prominent in the land. Like "sea" and "earth"and
	"waters . . . peoples" (Revelation 17:10- :), so "mountains" have a symbolical meaning,
	namely, prominent seats of power. Especially such as are prominent
	hindrances to the cause of God (Psalms 68:16;
	Psalms 68:17; Isaiah 40:4;
	Isaiah 41:15; Isaiah 49:11;
	Ezekiel 35:2); especially Babylon
	(which geographically was in a plain, but spiritually is
	called a destroying mountain, Ezekiel 35:2- :), in majestic contrast to which stands Mount Zion, "the
	mountain of the Lord's house" (Ezekiel 35:2- :), and the heavenly mount; Ezekiel 35:2- :, "a great and high mountain . . . and that great city,
	the holy Jerusalem." So in Ezekiel 35:2- :, the stone becomes a mountain—Messiah's
	universal kingdom supplanting the previous world kingdoms. As nature
	shadows forth the great realities of the spiritual world, so
	seven-hilled Rome is a representative of the seven-headed world power
	of which the dragon has been, and is the prince. The "seven
	kings" are hereby distinguished from the "ten kings"
	(Revelation 17:12): the former are
	what the latter are not, "mountains," great seats of the
	world power. The seven universal God-opposed monarchies are Egypt
	(the first world power which came into collision with God's people,)
	Assyria, Babylon, Greece, Medo-Persia, Rome, the Germanic-Slavonic
	empire (the clay of the fourth kingdom mixed with its iron in
	Nebuchadnezzar's image, a fifth material, Daniel 2:33;
	Daniel 2:34; Daniel 2:42;
	Daniel 2:43, symbolizing this last
	head). These seven might seem not to accord with the seven heads in
	Daniel 7:4-7, one head
	on the first beast (Babylon), one on the second (Medo-Persia),
	four on the third (Greece; namely, Egypt, Syria, Thrace with
	Bithynia, and Greece with Macedon): but Egypt and Greece are in both
	lists. Syria answers to Assyria (from which the name Syria is
	abbreviated), and Thrace with Bithynia answers to the
	Gothic-Germanic-Slavonic hordes which, pouring down on Rome from the
	North, founded the Germanic-Slavonic empire. The woman sitting on
	the seven hills implies the Old and New Testament Church
	conforming to, and resting on, the world power, that is, on all the
	seven world kingdoms. Abraham and Isaac dissembling as to their wives
	through fear of the kings of Egypt foreshadowed this. Compare Ezekiel 16:1-63;
	Ezekiel 23:1-49, on Israel's
	whoredoms with Egypt, Assyria, Babylon; and Matthew 7:24;
	Matthew 24:10-12; Matthew 24:23-26,
	on the characteristics of the New Testament Church's harlotry,
	namely, distrust, suspicion, hatred, treachery, divisions into
	parties, false doctrine.