8. beast . . . was, and is
	not—(Compare Revelation 17:11).
	The time when the beast "is not" is the time during which
	it has "the deadly wound"; the time of the seventh head
	becoming Christian externally, when its beast-like character was put
	into suspension temporarily. The healing of its wound answers
	to its ascending out of the bottomless pit. The beast, or
	Antichristian world power, returns worse than ever, with satanic
	powers from hell (Revelation 11:7), not
	merely from the sea of convulsed nations (Revelation 11:7- :). Christian civilization gives the beast only a temporary
	wound, whence the deadly wound is always mentioned in
	connection with its being healed up the non-existence of the
	beast in connection with its reappearance; and Daniel does not even
	notice any change in the world power effected by Christianity. We are
	endangered on one side by the spurious Christianity of the harlot, on
	the other by the open Antichristianity of the beast; the third class
	is Christ's little flock." 
	go—So B, Vulgate,
	and ANDREAS read the
	future tense. But A and IRENÆUS,
	"goeth." 
	into perdition—The
	continuance of this revived seventh (that is, the eighth) head is
	short: it is therefore called "the son of perdition," who
	is essentially doomed to it almost immediately after his appearance. 
	names were—so Vulgate
	and ANDREAS. But A, B,
	Syriac, and Coptic read the singular, "name is."
	written in—Greek,
	"upon." 
	which—rather, "when
	they behold the beast that it was," &c. So Vulgate.
was, and is not, and yet
	is—A, B, and ANDREAS
	read, "and shall come" (literally, "be present,"
	namely, again: Greek, "kai parestai"). The
	Hebrew, "tetragrammaton," or sacred four
	letters in Jehovah, "who is, who was, and who is to
	come," the believer's object of worship, has its contrasted
	counterpart in the beast "who was, and is not, and shall be
	present," the object of the earth's worship [BENGEL].
	They exult with wonder in seeing that the beast which had
	seemed to have received its death blow from Christianity, is on
	the eve of reviving with greater power than ever on the ruins of
	that religion which tormented them (Revelation 11:7- :).