5. For—confirming the
	assertion, Hebrews 2:2; Hebrews 2:3,
	that the new covenant was spoken by One higher than the mediators of
	the old covenant, namely, angels. Translate in the Greek
	order, to bring out the proper emphasis, "Not the angels hath
	He," c. 
	the world to come—implying,
	He has subjected to angels the existing world, the Old
	Testament dispensation (then still partly existing as to its
	framework), Hebrews 2:2, the
	political kingdom of the earth (Daniel 4:13
Daniel 10:13; Daniel 10:20;
	Daniel 10:21; Daniel 12:1),
	and the natural elements (Revelation 9:11;
	Revelation 16:4). and even individuals
	(Matthew 18:10). "The world to
	come" is the new dispensation brought in by Christ, beginning in
	grace here, to be completed in glory hereafter. It is called "to
	come," or "about to be," as at the time of its being
	subjected to Christ by the divine decree, it was as yet a thing of
	the future, and is still so to us, in respect to its full
	consummation. In respect to the subjecting of all things to
	Christ in fulfilment of Matthew 18:10- :, the realization is still "to come." Regarded
	from the Old Testament standpoint, which looks prophetically forward
	to the New Testament (and the Jewish priesthood and Old Testament
	ritual were in force then when Paul wrote, and continued till their
	forcible abrogation by the destruction of Jerusalem), it is "the
	world to come"; Paul, as addressing Jews, appropriately calls it
	so, according to their conventional way of viewing it. We, like them,
	still pray, "Thy kingdom come"; for its manifestation
	in glory is yet future. "This world" is used in contrast to
	express the present fallen condition of the world (Matthew 18:10- :). Believers belong not to this present world course, but by
	faith rise in spirit to "the world to come," making it a
	present, though internal. reality. Still, in the present world,
	natural and social, angels are mediately rulers under God in some
	sense: not so in the coming world: man in it, and the Son of man,
	man's Head, are to be supreme. Hence greater reverence was paid to
	angels by men in the Old Testament than is permitted in the New
	Testament. For man's nature is exalted in Christ now, so that angels
	are our "fellow servants" (Matthew 18:10- :). In their ministrations they stand on a different footing
	from that on which they stood towards us in the Old Testament. We are
	"brethren" of Christ in a nearness not enjoyed even by
	angels (Hebrews 2:10-12;
	Hebrews 2:16).