3. we—who have received the
	message of salvation so clearly delivered to us (compare  :-). 
	so great salvation—embodied
	in Jesus, whose very name means "salvation," including not
	only deliverance from foes and from death, and the grant of temporal
	blessings (which the law promised to the obedient), but also grace of
	the Spirit, forgiveness of sins, and the promise of heaven, glory,
	and eternal life (Hebrews 2:10). 
	which—"inasmuch
	as it is a salvation which began," c. 
	spoken by the Lord—as
	the instrument of proclaiming it. Not as the law, spoken by the
	instrumentality of angels (Hebrews 2:2).
	Both law and Gospel came from God the difference here referred to lay
	in the instrumentality by which each respectively was
	promulgated (compare Hebrews 2:5).
	Angels recognize Him as "the Lord" (Matthew 28:6;
	Luke 2:11). 
	confirmed unto us—not
	by penalties, as the law was confirmed, but by spiritual gifts
	(Hebrews 2:4). 
	by them that heard him
—(Compare Luke 1:2). Though
	Paul had a special and independent revelation of Christ (Galatians 1:16;
	Galatians 1:17; Galatians 1:19),
	yet he classes himself with those Jews whom he addresses, "unto
	us"; for like them in many particulars (for example, the agony
	in Gethsemane, Hebrews 5:7), he was
	dependent for autoptic information on the twelve apostles. So the
	discourses of Jesus, for example, the Sermon on the Mount, and
	the first proclamation of the Gospel kingdom by the Lord (Hebrews 5:7- :), he could only know by the report of the Twelve: so the
	saying, "It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Hebrews 5:7- :). Paul mentions what they had heard, rather than
	what they had seen, conformably with what he began with,
	Hebrews 1:1; Hebrews 1:2,
	"spake . . . spoken." Appropriately also in his Epistles to
	Gentiles, he dwells on his independent call to the apostleship of the
	Gentiles; in his Epistle to the Hebrews, he appeals to the apostles
	who had been long with the Lord (compare Acts 1:21;
	Acts 10:41): so in his sermon to
	the Jews in Antioch of Pisidia (Acts 10:41- :); and "he only appeals to the testimony of these
	apostles in a general way, in order that he may bring the Hebrews to
	the Lord alone" [BENGEL],
	not to become partisans of particular apostles, as Peter, the apostle
	of the circumcision, and James, the bishop of Jerusalem. This verse
	implies that the Hebrews of the churches of Palestine and Syria
	(or those of them dispersed in Asia Minor [BENGEL],
	1 Peter 1:1, or in Alexandria) were
	primarily addressed in this Epistle; for of none so well could it be
	said, the Gospel was confirmed to them by the immediate hearers of
	the Lord: the past tense, "was confirmed," implies some
	little time had elapsed since this testification by eye-witnesses.