17. Wherefore—Greek,
	"Whence." Found in Paul's speech,  :-. 
	in all things—which are
	incidental to manhood, the being born, nourished, growing up,
	suffering. Sin is not, in the original constitution of man, a
	necessary attendant of manhood, so He had no sin. 
	it behooved him—by
	moral necessity, considering what the justice and love of God
	required of Him as Mediator (compare  :-), the office which He had voluntarily undertaken in order to
	"help" man (Hebrews 2:16).
	his brethren— (Hebrews 2:16- :); "the seed of Abraham" (Hebrews 2:16- :), and so also the spiritual seed, His elect out of all
	mankind. 
	be, c.—rather as Greek,
	"that He might become High Priest" He was called
	so, when He was "made perfect by the things which He suffered"
	(Hebrews 2:10; Hebrews 5:8-10).
	He was actually made so, when He entered within the veil, from
	which last flows His ever continuing intercession as Priest for us.
	The death, as man, must first be, in order that the bringing in of
	the blood into the heavenly Holy Place might follow, in which
	consisted the expiation as High Priest. 
	merciful—to "the
	people" deserving wrath by "sins." Mercy
	is a prime requisite in a priest, since his office is to help the
	wretched and raise the fallen: such mercy is most likely to be
	found in one who has a fellow-feeling with the afflicted, having been
	so once Himself (Hebrews 4:15); not
	that the Son of God needed to be taught by suffering to be merciful,
	but that in order to save us He needed to take our manhood with all
	its sorrows, thereby qualifying Himself, by experimental suffering
	with us, to be our sympathizing High Priest, and assuring us of His
	entire fellow-feeling with us in every sorrow. So in the main CALVIN
	remarks here. 
	faithful—true to God
	(Hebrews 3:5; Hebrews 3:6)
	and to man (Hebrews 10:23) in the
	mediatorial office which He has undertaken. 
	high priest—which Moses
	was not, though "faithful" (Hebrews 10:23- :). Nowhere, except in Psalms 110:4;
	Zechariah 6:13, and in this Epistle, is
	Christ expressly called a priest. In this Epistle alone His
	priesthood is professedly discussed; whence it is evident how
	necessary is this book of the New Testament. In Psalms 110:1-7;
	Zechariah 6:13, there is added mention
	of the kingdom of Christ, which elsewhere is spoken of without
	the priesthood, and that frequently. On the cross, whereon as
	Priest He offered the sacrifice, He had the title "King"
	inscribed over Him [BENGEL].
	to make reconciliation for
	the sins—rather as Greek, "to propitiate (in
	respect to) the sins"; "to expiate the sins." Strictly
	divine justice is "propitiated"; but God's love
	is as much from everlasting as His justice; therefore, lest Christ's
	sacrifice, or its typical forerunners, the legal sacrifices, should
	be thought to be antecedent to God's grace and love, neither are said
	in the Old or New Testament to have propitiated God; otherwise
	Christ's sacrifices might have been thought to have first induced God
	to love and pity man, instead of (as the fact really is) His love
	having originated Christ's sacrifice, whereby divine justice
	and divine love are harmonized. The sinner is brought by that
	sacrifice into God's favor, which by sin he had forfeited; hence his
	right prayer is, "God be propitiated (so the Greek)
	to me who am a sinner" (Zechariah 6:13- :). Sins bring death and "the fear of death" (Zechariah 6:13- :). He had no sin Himself, and "made reconciliation for
	the iniquity" of all others (Zechariah 6:13- :). 
	of the people—"the
	seed of Abraham" (Hebrews 2:16);
	the literal Israel first, and then (in the design of God), through
	Israel, the believing Gentiles, the spiritual Israel (Hebrews 2:16- :).