 9 .] Explanation of this  loss , that it is the non-possession of God, which is incurred by all who abide not in Christ’s teaching.  Every one that goeth before (  you ) (such I believe to be the meaning of the somewhat difficult προάγων : every one who would set up for a teacher, ἔμπροσθεν τῶν προβάτων πορευόμενος , as John 10:4 , and they following. The expositors who take this reading interpret it, “goeth forward too fast,” “maketh false and unsound advance,” regarding it, either as ironical (so Huther), or as serious (so Düsterdieck)),  and not abiding in the doctrine of Christ (i. e. in Christ’s doctrine, that truth which Christ Himself taught. This is far more likely than that the gen. should be objective, as Bengel (“in doctrina, quæ Jesum docet esse filium Dei”), Lücke, Sander, al.: and thus we have the personal gen. after διδαχή wherever it occurs in the N. T.: cf. Matthew 7:28 [1] , Mark 4:2 , John 18:19 , Acts 2:42 , al. fr.),  hath not God (see 1Jn 2:23 ; 1 John 5:12 , notes):  he that abideth in the doctrine, that man hath both the Father and the Son (see as above. The order in the text is the theological one, the Father being mentioned first, then the Son. That in [2] &c. (see digest) is the logical and contextual one, seeing that the test is, abiding in the doctrine of Christ. Thus he has Christ, and through Him, the Father).
	 [1] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [2] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	