 7 .] The condition of Love is Truth, see 2 John 1:3 . And the necessity of fresh exhortation to walk in love, in that love whose condition is truth, lies in the fact that there are many deceivers gone forth, denying the Truth: of whom we are to beware, and not, by extending to them a spurious sympathy, to become partakers with them.  Because (see above.  ὅτι cannot be referred to βλέπετε ἑαυτούς , 2 John 1:8 , for its apodosis, as is done by Grot., Carpzov., J. Lange, as this would involve a length of protasis, broken by a parenthetical clause, οὗτός ἐστιν κ . τ . λ ., quite alien from St. John’s style. Nor can we well understand ὅτι with Bengel, “ratio cur jubeat retinere audita a principio:” because the foregoing is not a command “retinere audita a principio;” this latter particular being only introduced by the way, not as a principal feature)  many deceivers (makers to wander, see reff.)  went forth (here probably, on account of the aor., “from us,” as in 1 John 2:19 . In 1 John 4:1 , it is perf., ἐξεληλύθασιν , where I have preferred the sense, “are gone forth from him who sent them,” viz. the evil one. Huther prefers this latter sense here also)  into the world (namely) they who confess not (instead of οὐχ ὁμολογοῦντες , the Apostle writes  οἱ μὴ ὁμολογοῦντες , thereby not merely characterizing the πλάνοι as not confessing &c., but absolutely identifying all who repudiate the confession which follows, as belonging to the class of πλάνοι . The subjective  μή is the necessary consequence of such an arrangement, involving an hypothesis within the limits of the relative οἵ , the repudiation of the confession: see 1 John 4:3 , note)  Jesus Christ coming in (  the )  flesh (  ἐρχόμενον , altogether timeless, and representing the great truth of the Incarnation itself, as distinguished from its historical manifestation (  ἐλθών , 1Jn 5:6 ), and from the abiding effect of that historical manifestation (  ἐληλυθότα  , 1Jn 4:2 ): and all three, as confessions of the Person Ἰησοῦς χριστός , distinguished from the accus. with infin. construction: see note on 1 John 4:2 . He who denies the ἔρχεσθαι ἐν σαρκί , denies the  possibility of the Incarnation: he who denies the ἐλθεῖν or ἐληλυθέναι , denies its  actuality . Other interpretations, such as that of Œc., εἰπὼν δέ , …  ἐρχόμενον ἐν σαρκί , ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ  ἐλθόντα , ἐμφαίνοντός ἐστιν ὡς τοὺς ἀθετοῦντας λέγει τὴν δευτέραν τοῦ κυρίου παρουσίαν , … that of Erasm., Schlicht., Bengel, “  qui veniebat ,” and of Baumg.-Crus., “  who was to come ,” are beside the mark).  This (viz., “he that fulfils the above character.” No supply, such as ὂς οὖν μὴ ταῦτα ὁμολογεῖ , Œc., is needed. See the same construction, 1Jn 2:22 )  is the deceiver and the antichrist (see notes on 1 John 2:18 ; 1 John 2:22 , as to the personal relation of these πολλοί to the one great Antichrist of prophecy. The οὗτος , pointing to a class, makes each one of these, in his place, a representative and “præcursor Antichristi”).