 8 .] The warning is suddenly introduced without any coupling particle, and becomes thereby so much the more solemn and forcible.  Look to yourselves (the construction with the reflective pronoun is not usual, see reff.  ἑαυτούς here probably implies not as Bengel, “me absente,” but “yourselves,” as contrasted with the deceivers, that ye too become not as they),  that ye lose not the things which we wrought (i. e. that ye, Christian converts, lose not that your Christian state of truth and love which we, Apostles and Teachers, wrought in you. This not being understood, the verbs have been altered in the various texts to the first or to the second person to conform to one another. The Apostles were God’s ἐργάται , Matthew 9:37-38 ; Luke 10:2 ; Luk 10:7 ; 2 Timothy 2:15 ; the ψευδαπόστολοι were ἐργάται δόλιοι , 2 Corinthians 11:13 , κακοὶ ἐργάται , Philippians 3:2 ; the true ἔργον was to cause men to believe on Christ, John 6:29 ; and this ἔργον the false teachers put in peril of loss), but  receive reward in full (what  μισθός ? The connexion of  εἰργασάμεθα with  μισθόν must not be broken. The idea is a complex one. Ye, our converts, are our μισθός in the day of the Lord: and this has suggested the use of the well-known word, even where it manifestly applies not to the teachers but to the taught, whose μισθός is the eternal life, which shall receive on that day its glorious completion: which is ἔχειν τὸν υἱόν , κ . τὸν πατέρα : see 1 John 3:2 .
	If this reading be right, the use which Roman-Catholic expositors, as Bart.-Petrus, Mayer, al., have tried to make of this verse to establish the merit of human works (“opera bona per Spiritum Dei facta mercedem apud Deum mereri,” B.-Petrus), falls at once to the ground. Nor indeed does it fare much better if either of the other readings be taken. If the whole be in the first person, then the apostolic μισθός , the souls which are to be their hire, must be understood: if in the second, no human merit, but the reward laid up for faithfulness, and for every thing done in His name, must be understood, which is reckoned of grace, and not of debt).