 ΙΩΑΝΝΟΥ Β
	 1 3 .] ADDRESS AND GREETING.  The elder (the Apostle, known by this name: see prolegg., “On the writer of the Epistle”)  to the (not,  an : see prolegg. “whom the Epistle was written”)  elect lady (see prolegg. ibid.),  and to her children whom (  οὕς , masc., probably embraces the whole, mother and children of both sexes: see 3 John 1:1 . 2Jn 1:4 is no reason why we should regard the masc. relative as applying to sons only: when proceeding to single out some for praise, as there, he naturally speaks in the masculine)  I love in truth (not merely, in reality, as Œc., ἔστι γὰρ καὶ ἐπιπλάστως ἀγαπᾷν , στόματι : but in truth, such truth being the result, as stated below, of  the truth of the Gospel abiding in him: “amor non modo verus amor, sed veritate evangelica nititur.” Bengel. See 1 John 3:18 , and note on 1Jn 3:19 ),  and not I alone, but also all who know the truth (there is no need to limit this πάντες to all dwelling in or near the abode of the Writer, as Grot., Carpzov., De Wette, al., or all who were personally acquainted with those addressed, as Lücke: it is a general expression: the communion of love is as wide as the communion of faith),  on account of the truth (objective: God’s truth revealed in His Son, see 1Jn 2:4 ),  which abideth in us, and shall be with us (the Apostle continues the construction as if he had previously written ἣ μένει )  for ever (cf. John 14:16-17 . These words are a reminiscence of our Lord’s words there, παρ ʼ ὑμῖν μένει , καὶ ἐν ὑμῖν ἐστίν . The future is not the expression of a wish, as some, e. g. Lücke, have supposed; but of confidence, as that also which follows, which takes its tinge and form from this):  there shall be with us (by the  ἡμῶν the Apostle includes  himself in the greeting, as he had before done in the introductory clauses.  ἔσται , again, not a wish: see above: we must of necessity connect this second ἔσται with the first. But the very fact of a greeting being conveyed, must somewhat modify the absolute future sense, and introduce something of the votive character. It is as Bengel, “votum cum affirmatione” a wish expressed by a confident assertion of its fulfilment)  grace, mercy, peace (see reff. Trench says well, N. T. Synonyms, pp. 164, 5, edn. 1865, “ χάρις has reference to the  sins of men, ἔλεος to their  misery . God’s  χάρις , His free grace and gift, is extended to men as they are guilty: His  ἔλεος is extended to them as they are miserable.” And thus χάρις always comes first, because guilt must be done away, before misery can be assuaged: see further in Trench, and in Düsterdieck, h.l.  εἰρήνη is the whole sum and substance of the possession and enjoyment of God’s grace and mercy; cf. Luke 2:14 ; Romans 5:1 ( Rom 10:15 ); John 14:27 ; Joh 16:33 )  from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Son of the Father (from the Father as their original fountain, who of His great love hath decreed and secured them for us: from Jesus Christ the Son of the Father, this solemn title being used for the more complete setting forth of the union of Jesus with the Father in the essence of the Godhead),  in truth and love (not to be understood of the Holy Spirit, the third Person in the blessed Trinity, as Lyra, nor to be joined with τοῦ υἱοῦ τ . πατρός , “filio verissimo et dilectissimo,” as Barthol.-Petrus (continuator of Estius) and Whitby, nor to be filled up by “ut perseveretis,” as Corn.-a-lap., nor to be taken as adding two more to χάρις ἔλεος εἰρήνη , making ἐν =  cum , as Tirinus and Schlichting; nor as Grot., al. is it “per cognitionem veri et dilectionem mutuam: nam per hæc Dei beneficia provocamus, conservamus, augemus:” but the real sense is an approximation to this last; truth and love are the conditional element in which the grace, mercy, and peace are to be received and enjoyed. So Bengel, Lücke, De Wette, Huther, Düsterdieck).