 1, 2 .]  Command to measure the temple, but not the outer court, which is given to the Gentiles .  And there was given to me (by  whom , is not said, but it is left indefinite, as at ch. Revelation 6:11 , Rev 8:2 )  a reed like to a staff (see reff.)  saying (  λέγων is  out of the construction, and indefinite: as in ch. Revelation 4:1 . Andr [107] , in Catena, imagines that it is the  reed that speaks, and builds an allegorical interpretation on the idea: πῶς γὰρ ὁ κάλαμος ἄψυχος ὢν ἔλεγεν Ἔγειραι κ . τ . λ .; ἐκ τούτου οὖν δείκνυται , ἀγγελικῇ συνέσει μετρεῖσαι τὸν ναὸν τοῦ θεοῦ . And so in our own time, remarkably enough, Bp. Wordsworth: “The Reed speaks: it is inspired: the Spirit is in it: it is the Word of God. And it measures the Church: that is, the Canon of Scripture is the rule of faith.” (Thus in his Lectures on the Apocalypse. In his notes ad loc., he treats λέγων as absolute.)),  Arise (  ἔγειρε does not necessarily imply that the Apostle was kneeling before: see reff.)  and measure the temple of God and the altar (apparently, the altar of incense: as that alone stood in the ναός . But perhaps we must not be too minute in particularizing),  and them that worship in it (see the previous remarks on this prophecy. The  measuring here is evidently for the purpose of taking account of, understanding the bearing and dimensions of, that which is to be measured; see ch. Revelation 21:15 , where the heavenly Jerusalem is measured by the angel. But here two questions arise: 1) What is that which is measured? and 2) when does the measuring take place? 1) I have no doubt that, as above hinted, the ναὸς τ . θεοῦ and its θυσιαστήριον are to be here taken symbolically, as the other principal features of the prophecy: and to one believing this, there can be but little further doubt as to what meaning he shall assign to the terms. Thus understood, they can only bear one meaning: viz., that of the Church of the elect servants of God, every where in this book symbolized by Jews in deed and truth. The society of these, as a whole, is the ναός , agreeably to Scripture symbolism elsewhere, e. g. 1 Corinthians 3:16-17 , and is symbolized by the inner or holy place of the Jerusalem temple, in and among which they as true Israelites and priests unto God, have a right to worship and minister. These are they who, properly speaking, alone are  measured : estimated again and again in this book by tale and number partakers in the first resurrection, the Church of the first-born. Then as to our question 2), it is one which, so far as I know, has not engaged the attention of expositors. When a command is elsewhere in this book given to the Seer, we may observe that his fulfilment of it is commonly indicated. He is commanded to write, and the writing before us proves his obedience. He is ordered to take the little book, καὶ ἀπῆλθον κ . τ . λ . But of the fulfilment by him of this command, ἔγειρε καὶ μέτρησον , no hint appears to be given. The voice goes on continuously, until it melts imperceptibly into the narrative of the vision. After this, we hear no more of the measuring, till another and more glorious building is measured in ch. 21. This being so, either 1) which is inconceivable, the measurement does not take place at all, or, 2) which is hardly probable, it takes place and no result is communicated to us, or 3) the result of it is found in the subsequent prophecies: in the minute and careful distinctions between the servants of God and those who receive the mark of the wild-beast in all those indications which point out to us the length and breadth and depth and height, both of faith, and of unfaithfulness).  And the court which is outside the temple (i. e. apparently, every thing except the ναός itself: not merely the outer court or court of the Gentiles. That only the ναός itself, in the strictest sense, is to be measured, is significant for the meaning above maintained)  cast out (of thy measurement. But these strong words, conveying so slight a meaning, doubtless bear in them a tinge also of the stronger meaning, “reckon as profane,” “account not as included in the sacred precinct”),  and measure not it (  αὐτήν has a slight emphasis: otherwise it need not have been expressed),  because it was given (viz. at the time when the state of things subsisting in the vision came in: or, in God’s apportionment)  to the Gentiles (if the ναός and the προσκυνοῦντες represent the elect church of the first-born, the ἔθνη will correspond to those who are outside this sacred enclosure: those over whom eventually the millennial reign of ch. 20 shall be exercised: those from among whom shall spring the enmity against God’s church, but among whom also shall be many who shall fear, and give God glory, cf. Revelation 11:13 . Of these is formed the outward seeming church, mixed up with the world; in them, though not in each case commensurate with them, is Babylon, is the reign of the wild-beast, the agency of the false prophet: they are the κατοικοῦντες τὴν γῆν or ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , the material on which judgment and mercy are severally exercised in the rest of this book (cf. especially Rev 11:18 ), as contrasted with God’s own people, gathered and to be gathered out from among them),  and they shall tread down (i. e. trample as conquerors, the outer church being in subjection to them: see reff. The other meaning,  shall tread , merely, is of course included; but must not be made the prevalent one. The period named shall be one during which ἡ βασιλεία τῶν οὐρανῶν βιάζεται , καὶ βιασταὶ ἁρπάζουσιν αὐτήν , Mat 11:12 )  the holy city (Jerusalem, in the literal sense of the prophecy: the whole temple except the ναός itself being counted with the city outside)  forty and two months (this period occurs in three forms in this book: 1) as forty-two months; see ch. Revelation 13:5 . Revelation 13:2 ) as 1260 days = 42 months × 30, see Revelation 11:3 , ch. Revelation 12:6 . Revelation 12:3 ) as time, times, and half a time = 3½ years, 3 × 360 + 180 = 1260 days, see ch.Revelation 12:14 . This latter designation is also found in Daniel 7:25 ; Daniel 12:7 . With respect to these periods, I may say that,  equal as they certainly seem to be, we have no right to suppose them, in any two given Cases, to be  identical , unless the context requires such a supposition. For instance, in Revelation 11:2-3 , there is strong temptation to regard the two equal periods as coincident and identical: but it is plain that such a view is not required by the context; the prophecy contains no note of such coincidence, but may be very simply read without it, on the view that the two periods are equal in duration, but independent of one another: and the rather, that this prophecy, as has been already shewn, is of a compendious character, hereafter to be stated at large. I will further remark, and the reader will find this abundantly borne out by research into histories of apocalyptic exegesis, that no solution at all approaching to a satisfactory one has ever yet been given of any one of these periods. This being so, my principle is to regard them as being still among the things unknown to the Church, and awaiting their elucidation by the event. It is our duty to feel our way by all the indications which Scripture furnishes, and by the light which history, in its main and obvious salient events, has thrown on Scripture: and, when those fail us, to be content to confess our ignorance. An apocalyptic commentary which explains every thing, is self-convicted of error).
	[107] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.