 15 19 .]  The seventh trumpet .  And the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were great voices in heaven (notice, a) that the seventh seal, the seventh trumpet, and the seventh vial, are all differently accompanied from any of the preceding series in each case. b) At each seventh member of the series we hear what is done, not on earth, but in heaven, the half-hour’s silence, the song of thanksgiving, the voice from the temple and the throne, saying, “It is done.” c) At each seventh member likewise we have it related in the form of a solemn conclusion, 1) ἐγένοντο βρονταὶ καὶ φωναὶ καὶ ἀστραπαὶ καὶ σεισμός , ch. Revelation 8:5 , 2) ἐγένοντο ἀστραπαὶ καὶ φωναὶ καὶ βρονταὶ καὶ σεισμὸς καὶ χάλαζα μεγάλη , ch. Revelation 11:19 , 3) ἐγένοντο ἀστραπαὶ καὶ φωναὶ καὶ βρονταὶ , καὶ σεισμὸς ἐγένετο μέγας κ . τ . λ ., ch. Revelation 16:18 ff. d) At each seventh member we have plain indication in the imagery or by direct expression, that the end is come, or close at hand: 1) by the imagery of the sixth seal, and the two episodes, preceding the seventh seal: 2) by the declaration here, ἦλθεν ὁ καιρὸς τῶν νεκρῶν κριθῆναι : 3) by the Γέγονεν sounding from the temple and the throne on the pouring out of the seventh vial. e) All this forms strong ground for inference, that the three series of visions are not continuous, but resumptive: not indeed going over the same ground with one another, either of time or of occurrence, but each evolving something which was not in the former, and putting the course of God’s Providence in a different light. It is true, that the seals involve the trumpets, the trumpets the vials: but it is not in mere temporal succession: the involution and inclusion are far deeper: the world-wide vision of the seals containing the cry for vengeance, out of which is evolved the series of the trumpets: and this again containing the episodical visions of the little book and the witnesses, out of which are evolved the visions of ecclesiastical faithfulness and apostasy which follow),  saying (whose these voices were, is not specified: but we may fairly assume them to have been those of the armies of heaven and the four living-beings, as distinguished from the twenty-four elders which follow.
	For the masc. part., see ref.),  The Kingdom of the world (i. e.  over this world: ἡ βασιλεία abstract. In the received text, reading αἱ βασιλείαι , it is  the kingdoms , concrete,  of the world )  is become (aor., but alluding to the result of the whole series of events past, and not to be expressed in English except by a perfect)  our Lord’s and of His Christ (no supply, such as “  the Kingdom ,” is required: nor is this the case even in the rec. text. The gen. in both cases is one merely of possession),  and He (no emphasis on  He , as we are almost sure to lay on it, perhaps from the accent unavoidable in the Hallelujah Chorus of Handel)  shall reign to the ages of the ages (this announcement necessarily belongs to the time close on the millennial reign: and this is no more than we might expect from the declaration of the strong angel in ch. Rev 10:7 ).  And the twenty-four elders (representing the church in glory)  which before God sat upon their thrones (or, omitting the οἱ ,  sitting upon their thrones before God), fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, saying, We give thanks to Thee, O Lord God the Almighty (this ascription of thanks is the return for the answer to the prayers of the saints furnished by the judgments of the trumpets),  who art and wast (for construction, see reff.),  because Thou hast taken Thy great might and hast reigned (on the aor., see above).  And the nations were angry (see ref. Ps.),  and Thine anger came, and the time of the dead to be judged (another indication that the end is at hand when these words are spoken),  and (  the time )  to give their reward to Thy servants the prophets (see reff. and especially Matthew 10:41 , to which reference seems to be made),  and to the saints, and to them that fear Thy name, the small and the great (the three terms together include the whole church),  and to destroy the destroyers of (so is the pres. part. best rendered)  the earth (all this looks onward to judgments and acts of God yet to come when the words are spoken. The thanksgiving is not that God hath done all this, but that the hour is come for it all to take place. Before it does, another important series of visions has to be unfolded).