 3 13 .] THE TWO WITNESSES:  their testimony, death, resurrection, ascension: consequences on the beholders . The remarks just made are here especially applicable. No solution has ever been given of this portion of the prophecy. Either the two witnesses are literal, two individual men, or they are symbolical, two individuals taken as the concentration of principles and characteristics, and this either in themselves, or as representing men who embodied those principles and characteristics. In the following notes I shall point out how far one, how far another of these views, is favoured by the text, and leave the reader to judge.  And I will give to my two witnesses (the heavenly voice is still speaking in the name of Christ. That we must not press the μον to the inference that Christ himself speaks, is plain by ὅπου καὶ ὁ κύριος αὐτῶν ἐσταυρώθη below. The art.  τοῖς seems as if the two witnesses were well known, and distinct in their individuality. The  δυσίν is essential to the prophecy, and is not to be explained away. No interpretation can be right which does not, either in individuals, or in characteristic lines of testimony, retain and bring out this dualism. See further below. As regards the construction, δώσω is followed, not by an infin., but by the less usual apodosis, καὶ προφητεύσουσιν κ . τ . λ . Nothing need be supplied after δώσω , as is done by Lyra and Corn.-a-lap. (“constantiam et sapientiam”) and Beza (“sanctam civitatem,” which is decidedly wrong, seeing it is given to the Gentiles)),  and they shall prophesy (  προφητεύσουσιν here has generally been taken to mean,  shall preach repentance . It may be so: but in ch. Revelation 10:11 , the verb is used in its later and stricter sense of foretelling events, as in 1 Peter 1:10 ; Jude 1:14 . If their testimony consisted in denouncing judgment, the other would necessarily be combined with it)  a thousand two hundred and sixty days (Düsterd. remarks that the fact of a period of the same length as the forty-two months being now expressed in  days , implies that they will prophesy day by day throughout it. The reader will of course see, that the two questions, of these days being  days or  years , and of the individuality or the symbolical character of the witnesses, are mutually connected together. He will also bear in mind that it is a pure assumption that the two periods, the forty-two months and the 1260 days, coincide over the same space of time. The duration of time is that during which the power of Elijah’s prophecy shut up the heaven: viz. three years and six months: see Luke 4:25 , and more on Rev 11:6 below)  clothed in sackcloth (in token of need of repentance and of approaching judgment: see Isaiah 22:12 ; Jeremiah 4:8 ; Jeremiah 6:26 ; Jonah 3:5 . Certainly this portion of the prophetic description strongly favours the individual interpretation. For first, it is hard to conceive how whole bodies of men and churches could be thus described: and secondly, the principal symbolical interpreters have left out, or passed very slightly, this important particular. One does not see how bodies of men who lived like other men (their being the victims of persecution is another matter), can be said to have prophesied  clothed in sackcloth . It is to be observed that such was the garment of Elijah; see 2 Kings 1:8 , and cf. Mat 3:4 ).  These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks which stand before the Lord of the earth (the whole from ref. Zech., to which the art.  αἱ refers. But it is to be observed that while in Zech. we have the two ἐλαῖαι , and spoken of in the same terms as here, there is but one λυχνία , with its seven lights, which very seven lights, as there interpreted in Revelation 11:10 , are referred to in our ch. Revelation 4:5 , Revelation 5:6 . So that it is somewhat difficult to say, whence αἱ δύο λυχνίαι has come. The most probable view is that St. John has taken up and amplified the prophetic symbolism of Zechariah, carrying it on by the well-known figure of lights, as representing God’s testifying servants. Who the two “sons of oil” in the prophet were, whether Zerubbabel and Joshua, or the prophets Zechariah and Haggai, is of no import to our text here):  and if any one be minded to harm them, fire goeth forth (the pres., of that which is habitual and settled, though yet future: see also on Rev 11:7 below)  out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies (so Elijah, 2 Kings 1:10 ff.; and so ran the word of promise to Jeremiah (ref.), ἰδοὺ ἐγὼ δέδωκα τοὺς λόγους μου εἰς τὸ στόμα σου πῦρ , καὶ τὸν λαὸν τοῦτον ξύλα , καὶ καταφάγεται αὐτούς : the two being here combined together. Cf. also Sir 48:1 , ἀνέστη Ἠλίας προφήτης ὡς πῦρ , καὶ ὁ λόγος αὐτοῦ ὡς λαμπὰς ἐκαίετο  ); and if any one be minded to harm them, after this manner (see Sir 48:3 )  he must be killed (this whole description is most difficult to apply, on the allegorical interpretation; as is that which follows. And as might have been expected, the allegorists halt and are perplexed exceedingly. The double announcement here seems to stamp the literal sense, and the εἴ τις and δεῖ αὐτὸν ἀποκτανθῆναι are decisive against any mere  national application of the words (as Elliott).  Individuality could not be more strongly indicated).  These have (see on the pres. above) [  the ]  power to shut the heaven, that the rain may not rain during the days of their prophecy (as did Elijah: the duration of the time also corresponding: see reff.):  and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood (as had Moses, ref.),  and to smite the earth with (the ἐν of investiture. See ref. 1 Kings, from which, applying to the plagues in Egypt, the expression is taken)  every plague as often as they shall be minded (all this points out the spirit and power of Moses, combined with that of Elias. And undoubtedly, it is in these two directions that we must look for the two witnesses, or lines of witnesses. The one impersonates the law, the other the prophets. The one reminds us of the prophet whom God should raise up like unto Moses; the other of Elias the prophet, who should come before the great and terrible day of the Lord; ὁ καταγραφεὶς ἐν ἐλεγμοῖς εἰς καιρούς , κοπάσαι ὀργὴν πρὸ θυμοῦ , Sir 48:10 . But whether we are to regard these prophecies as to be fulfilled by individuals, or by lines of testimony, must depend entirely on the indications here given).  And when they had finished (  τελέσωσιν is a futurus exactus, implying, as plainly as words can imply it, that the whole period of their testimony will be at an end when that which is next said shall happen. All attempts of the allegorical expositors to escape this plain meaning of the words are in vain. Such is that of Mede, “when they shall be about finishing:” of Daubuz, “whilst they shall perform:” of Elliott, “when they shall have completed their testimony,” meaning thereby not the whole course of it, but any one complete delivery of it which others might have followed)  their testimony, the wild-beast that cometh up out of the abyss (this is the first mention of the wild-beast; and the whole description, as remarked above, is anticipatory. The pres. part. ἀναβαῖνον gives simply  designation , as so often: and is not to be interpreted future, as Elliott, “that is to ascend.” The  character of the beast is that he ascendeth out of the abyss; just as the tempter of our Lord is called ὁ πειράζων , Matthew 4:3 , though the narrative is in the past tense.
	This wild-beast is evidently identical with that mentioned in ch. Revelation 17:8 , of which the same term is used, ὃ μέλλει ἀναβαίνειν ἐκ τῆς ἀβύσσου : and if so, with that also which is introduced ch. Revelation 13:1 ff., as ἐκ τῆς θαλάσσης θηρίον ἀναβαῖνον , seeing that the same details, of the seven heads and ten horns, are ascribed to the two. But, though the appellation is anticipatory as far as this book is concerned, the beast spoken of was already familiar to its readers from Daniel 7:0 .: see below)  shall make war with them (see ref. Dan.),  and shall conquer them and kill them. And their corpse ( πτῶμα ,  das Gesaullene derselben , as Düsterd. gives it: “their wreck.” The singular is used, not for any mystical reason, as Wordsw. imagines (who interprets the two witnesses of the Old and New Testaments, and says, “The two witnesses have but  one body. They twain are one flesh. The two Testaments are one”), but simply as above, because πτῶμα does not properly signify a dead body, but that which has fallen, be it of one, or of many. Below, where the context requires the separate corpses to be specified, the less proper meaning of πτῶμα is adopted, and we have the plural) (  is ) (the present is best to supply, on account of the verbs following, which are in the present, until we come to πέμψουσιν : and with which the portion relating to the corpses is bound up)  upon the street (reff.)  of the great city (not Jerusalem (see above), which is never called by this name: but the ἡ πόλις ἡ μεγάλη of the succeeding visions, of which this is anticipatory and compendious),  namely, that which (  ἥτις , not = ἡ , but specifying and particularizing)  is called spiritually (i. e. allegorically; in a sense higher than the literal and obvious one. The only other place in which we find this usage of the word is in ref. 1 Cor., which see, and notes there)  Sodom and Egypt (those Commentators who maintain that the literal Jerusalem is here meant, allege Isaiah 1:9 ff., and Ezekiel 16:48 , as places where she is called Sodom. But the latter place is no example: for there Jerusalem is compared, in point of sinfulness, with her  sisters , Samaria and Sodom, and is not called Sodom at all. And in Isaiah 1:9 ff., Isaiah 1:1 ) it is not Jerusalem, but the Jewish people in general (see also Isa 3:9 ) that are called by this name: and that 2) not so much in respect of depravity, as of the desolation of Judæa, which ( Rev 11:7-9 ) almost equalled that of the devoted cities. And even supposing this to be a case in point, no instance can be alleged of Jerusalem being called Egypt, or any thing bearing such an interpretation. Whereas in the subsequent prophecy both these comparisons are naturally suggested with regard to the great city there mentioned: viz. that of Sodom by ch. Revelation 19:3 , ὁ καπνὸς αὐτῆς ἀναβαίνει εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας τῶν αἰώνων , compared with Genesis 19:28 , and that of Egypt, and indeed Sodom also, by ch. Revelation 18:4 ff., ἐξέλθατε ἐξ αὐτῆς ὁ λαός μου , κ . τ . λ .),  where their Lord also (as well as they: not the specific term ἐσταυρώθη , but the general fact of death by persecution, underlying it, being in the Writer’s mind)  was crucified (these words have principally led those who hold the literal Jerusalem to be meant. But if, as I believe I have shewn, such an interpretation is forbidden by the previous words, then we must not fall back on an erroneous view on account of the apparent requirements of these words, but enquire whether by the light of the subsequent prophecy, which is an expansion of this, we may find some meaning for them in accordance with the preceding conditions. And this is surely not difficult to discover. If we compare ch. Revelation 18:24 , καὶ ἐν αὐτῇ αἷμα προφητῶν κ . ἁγίων εὑρέθη κ . πάντων τῶν ἐσφαγμένων ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , with Matthew 23:35 , ὅπως ἔλθῃ ἐφ ʼ ὑμᾶς πᾶν αἷμα δίκαιον ἐκχυννόμενον ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , we shall find a wider ground than the mere literal Jerusalem on which to place the Lord’s own martyrdom and that of His saints. It is true, He was crucified at Jerusalem: but it is also true that He was crucified not in, but outside the city, and by the hands, not of Jews, but of Romans. The fact is that the literal Jerusalem, in whom was found the blood of all the saints who had been slain on earth, has been superseded by that wider and greater city, of which this prophecy speaks: and as the temple, in prophetic language, has become the church of God, so the outer city, in the same language, has become the great city which will be the subject of God’s final judgments. For those who consider this, there can be no hesitation in interpreting even this local designation also of this great city).  And some from among (construction, see reff.)  the peoples and tribes and languages and nations look upon (the prophetic history is carried on in the present, as in ch. Rev 18:11 compared with Revelation 18:9 , and elsewhere)  their corpse (see above)  three days and a half (on this period we may remark, that these 3½ days are connected by analogy with the periods previously mentioned: with the 1260 days and 42 months = 3½ years: and that in each case the half of the mystic number 7 enters. Also, that Elliott’s calculation of this period as 3½ years, by which he makes out that that period elapsed, “  precisely, to a day ,” between the ninth session of the Lateran council, and the posting up of the theses by Luther at Wittenberg, and on the accuracy of which he exclaims, “O wonderful prophecy! O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the foreknowledge of God!” labours under this fatal defect: that whereas his 3 years, from May 5, 1514, to May 5, 1517, are years of 365 days, his half-year, from May 5, 1517, to Oct. 31, of the same year, is “180, or half 360 days:” i. e. wanting 2½ days of the time required according to that reckoning. I may observe, that in his Apocalypsis Alfordiana, p. 128, he has  repeated this inconsistency ),  and do not permit ( ἀφίουσιν , as ἤφιεν in Mark 1:34 ; Mark 11:16 , is from the form ἀφίω . The same form occurs in Ecclesiastes 2:18 ; Philo, Leg. ad Cai. § 30, vol. ii., p. 576. See Winer, edn. 6, § 14. 3 [and Moulton’s note, p. 97. 2])  their corpses to be put into a tomb (the following exposition will hardly be credited: but is useful, as shewing how far away men can be led in forcing the sense in favour of a particular view. Wordsw. regards the two witnesses as the Old and New Testaments, and the beast that makes war with them as Papal Rome. On this clause, he says, “the original word here is μνήματα , not τάφους , and is to be rendered not  graves , but monuments: i. e. she has laboured that the Two Witnesses may not be committed to the immortal  monuments of Editions, Translations, and Expositions.” It will be hardly necessary to remind any N. T. student that μνῆμα never occurs in it in any sense but in the concrete one of a grave or tomb: see reff. The same is true of the LXX, where it occurs fifteen times. And again it is fatal to this strange exposition, that it is not the beast, but ἐκ τῶν λαῶν κ . φυλ . κ . γλ ., who will not permit their bodies to be put into a tomb. It may also be remarked, that it is now to a Roman printing press that we owe our only edition of the oldest published codex of the Greek Old and New Testaments).  And they that dwell upon the earth (see reff.: the godless world)  rejoice over them (at their fall: ἐπί with dat., of the close juxtaposition which connects a mental affection with its object)  and are glad and shall send gifts to one another (as on a day of festival, see reff.; and Winer, Realw. i. 411, art.  Geschenke ),  because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt upon the earth (viz. by the plagues above mentioned, Rev 11:5-6 ).  And after the three days and half, the Spirit of life (not,  a spirit : the whole diction is closely imitated from that used of the dry bones in Ezekiel 37:10 , where A reads εἰσῆλθεν εἰς αὐτοὺς νεῦμα ζωῆς : and no inference as to indefiniteness can be drawn from the absence of the art. from such a word as πνεῦμα )  from God (  may belong to ζωῆς only; but much better to πνεῦμα ζωῆς taken as one word. The art. τό would strictly be required, but may well be wanting in later Greek)  entered into them (the  ἐν would be a pregnant construction: entered into, so as to be in),  and they stood upon their feet (the very words of Ezek. l. c., but with one difference, the accus. πόδας , which, as remarked on ch. Revelation 4:2 , is characteristic of our Writer at the first mention of a superimposition),  and great fear fell upon those who beheld them. And they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them, Come up hither. And they went up to heaven in the cloud (or, as we more commonly say in English,  the clouds : viz. the cloud which ordinarily floats in the air; the mist: see ref.: not, as Wordsw., “the cloud of Christ’s glory:” nor needing, as Elliott, identification with any cloud previously mentioned in this book. But the ascension of the witnesses partakes of the character of His ascension. No attempt has been made to explain this ascension by those who interpret the witnesses figuratively of the Old and New Testaments or the like. The modern historical system, which can interpret such a Scripture phrase of “calling up to political ascendancy and power,” surely needs no refutation from me),  and their enemies beheld them. And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city (the great city, as above)  fell, and there were slain in the earthquake names of men (i. e. men themselves, the ὀνόματα shewing that the number is carefully and precisely stated, as if the name of each were recounted: see reff.: and more below)  seven thousands (i. e. the number 7000. In every place of the 23 where χιλιάς occurs in the N. T., it signifies simply the numeral 1000, and never a chiliad, or a province, as Elliott, forcing the expression to mean, in his historical interpretation, the seven Dutch united provinces (so also Cocceius), which were lost to the Papacy at the Reformation. He also forces ὀνόματα ἀνθρώπων out of its idiomatic sense to import “titles of dignity and command,” Duchies, Marquislates, Lordships),  and the rest (of the inhabitants of the city)  became terrified, and gave glory (it would be entirely needsess to contend that ἔδωκαν belongs to the name  subject as ἐγένοντο , viz. οἱ λοιποί , had not an attempt been made (Ell. ii. 466) to supply “the ascended witnesses” as a new subject. To say nothing of the inapplicability of the instances cited to justify such a view, our ch. Rev 14:7 is decisive against it, where men are exhorted φοβήθητε τὸν θεὸν καὶ δότε αὐτῷ δόξαν : as also ch. Revelation 16:9 , where the men tormented οὐ μετενόησαν δοῦναι αὐτῷ δόξαν . In fact, the  giving glory to God is not equivalent in the Scriptures to  thanking God , but is as Bengel notices, “character conversionis,” or at all events, the  recognition of God. The exceptions to this are more apparent than real, e. g. Luke 17:18 , where  recognition is the main feature: ch. Revelation 4:9 , where δόξαν does not stand alone. See also LXX, 1 Kings 6:5 . Jos 7:19 is a remarkable example of the ordinary meaning of the phrase)  to the God of heaven (an expression, see reff., confined to the later books of the O. T.).