Revelation 7:1. The words  After this denote succession of visions rather than of time.
	The Seer beholds four  angels standing at  the four corners of the earth. The number four is that of the world; and hence ‘the four corners,’ North, South, East, West, as well as four angels (comp. chap. Revelation 20:8). By the  winds which these angels hold fast we are no doubt in the first place to understand natural winds, although it is clear that storm-winds or tempests must be intended. Yet it is as impossible to think here of mere winds as it is to think of mere earthquakes or of mere changes in sun and moon in the preceding chapter. The idea of four storm-winds bursting forth, when they are let loose, from all the four quarters of the earth is too unnatural, almost too grotesque, to be entertained. The winds are those upon which the Almighty rides, and the symbols of His judgments (comp. 1 Kings 19:11; Jeremiah 22:22; Jeremiah 49:36; Ezekiel 1:4; Daniel 7:2; Zechariah 2:1; Revelation 6:13). But God stays them at His pleasure, and there is a calm. Thus Psalms 29:0 describes a storm coming up from the ‘great sea,’ shaking the land, dashing the cedar trees, and dividing the flames of fire. The storm, however, is in the hands of One who sitteth King for ever, who gives strength unto His people, who blesses His people with peace. It is to be noticed that the winds here are not only ready but eager to be let loose: hence the four angels do not only hold them, but hold them fast. The object is that no wind should blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. The word ‘tree’ is used in its ordinary sense, not as meaning the great ones of the earth, an interpretation that would necessarily lead us to think of the ‘sea’ as the mass of the heathen nations, and of the ‘land’ as the stubborn Jews. Such meanings may be possible. They are by no means out of keeping with the tone of the Apocalypse. But they are not natural at present. The word, therefore, ought to be taken literally ‘trees’ being probably selected from amongst other objects on the surface of the earth because they are the first to be prostrated before the storm-wind. The figure used in this verse is at once appropriate and natural. We may compare Hamlet’s account of his father’s care of his mother ‘So loving to my mother.  That he might not let even the winds of heaven
	 Visit her too roughly.’
	