Drink no longer water [μηκετι υδροποτει] . The verb N. T. o. o LXX Rend. be no longer a drinker of water. Timothy is not enjoined to abstain from water, but is bidden not to be a water - drinker, entirely abstaining from wine. The kindred noun uJdropothv is used by Greek comic writers to denote a mean - spirited person. See Aristoph. Knights, 319. But use a little wine [αλλα οινω ολιγω χρω] . The reverse antithesis appears in Hdt 1:171, of the Persians : oujk oinw diacreontai ajll' uJdropoteousi they do not indulge in wine but are water - drinkers. Comp. Plato, Repub. 561 C, tote men mequwn - auqiv de uJdropotwn sometimes he is drunk - then he is for total - abstinence. With a little wine comp. much wine, ch. 3 8; Titus 2:3. For thy stomach 's sake [δια στομαχον] . Stomacov N. T. o. o LXX The appearance at this point of this dietetic prescription, if it is nothing more, is sufficiently startling; which has led to some question whether the verse may not have been misplaced. If it belongs here, it can be explained only as a continuation of the thought in ver. 22, to the effect that Timothy is to keep himself pure by not giving aid and comfort to the ascetics, and imperilling his own health by adopting their rules of abstinence. Observe that oinov here, as everywhere else, means wine, fermented and capable of intoxicating, and not a sweet syrup made by boiling down grape - juice, and styled by certain modern reformers "unfermented wine." Such a concoction would have tended rather to aggravate than to relieve Timothy's stomachic or other infirmities. Thine often infirmities [τας πυκνας σου ασθενειας] . This use of often as an adjective appears in earlier English. So Chaucer : "Ofte sythes" or "tymes ofte," many times. Shakespeare : "In which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness" (As you like it, 4 1 19). And Ben Jonson : "The jolly wassal walks the often round." The Forest, 3 Even Tennyson : "Wrench'd or broken limb - an often chance In those brain - stunning shocks and tourney - falls." Gareth and Lynette. Puknov often, very common in Class. Originally, close, compact, comp. Lat. frequens. In this sense 3 Macc. 4 10, tw puknw sanidwmati the close planking of a ship 's deck. In N. T., except here, always adverbial, pukna or puknoteron often or oftener, Luke 5:33; Acts 24:26. Asqeneia weakness, infirmity, only here in Pastorals. In the physical sense, as here, Luke 5:15; Luke 8:2; John 5:5; Galatians 4:13. In the ethic sense, Romans 6:19; Romans 8:26.