 That we should sail  (του αποπλειν ημας). This genitive articular infinitive with εκριθη like the LXX construction translating the Hebrew infinitive construct is awkward in Greek. Several similar examples in Luke 17:1; Acts 10:25; Acts 20:3 (Robertson, Grammar, p. 1068). Luke alone uses this old verb in N.T. He uses nine compounds of πλεω, to sail. Note the reappearance of "we" in the narrative. It is possible, of course, that Luke was not with Paul during the series of trials at Caesarea, or at least, not all the time. But it is natural for Luke to use "we" again because he and Aristarchus are travelling with Paul. In Caesarea Paul was the centre of the action all the time whether Luke was present or not. The great detail and minute accuracy of Luke's account of this voyage and shipwreck throw more light upon ancient seafaring than everything else put together. Smith's Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul is still a classic on the subject. Though so accurate in his use of sea terms, yet Luke writes like a landsman, not like a sailor. Besides, the character of Paul is here revealed in a remarkable fashion.They delivered  (παρεδιδουν). Imperfect active ωμεγα form rather than the old -μ form παρεδιδοσαν as in Acts 4:33, from παραδιδωμ. Perhaps the imperfect notes the continuance of the handing over.Certain other prisoners  (τινας ετερους δεσμωτας). Bound (δεσμωτας) like Paul, but not necessarily appellants to Caesar, perhaps some of them condemned criminals to amuse the Roman populace in the gladiatorial shows, most likely pagans though ετερους does not have to mean different kind of prisoners from Paul.Of the Augustan band  (σπειρης Σεβαστης). Note Ionic genitive σπειρης, not σπειρας. See on Matthew 27:1; Acts 10:1. Χοορτις Αυγυσταε. We do not really know why this cohort is called "Augustan." It may be that it is part of the imperial commissariat (frumentarii) since Julius assumes chief authority in the grain ship (verse Acts 27:11). These legionary centurions when in Rome were called peregrini (foreigners) because their work was chiefly in the provinces. This man Julius may have been one of them. 