 Because the haven was not commodious to winter in  (ανευθετου του λιμενος υπαρχοντος προς παραχειμασιαν). Genitive absolute again present tense of υπαρχω: "The harbour being unfit (ανευθετου, this compound not yet found elsewhere, simplex in Luke 9:62; Luke 14:35; Hebrews 6:7) for wintering" (παραχειμασια, only here in N.T., but in Polybius and Diodorus, in an inscription A.D. 48, from παραχειμαζω).The more part advised  (ο πλειονες εθεντο βουλην). Second aorist middle indicative of τιθημ, ancient idiom with βουλην, to take counsel, give counsel. Lysias held a council of the officers of the ship on the issue raised by Paul.If by any means they could reach Phoenix and winter there  (ε πως δυναιντο καταντησαντες εις Φοινικα παραχειμασα). The optative δυναιντο (present middle of δυναμα) here with ε is a condition of the fourth class with the notion of purpose implied and indirect discourse (Robertson, Grammar, p. 1021). "We vote for going on the chance that we may be able" (Page). Phoenix is the town of palms (John 12:13), the modern Lutro, the only town in Crete on the southern coast with a harbour fit for wintering, though Wordsworth and Page argue for Phineka which suits Luke's description better. The verb παραχειμαζω, to winter, is from παρα and χειμων (see also Acts 28:11). Used in several Koine writers.Looking northeast and southeast  (βλεποντα κατα λιβα κα κατα χωρον). There are two ways of interpreting this language. Λιπς means the southwest wind and χωρος the northwest wind. But what is the effect of κατα with these words? Does it mean "facing" the wind? If so, we must read "looking southwest and northwest." But κατα can mean down the line of the wind (the way the wind is blowing). If so, then it is proper to translate "looking northeast and southeast." This translation suits Lutro, the other suits Phoenike. Ramsay takes it to be Lutro, and suggests that sailors describe the harbour by the way it looks as they go into it (the subjectivity of the sailors) and that Luke so speaks and means Lutro which faces northeast and southeast. On the whole Lutro has the best of the argument. 