 2 .]  Forget not hospitality to strangers (so in ref. 1 Pet., after recommending ἀγάπην ἐκτενῆ εἰς ἑαυτούς , he proceeds φιλόξενοι εἰς ἀλλήλους . Cf. also ref. Rom., and Titus 1:8 ; 1 Timothy 3:2 . Bleek remarks that the notices found in the writings of the enemies of Christianity shew how much this virtue was practised among the early believers: and refers to Julian, Ep. 49, and Lucian de Morte Peregrini, ch. 16):  for thereby (by exercising it)  some unawares entertained angels (viz. Abraham, Genesis 18:0 , Lot, Genesis 19:0 . Certainly it would appear at first sight from the former account, that Abraham regarded the “three men” from the first as angels: but the contrary view has nothing against it in the narrative, and was taken by the Jewish expositors: cf. Philo de Abr. § 22, vol. ii. p. 17, θεασάμενος τρεῖς ὡς ἄνδρας ὁδοιποροῦντας , οἱ δὲ θειοτέρας ὄντες φύσεως ἐλελήθεισαν : and Jos. Antt. i. 11. 2, θεασάμενος τρεῖς ἀγγέλους .… καὶ νομίσας εἶναι ξένους , ἠσπάσατό τε ἀναστάς , καὶ παρ ʼ αὐτῷ καταχθέντας παρεκάλει ξενίων μεταλαβεῖν . On the motive propounded, Calvin remarks, “Si quis objiciat rarum illud fuisse, responsio impromptu est, non angelos tantum recipi, sed Christum ipsum, quum pauperes in ejus nomine recipimus.” He further notices, “In Græcis elegans est allusio ( ἔλαθον and ἐπιλανθάνεσθε ) quæ Latine exprimi non potest.” On  ἔλαθον ξενίσαντες , Chrys. says, τί ἐστιν ἔλαθον ; οὐκ εἰδότες φησὶν ἐξένισαν : and Thl., ἀντὶ τοῦ ἠγνόησαν ὅτι ἄγγελοι ἦσαν οἱ ξενιζόμενοι , καὶ ὅμως φιλοτίμως αὐτοὺς ἐξένισαν . Cf. Herod. i. 44, οἰκίοισι ὑποδεξάμενος τὸν ξεῖνον φονέα τοῦ παιδὸς ἐλάν θανε βόσκων . The vulg. rendering, “latuerunt quidam angelis hospitio receptis,” has led some R.-Cath. expositors mentioned in Estius to imagine that Lot’s escape by the men of Sodom being smitten with blindness is alluded to. Bleek refers to, and with reason, a very beautiful sermon of Schleiermacher’s, vol. i. p. 645, “Ueber die Christliche Gastfreundschaft.” He there sets forth, how the motive, though no longer literally applying to us, is still a real one, inasmuch as angels were the messengers of God’s spiritual purposes, and such messengers may be found in Christian guests, even where least expected).