 21 .]  perfect you ( πληρώσαι , τελειώσαι , Œc. μαρτυρεῖ αὐτοῖς μεγάλα · τὸ γὰρ καταρτιζόμενόν ἐστι τὸ ἀρχὴν ἔχον , εἶτα πληρούμενον , Chrys. Still, as Bleek remarks, the praise of having made a beginning is not necessarily involved in the wish that they may be perfected)  in every good work, towards the doing His will (cf. ch. Hebrews 10:36 . The expression here is in the same final sense as there, as the aor. shews: it is not εἰς τὸ ποιεῖν , ‘to the habit of doing,’ but εἰς τὸ ποιῆσαι , ‘to the having done,’ i. e. ‘to the accomplishing’),  doing in you (  ποιῶν chosen expressly as taking up εἰς τὸ  ποιῆσαι , in exact correspondence with St. Paul’s saying Philippians 2:13 , ὁ  ἐνεργῶν ἐν ὑμῖν καὶ τὸ θέλειν καὶ τὸ  ἐνεργεῖν ) that  which is well-pleasing in His sight ( ἐνώπιον τοῦ θεοῦ , an expression of St. Luke’s principally. It is a pregnant construction, involving τὸ ἀγαθὸν ἐνώπιον αὐτοῦ , καὶ διὰ τοῦτο εὐάρεστον αὐτῷ . See Eph 5:10 al.),  through Jesus Christ (the reference is variously given: to εὐάρεστον , well-pleasing &c. through J. C.; so Grot., Hammond (“secundum Christi præcepta” &c.), al.: or to the verb, ποιῶν , as Thl., ὥστε , ὅταν ποιῶμεν ἡμεῖς τὸ καλόν , ὁ θεὸς ποιεῖ τοῦτο ἐν ἡμῖν διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , τουτέστι , μεσίτῃ κ . ἐνέργῳ τούτῳ χρώμενος : so Œc. The latter is by far the more probable, as the former would introduce a superfluity):  to whom (i. e. to God, the chief subject of the whole sentence, God, who is the God of peace, who brought up the Lord Jesus from the dead, who can perfect us in every good work, to accomplish His will, and works in us that which is well-pleasing to Him through Jesus Christ. The whole majesty of the sentence requires this reverting to its main agent, and speaks against the referring  ᾧ ἡ δόξα to our blessed Lord, who is only incidentally mentioned. See the very similar construction 1 Peter 4:11 , where however the reference is not by any means equally certain)  be (in 1 Pet. l. c. ἐστίν : and possibly also here: but perhaps ἔστω is the more probable supplement)  the glory for ever. Amen .