 4 .]  Exhortation to chastity .  Let your marriage (  γάμος , elsewhere in N. T. in the sense of a  wedding , here has its ordinary Greek meaning)  be (held) in honour in all things (see below)  and your marriage bed be undefiled: for fornicators and adulterers God shall judge . There are several debateable matters in this verse. First, is it a command or an assertion? The latter view is taken in Syr. “Honourable is marriage among all, and their bed is undefiled:” Beza, Grot., our E. V., al. And so Chrys. ( πῶς τίμιος ὁ γάμος ; ὅτι ἐν σωφροσύνῃ , φησί , διατηρεῖ τὸν πιστόν ), Œc., Thdrt. (apparently). But against this is the following clause,  καὶ ἡ κοίτη ἀμίαντος : for it is impossible to keep to the same rendering in this case: cf. Syr. above: the E. V. has evaded this difficulty by rendering, “and the bed undefiled,” leaving it, as its guide Beza does, uncertain whether “undefiled” is an epithet, as usually taken by English readers, or a predicate, as the Greek absolutely requires. For had the meaning been, “Marriage is honourable among all, and the (an) undefiled bed,” certainly the article could not have stood before κοίτη without standing also before ἀμίαντος : it must have been καὶ κοίτη ἀμίαντος or καὶ ἡ κοίτη ἡ ἀμίαντος . So that the indicative supplement, ἐστιν , must be dismissed, as inconsistent with the requirements of the latter clause; and, I might add, with the context: in which, besides that the whole is of a hortatory character, the very same collocation of words immediately follows in ἀφιλάργυρος ὁ τρόπος , where no one suggests ἐστιν as our supplement. The imperative view has accordingly been taken by very many Commentators: as e. g. by Thl. (see below), and the great mass of moderns. Delitzsch holds that no supplement is wanted, the clause being an exclamation carrying with it a hortatory force. But surely this is equivalent to supplying  ἔστω . The next question respects  ἐν πᾶσιν , whether it is to be taken as masculine, ‘among all men,’ or as neuter, ‘in all things.’ The doubt was felt as early as Thl., who thus expresses it: ἐν πᾶσιν οὖν , μὴ ἐν τοῖς προβεβηκόσι μέν , ἐν δὲ τοῖς νέοις οὔ , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν πᾶσιν . ἢ καὶ ἐν πᾶσι τρόποις καὶ ἐν πᾶσι καιροῖς , μὴ ἐν θλίψει μέν , ἐν ἀνέσει δὲ οὔ , μὴ ἐν τούτῳ μὲν μέρει τίμιος , ἐν ἄλλῳ δὲ οὔ , ἀλλ ʼ ὅλος ἐν ὅλῳ τίμιος ἔστω . The masculine is taken by Erasmus, Cajetan, Luther, Calvin, Beza, and most Commentators, especially Protestants, and in later times by Schulz, Böhme, De Wette, Wahl, Kuinoel, Tholuck. And it is variously interpreted: either, α . as by Luther, that all should keep marriage in honour, by not violating it; β . as by Böhme, Schulz, al., that the unmarried should not despise it, but it should be  held in honour by all; or, γ . as Calvin, al., that it is allowed to all conditions of men, not denied to any, as e. g. it is to the Romish priesthood. But it is altogether against the masculine sense, 1. that  ἐν πᾶσιν would not be the natural expression for it, but  παρὰ πᾶσιν : cf. Matthew 19:26 (bis), and [77] : Acts 26:8 ; Romans 2:13 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:6 ; James 1:27 ( ἀμίαντος παρὰ τῷ θεῷ ): and, 2. that our Writer uses ἐν πᾶσιν in this very chapter for ‘in all things,’ Hebrews 13:18 . See also reff., and Colossians 1:18 ; Philippians 4:12 . So that the neuter view is to be preferred: and so Œc., Corn. a-Lap., Calmet, the R.-Cath. expositors generally, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Delitzsch, al. For the phrase  κοίτη ἀμίαντος , Wetst. quotes from Plutarch de Fluviis, p. 18, ὑπὸ τῆς μητρυιᾶς φιλούμενος , καὶ μὴ θέλων μιαίνειν τὴν κοίτην τοῦ γεννήσαντος . The latter clause carries with it the anticipation of  condemnation in  κρινεῖ . Man may, or may not, punish them: one thing is sure: they shall come into judgment, and if so into condemnation, when God shall judge all.
	 [77] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .