 20 .]  But (  δέ often introduces a concluding sentence, breaking off, as we use  but : see again Hebrews 13:22 , and passim at the end of St. Paul’s Epistles)  the God of peace (so, often, at the end of St. Paul’s Epistles: see reff., and 2 Thessalonians 3:16 . In the presence of so many instances of the expression under different circumstances, it would perhaps be hardly safe to infer from it here any reference to danger of strife within the church addressed. Still the words are not a mere formula, and in all the above places, some reference is made, doubtless, to circumstances either of internal dissension or external tribulation. And certainly both the exhortations in Heb 13:17-19 point to a state in which there was danger of disobedience within and suspicion towards the Writer and those who were on his part. So that ‘peace’ was a natural wish for them, even without taking into account those troubles which harassed and threatened them from without, in regard of which it would be also a haven, where they would be),  who brought up from the dead ( περὶ ἀναστάσεως εἴρηται τοῦτο , Chrys. But perhaps not of the Resurrection only, but of the Ascension also. Delitzsch well remarks that  ἀνά is not only  rursum , but  sursum : and Bl. refers to Plato, Rep. vii. p. 521 C, πῶς τις ἀνάξει αὐτοὺς εἰς φῶς , ὥσπερ ἐξ ᾅδου λέγονται δή τινες εἰς θεοὺς ἀνελθεῖν ; “This is the only place where our Writer mentions the Resurrection. Every where else he lifts his eyes from the depth of our Lord’s humiliation, passing over all that is intermediate, to the highest point of His exaltation. The connexion here suggests to him once at least to make mention of that which lay between Golgotha and the throne of God, between the altar of the Cross and the heavenly sanctuary, the resurrection of Him who died as our sin-offering.” Delitzsch)  the great shepherd of the sheep (the passage before the Writer’s mind has been that in the prophetic chapter of Isaiah (ref.), where speaking of Moses, it is said, ποῦ ὁ ἀναβιβάσας ἐκ τῆς θαλάσσης τὸν ποιμένα τῶν προβάτων , where A and the Codex Marchalianus read ἐκ τῆς γῆς , as 46 Chrys. read here, [79] and the Complutensian having ἐκ γῆς . In Isa. the shepherd is Moses; and the comparison between Moses and Christ is familiar to our Writer, ch. Hebrews 3:2-6 . The addition of τὸν μέγαν as applied to Christ, is correspondent to His title ἱερεὺς μέγας , ch. Hebrews 10:21 . To deny this reference, with Lünemann, seems impossible, with the remarkable conjunction of τὸν ποιμένα τῶν προβάτων . The connexion here in which this title of our Lord is brought in, may be, that οἱ ἡγούμενοι having been just mentioned, and himself also, and his labours and theirs for the settlement of the Church in peace being before his mind, he is led to speak of Him who is the Chief Shepherd ( 1Pe 5:4 ), who was brought again from the dead by the God of Peace),  in the blood of the everlasting covenant (but in what sense? First διαθήκη αἰώνιος is as Thdrt., αἰώνιον δὲ τὴν καινὴν κέκληκε διαθήκην , ὡς ἑτέρας μετὰ ταύτην οὐκ ἐσομένης · ἵνα γὰρ μή τις ὑπολάβῃ , καὶ ταύτην δι ʼ ἄλλης διαθήκης παυθήσεσθαι , εἰκότως αὐτῆς τὸ ἀτελεύτητον ἔδειξε . Then, the expression itself can hardly but be a reminiscence of Zechariah 9:11 , καὶ σὺ ἐν αἵματι διαθήκης σου ἐξαπέστειλας δεσμίους σου ἐκ λάκκου οὐκ ἔχοντος ὕδωρ : and if so, the import of the preposition here will be at least indicated by its import there. And there it is, by virtue of, in the power of, the blood of thy covenant, i. e. of that blood which was the seal of the covenant entered into with thee. So also we must understand it here. Did the sentence apply only to the exaltation of Christ, the  ἐν might be taken as by Bleek after Calv., ‘  with the blood,’ so that Christ took the blood with Him. So Œc. and Thl., ἤγειρεν αὐτὸν ἐκ νεκρῶν σὺν αἵματι διαθήκης αἰωνίου , τουτέστι σὺν τῇ ἐγέρσει αὐτοῦ καὶ τὸ αἷμα αὐτοῦ κεχάρισται ἡμῖν εἰς διαθήκην αἰώνιον : and Calvin, “Videtur mihi apostolus hoc velle, Christum ita resurrexisse a mortuis, ut mors tamen ejus non sit abolita, sed æternum vigorem retineat: ac si dixisset, Deus Filium suum excitavit, sed ita ut sanguis, quem semel in morte fudit, ad sanctionem fœderis æterni post resurrectionem vigeat, fructumque suum proferat perinde ac si semper flueret.” But here it is joined to the exaltation only by means of the resurrection. And thus, as Del. maintains, the instrumental, conditioning-element force of ἐν seems to predominate: through, or in virtue of, the blood ( Act 20:28 ). It is surely hardly allowable to join the words ἐν αἵματι διαθήκης αἰωνίου with τὸν ποιμένα τὸν μέγαν . Yet this is done by Beza, Estius, Grot., Limborch, Schulz, Böhme, Kuinoel, Lünem., Ebr., al., some of them joining it with μέγαν . It seems to me that τόν would in this case be repeated after μέγαν . The  idea however is no less true, and is indeed involved in the connexion with ἀναγαγών , and thus with the whole sentence. The Lord Jesus did become, in His mediatorial work, the great Shepherd of the sheep, by virtue of that covenant which was brought in by His blood (Acts, ubi sup.): and by virtue of that blood also He was raised up as the great Shepherd, out of the dead, and to God’s right hand. Cf. on the whole, reff.; and Isaiah 55:3 ; Isaiah 61:8 ; Joh 10:11-18 ),  even our Lord Jesus (here the personal name,  Jesus , is joined with the assertion of His lordship over us: below, where the inworking of the Spirit through Him is spoken of, it is διὰ Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , His office as Christ at God’s right hand having made Him the channel of the Spirit to us: the anointing on Him, the Head, flowing down to the skirts of the raiment. Cf. Acts 2:36 , ἀσφαλῶς οὖν γινωσκέτω πᾶς οἶκος Ἰσραήλ , ὅτι καὶ κύριον αὐτὸν καὶ χριστὸν ὁ θεὸς ἐποίησεν , τοῦτον τὸν Ἰησοῦν ὃν ὑμεῖς ἐσταυρώσατε ),
	 [79] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .