 11 .]  For (reason why this exclusion has place: because our great Sacrifice is not one of those in which the servants of the tabernacle had any share, but answers to one which was wholly taken out and burnt: see below)  of the animals of which the blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest, of these the bodies are consumed by fire outside the camp (there was a distinction in the sacrifices as to the subsequent participation of certain parts of them by the priests. Those of which they  did partake (I take these particulars mainly from Delitzsch) were: 1. the sin-offering of the rulers (a male kid), and the sin-offering of the common people (a female kid or lamb), Leviticus 4:22 ff., Leviticus 4:27 ff. (compare the rules ib. Leviticus 6:0 about eating and not eating the sacrifices): 2. the dove of the poor man, Leviticus 5:9 . Leviticus 5:3 . the trespass-offering, Leviticus 7:7 . Leviticus 7:4 . the skin of the whole burnt-offering, ib. Leviticus 7:8 . Leviticus 7:5 . the wave-breast and heave-shoulder of the peace-offerings. 6. the wave-offerings on the feast of weeks, entire. But those of which they  did not partake were, 1. the sin-offering of the high priest for himself, Leviticus 4:5-7 , esp. Leviticus 4:12 . Leviticus 4:2 . the sin-offerings for sins of ignorance of the congregation, Leviticus 4:16-21 , cf. Numbers 15:24 . Numbers 15:3 . the sin-offering for high priest and people combined, on the great day of atonement, the blood of which was brought not only into the holy but into the holiest place, Leviticus 16:27 . Besides which we have a general rule, to which doubtless the Writer here alludes, Leviticus 6:30 , “No sin-offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to reconcile withal in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire.” As regards particular expressions:  τὰ ἅγια here, as in ch. Hebrews 9:8 ; Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 9:24-25 ; Hebrews 10:19 , probably means not the holy place commonly so called, but the holy of holies, into which the blood of the sin-offering was brought on the day of atonement, and which only typified heaven, whither Christ as High Priest is entered with His Blood.  ἔξω τῆς παρεμβολῆς refers to the time when Israel was encamped in the wilderness: the enclosure of the camp was afterwards replaced by the walls of Jerusalem, so that ἔξω τῆς πύλης below answers to it).