 7 .]  Remember (may be taken in two ways, as Thl., βοηθεῖν αὐτοῖς ἐν ταῖς σωματικαῖς χρείαις , … ἢ καὶ πρὸς μίμησιν αὐτῶν ἐπαλείφει τούτους . The former meaning would agree with μιμνήσκεσθε in Hebrews 13:3 ; but it is plain from what follows here (e. g. ἐλάλησαν and ἔκβασιν ) that the course of these ἡγούμενοι is past, and it is remembering with a view to imitation that is enjoined)  your leaders (  ἡγούμενοι , Hebrews 13:17 ; Hebrews 13:24 , are their leaders in the faith: cf. also προηγούμενοι , in Clem.-rom. ad Cor. i. c. 21, p. 256. It is a word of St. Luke’s, cf. reff., answering to the προϊστάμενοι of St. Paul, 1 Thessalonians 5:12 . It is found in later Greek, in Polyb., Herodian, Diod. Sic. al., in this same sense. See also Sir 9:17 ; Sir 10:2 al.),  the which (of that kind, who)  spoke to you the word of God (the aor, shews that this speaking was over, and numbers these leaders among those in ch. Hebrews 2:3 ; as those who heard the Lord, ὑφ ʼ ὧν εἰς ἡμᾶς ἐβεβαιώθη ( ἡ σωτηρία ). The phrase λαλεῖν τὸν λόγον τοῦ θεοῦ , is the usual one with St. Luke, cf. reff.),  of whom surveying (  ἀνα  -  θεωρεῖν , like ἀνα - ζητεῖν , to  contemplate , or search from one end to the other. Bl. quotes from Winer de Verborum cum Prepp. compos. in N. T. Usu, p. iii, “aliquam rerum seriem ita oculis perlustrare, ut ab imo ad summum, ab extremo ad principium pergas.” Similarly Chrys., συνεχῶς στρέφοντες παρ ʼ ἑαυτοῖς . The word occurs elsewhere in St. Luke only (ref.))  the termination (by death: not as Œc., but without deciding, πῶς διεξέρχονται καλῶς τὴν ἐν τῷ βίῳ ἀναστροφήν : nor, as Braun and Cramer, the result  for others of their Christian walk, viz. their conversion: nor as Storr, al., the result  for themselves , viz. their heavenly reward, which their followers could not in any sense ἀναθεωρεῖν . We have ἔξοδος in the sense of death Luk 9:31 ; 2 Peter 1:15 ; and ἄφιξις Acts 20:29 . It is perhaps to be inferred that these died by martyrdom, as Stephen, James the brother of John, and possibly (but see the matter discussed in Prolegg. to James, and in Delitzsch’s note here) James the brother of the Lord: and possibly too, St. Peter (see Prolegg. to 1 Pet.). So the ancient Commentators: so Thdor.-mops., Θεόδωρός φησιν ἡγουμένους τοὺς παρ ʼ αὐτοῖς καταγγείλαντας τὸν λόγον τῆς εὐσεβείας καὶ τελειωθέντας ὑπὸ Ἰουδαίων αὐτόθι · πολλοὶ δὲ ἦσαν , οὔτε Στέφανος μόνον καὶ Ἰάκωβος ὁ μαχαίρᾳ ἀναιρεθείς , ἀλλὰ καὶ ὁ τοῦ κυρίου ἀδελφὸς Ἰάκωβος , ἕτεροι δὲ πλεῖστοι σιωπῇ παραδεδομένοι . Similarly Thdrt., al.)  of their conversation (i. e. their Christian ἀναστρέφεσθαι , behaviour, walk, course. No English word completely gives it. For usage, see reff.),  imitate the faith .