 13 .]  So then (  τοίνυν commonly in Greek stands second at least in a sentence. But in later writers as in the LXX (reff.), it is not uncommonly put first, as here; and sometimes even in classical Greek: cf. Lobeck on Phrynichus, p. 342 f., who gives an example from Aristoph. Acharn. 904, ἐγῷδα · τοίνυν συκοφάντην ἔξαγε : and several from later authors)  let us go forth to Him outside the camp ( ἀντὶ τοῦ ἔξω τῆς κατὰ νόμον γενώμεθα πολιτείας , Thdrt. This is certainly intended, and not the meaning given by Chrys. ( τὸν σταυρὸν αὐτοῦ αἰρῶμεν καὶ ἔξω κόσμου μένωμεν , in his  second exposition in Hom. xxxiii. His  first exposition is very similar, not as quoted by Bleek, that we should follow the Lord in his sufferings: this latter is the explanation of τὸν ὀνειδισμὸν αὐτοῦ φέροντες : see below. I may mention that the fact of Chrys. having given two expositions of the passage, as of some others, has much bewildered the Commentators. Delitzsch, e. g., charges Bleek with error in saying that Chrys. omits περὶ ἁμαρτίας in Hebrews 13:11 . He does omit it the second time, but not the first), Limborch, Heinrichs, Kuinoel, al., nor that of Schlichting (“exilia, opprobria, &c., cum illo subeamus”), Grot., Michaelis, Storr, al. Both these may be involved in that which is intended; the latter particular is presently mentioned: but they are not identical with it. Possibly there may be a reference to Exodus 33:7 , ἐγένετο , πᾶς ὁ ζητῶν κύριον ἐξεπορεύετο εἰς τὴν σκηνὴν τὴν ἔξω τῆς παρεμβολῆς . Bleek objects that if so, we should not expect ἡ σκηνή to have been so shortly before mentioned as representing the Jewish sanctuary, in distinction from the Christian. But this seems hardly sufficient reason for denying the reference. The occasion in Exodus 33:0 was a remarkable one. The people were just quitting Sinai, the home of the law; and the πᾶς ὁ ζητῶν τὸν κύριον seems to bear more than ordinary solemnity),  bearing His reproach (see on ch. Hebrews 11:26 . τουτέστι , τὰ αὐτὰ πάσχοντες . κοινωνοῦντες αὐτῷ ἐν τοῖς παθήμασιν , Chrys., Œc.).