Analysis Of The ChapterIn this chapter Hebrews 5:1-14 the subject of the priestly office of Christ is continued and further illustrated. It had been introduced Hebrews 2:16, Hebrews 2:18; Hebrews 3:1; Heb 4:14-17. The Jews regarded the office of high priest as an essential feature in the true religion; and it became, therefore, of the highest importance to show that in the Christian system there was a High Priest every way equal to that of the Jews. In his rank; in his character; and in the sacrifice which he offered, he was more than equal to the Jewish high priest, and they who had forsaken Judaism and embraced Christianity had lost nothing in this respect by the change, and had gained much. It became necessary, therefore, in making out this point, to institute a comparison between the Jewish high priest and the Great Author of the Christian religion, and this comparison is pursued in this and the following chapters. The comparison in this chapter turns mainly on the “qualifications” for the office, and the question whether the Lord Jesus had those qualifications. The chapter embraces the following points: I. The qualifications of a Jewish high priest; Hebrews 5:1-4. They are these. (1)He must have been ordained or appointed by God for the purpose of offering gifts and sacrifices for sins; Hebrews 5:1. (2)He must be tender and compassionate in his feelings, so that he can “sympathize” with those for whom he ministers; Hebrews 5:2. (3)He must have an offering to bring to God, and be able to present a sacrifice alike for himself and for the people; Hebrews 5:3. (4)He could not take this honor on himself, but must have evidence that he was called of God, as was Aaron; Hebrews 5:4. II. An inquiry whether these qualifications were found in the Lord Jesus, the great High priest of the Christian dispensation; Hebrews 5:5-10. In considering this, the apostle specifies the following qualifications in him, corresponding to those which he had said were required by the Jewish high priest: (2)He was kind, tender, and compassionate, and showed that he was able to sympathize with those for whom he had undertaken the office. When on the earth he had evinced all the tenderness which could be desired in one who had come to pity and save mankind. He had a tender, sensitive, human nature. He felt deeply as a man, under the pressure of the great sufferings which he endured, and thus showed that he was abundantly qualified to sympathize with his people; Hebrews 5:7-8. III. In Hebrews 5:10 the apostle had introduced, incidentally, a topic of great difficulty; and he adds Hebrews 5:11-14, that he had much to say on that subject, but that those whom he addressed were not qualified then to understand it. They ought to have been so far advanced in knowledge as to have been able to embrace the more abstruse and difficult points connected with the doctrines of Christianity. But they needed, he says, instruction even yet in the more simple elements of religion, and he feared that what he had to say of Melchizedek would be far above their comprehension. This point, therefore, he drops for the present, and in Hebrews 6:0 states again, and at greater length, the danger of apostasy, and the importance of perseverance in endeavoring to comprehend the sublime mysteries of the Christian religion; and then Hebrews 7:0 he resumes the subject of the comparison between Christ and Melchizedek.  