1. I stood—So B, Aleph,
	and Coptic read. But A, C, Vulgate, and Syriac,
	"He stood." Standing on the sand of the sea,
	HE gave his power to the beast that rose out of the sea. 
	upon the sand of the
	sea—where the four winds were to be seen striving
	upon the great sea (Daniel 7:2).
	beast—Greek,
	"wild beast." Man becomes "brutish" when he
	severs himself from God, the archetype and true ideal, in whose image
	he was first made, which ideal is realized by the man Christ Jesus.
	Hence, the world powers seeking their own glory, and not God's, are
	represented as beasts; and Nebuchadnezzar, when in
	self-deification he forgot that "the Most High ruleth in the
	kingdom of men," was driven among the beasts. In Daniel 7:2- : there are four beasts: here the one beast
	expresses the sum-total of the God-opposed world power viewed in its
	universal development, not restricted to one manifestation alone, as
	Rome. This first beast expresses the world power attacking the Church
	more from without; the second, which is a revival of, and minister
	to, the first, is the world power as the false prophet
	corrupting and destroying the Church from within. 
	out of the sea— (Daniel 7:2- :; compare Note, see on Daniel 7:2- :); out of the troubled waves of peoples, multitudes,
	nations, and tongues. The earth (Daniel 7:2- :), on the other hand, means the consolidated, ordered world
	of nations, with its culture and learning. 
	seven heads and ten horns—A,
	B, and C transpose, "ten horns and seven heads." The ten
	horns are now put first (contrast the order, Daniel 7:2- :) because they are crowned. They shall not be so till the
	last stage of the fourth kingdom (the Roman), which shall continue
	until the fifth kingdom, Christ's, shall supplant it and destroy it
	utterly; this last stage is marked by the ten toes of the two
	feet of the image in Daniel 2:33;
	Daniel 2:41; Daniel 2:42.
	The seven implies the world power setting up itself as God,
	and caricaturing the seven Spirits of God; yet its true
	character as God-opposed is detected by the number ten
	accompanying the seven. Dragon and beast both wear crowns, but the
	former on the heads, the latter on the horns (Revelation 12:3;
	Revelation 13:1). Therefore, both heads
	and horns refer to kingdoms; compare Revelation 17:7;
	Revelation 17:10; Revelation 17:12,
	"kings" representing the kingdoms whose heads they are. The
	seven kings, as peculiarly powerful—the great powers of the
	world—are distinguished from the ten, represented by the
	horns (simply called "kings," Revelation 17:12- :). In Daniel, the ten mean the last phase of the
	world power, the fourth kingdom divided into ten parts. They
	are connected with the seventh head (Revelation 17:12- :), and are as yet future [AUBERLEN].
	The mistake of those who interpret the beast to be Rome exclusively,
	and the ten horns to mean kingdoms which have taken the place
	of Rome in Europe already, is, the fourth kingdom in the image has
	TWO legs, representing the
	eastern as well as the western empire; the ten toes are not upon the
	one foot (the west), as these interpretations require, but on the two
	(east and west) together, so that any theory which makes the ten
	kingdoms belong to the west alone must err. If the ten kingdoms meant
	were those which sprung up on the overthrow of Rome, the ten would be
	accurately known, whereas twenty-eight different lists are given by
	so many interpreters, making in all sixty-five kingdoms! [TYSO
	in DE BURGH].
	The seven heads are the seven world monarchies, Egypt, Assyria,
	Babylon, Persia, Greece, Rome, the Germanic empire, under the last of
	which we live [AUBERLEN],
	and which devolved for a time on Napoleon, after Francis, emperor of
	Germany and king of Rome, had resigned the title in 1806. FABER
	explains the healing of the deadly wound to be the revival of
	the Napoleonic dynasty after its overthrow at Waterloo. That secular
	dynasty, in alliance with the ecclesiastical power, the Papacy (Revelation 17:12- :, c.), being "the eighth head," and yet "of
	the seven" (Revelation 17:11),
	will temporarily triumph over the saints, until destroyed in
	Armageddon (Revelation 19:17-21).
	A Napoleon, in this view, will be the Antichrist, restoring the Jews
	to Palestine, and accepted as their Messiah at first, and afterwards
	fearfully oppressing them. Antichrist, the summing up and
	concentration of all the world evil that preceded, is the eighth, but
	yet one of the seven (Revelation 17:11).
	crowns—Greek,
	"diadems." 
	name of blasphemy—So C,
	Coptic, and ANDREAS.
	A, B, and Vulgate read, "names of blasphemy,"
	namely, a name on each of the heads blasphemously arrogating
	attributes belonging to God alone (compare Note, see on Revelation 17:11- :). A characteristic of the little horn in Daniel 7:8;
	Daniel 7:20; Daniel 7:21;
	2 Thessalonians 2:4.