5. Whose are the fathers—here,
	probably, the three great fathers of the covenant—Abraham, Isaac,
	and Jacob—by whom God condescended to name Himself (Exodus 8:6;
	Exodus 8:13; Luke 20:37).
	and—most exalted
	privilege of all, and as such, reserved to the last. 
	of whom as concerning the
	flesh—(See on Romans 1:3). 
	Christ came—or, "is
	Christ" 
	who is over all, God—rather,
	"God over all." 
	blessed for ever. Amen—To
	get rid of the bright testimony here borne to the supreme divinity of
	Christ, various expedients have been adopted: (1) To place a period,
	either after the words "concerning the flesh Christ came,"
	rendering the next clause as a doxology to the Father—"God who
	is over all be blessed for ever"; or after the word "all"—thus,
	"Christ came, who is over all: God be blessed.", c.
	[ERASMUS, LOCKE,
	FRITZSCHE, MEYER,
	JOWETT, &c.]. But it
	is fatal to this view, as even Socinus admits, that in other
	Scripture doxologies the word "Blessed" precedes the
	name of God on whom the blessing is invoked (thus: "Blessed be
	God," Psalms 68:35 "Blessed
	be the Lord God, the God of Israel," Psalms 68:35- :). Besides, any such doxology here would be "unmeaning
	and frigid in the extreme"; the sad subject on which he was
	entering suggesting anything but a doxology, even in connection with
	Christ's Incarnation [ALFORD].
	(2) To transpose the words rendered "who is"; in which case
	the rendering would be, "whose (that is, the fathers') is Christ
	according to the flesh" [CRELLIUS,
	WHISTON, TAYLOR,
	WHITBY]. But this is a
	desperate expedient, in the face of all manuscript authority; as is
	also the conjecture of GROTIUS
	and others, that the word "God" should be omitted from the
	text. It remains then, that we have here no doxology at all, but a
	naked statement of fact, that while Christ is "of" the
	Israelitish nation "as concerning the flesh," He is,
	in another respect, "God over all, blessed for ever."
	(In 2 Corinthians 11:31 the very Greek
	phrase which is here rendered "who is," is used in the same
	sense; and compare Romans 1:25,
	Greek). In this view of the passage, as a testimony to the
	supreme divinity of Christ, besides all the orthodox fathers, some of
	the ablest modern critics concur [BENGEL,
	THOLUCK, STUART,
	OLSHAUSEN, PHILIPPI,
	ALFORD, &c.]