 5. ]  For even supposing that ( εἴπερ makes an hypothesis, so that “in incerto relinquitur, jure an injuria sumatur,” Herm. ad Viger., p. 834. See also Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 343, who gives many examples.
	 καὶ γὰρ εἰ , as Eur. Med. 450, καὶ γὰρ εἰ σύ με στυγεῖς , οὐκ ἂν δυναίμην σοὶ κακῶς φρονεῖν ποτε ; see Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 140 f.)  beings named gods (not  those who are named gods ,  οἱ λεγ . θ ., i. esset,  all who are so named) EXIST (  the chief emphasis is on  εἰσίν ,  on which the hypothesis turns ),  whether in heaven, whether upon earth, as (we know that) there are (viz. as being spoken of, Deuteronomy 10:17 , ὁ γὰρ κύριος ὁ θεὸς ὑμῶν , οὗτος θεὸς  τῶν θεῶν καὶ κύριος  τῶν κυρίων , see also Psa 135:2-3 )  gods many, and lords many (the  ὥσπερ brings in an acknowledged fact, on which the possibility of the hypothesis rests ‘  Even if some of the many gods and many lords whom we know to exist, be actually identical with the heathen idols …’ The Apostle does not  concede this , but only  puts it). This exegesis, which is Meyer’s, is denied by De Wette, who takes εἴπερ as concessive, ‘  even though ,’ and understands εἰσίν both times as only ‘  are ,’  in the meaning of the heathen , imagining it impossible that Paul should have seriously said in an objective sense, ‘  there are gods many .’ But in the sense in which he uses θεοί (see above) there is no unlikelihood that he should assert this.
	Chrys. gives the following explanation: καὶ γὰρ εἴπερ εἰσὶ λεγόμενοι θεοί , ὥσπερ οὖν καὶ εἰσίν , οὐχ ἁπλῶς εἰσίν , ἀλλά , λεγόμενοι , οὐκ ἐν πράγματι , ἀλλ ʼ ἐν ῥήματι τοῦτο ἔχοντες · εἴτε ἐν οὐρανῷ , εἴτε ἐπὶ γῆς · ἐν οὐρανῷ τὸν ἥλιον λέγων κ . τὴν σελήνην κ . τὸν λοιπὸν τῶν ἄστρων χορόν · καὶ γὰρ καὶ ταῦτα προσεκύνησαν Ἕλληνες · ἐπὶ γῆς δὲ δαίμονας , καὶ τοὺς ἐξ ἀνθρώπων θεοποιηθέντας ἅπαντας . Hom. xx. p. 172. And similarly Theodoret, Theophyl., Œcum., Calv., Beza, Calov., Estius, Schrader, al. See the various minor differences of interpretation, in Pool’s Synopsis and De Wette: and a beautiful note in Stanley.
	There is a sentence in Herodotus ( 1Co 9:27 ) singularly resembling this in its structure: ἡμῖν δέ , εἰ μηδὲν ἄλλο ἐστὶ ἀποδεδεγμένον , ὥσπερ ἐστὶ πολλά τε καὶ εὖ ἔχοντα , … ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀπὸ τοῦ ἐν Μαραθῶνι ἔργου ἄξιοί ἐσμεν , κ . τ . λ . Cf. also Hom. Il. α . 81 f.; φ . 576 f.