 1 .]  δέ ,  transitional , as in ch. 1 Corinthians 7:1 , al. fr.
	As regards the construction, we may observe, that περὶ δ . τῶν εἰδ ., is  again taken up 1 Corinthians 8:4 , περὶ τῆς βρώς . οὖν τῷν εἰδ ., after a parenthesis. We may also observe that in the latter case οἴδαμεν ὅτι is  restated , bearing therefore, it is reasonable to suppose, the  same meaning as before, viz.  we know, that . This to my mind is decisive against beginning the parenthesis with ὅτι , and rendering ὅτι ‘  for ,’ as Luther, Bengel, Valckn., al.: ‘  we know (  for we all have knowledge ),’  &c. Are we then to begin it with πάντες , leaving περὶ … οἴδαμεν ὅτι broken off, corresponding to the words resumed in 1Co 8:4 ? We should thus leave within the parenthesis a very broken and harsh sentence: πάντες γνῶσιν ἔχομεν (  what γνῶσις ? if γν . about the εἰδωλοθ ., it should be joined with the preceding; if γν .  in general , it should be τὴν γνῶσιν , see ch. 1 Corinthians 13:2 , which would be absurd; if  some γν . on  some subjects , as σὺ πίστιν ἔχεις , James 2:18 , it would here be irrelevant), ἡ γν . φυσιοῖ , ἡ δὲ ἀγ . κ . τ . λ . The first  logical break in the sense is where  the concrete  γνῶσις ,  that  περὶ τῶν εἰδ  . ,  is forsaken, and the abstract  ἡ γνῶσις  treated of . Here therefore, with Chrys., &c., Beza, Grot., Calv., Est., al., De Wette, and Meyer, I begin the parenthesis,  … we are aware that we all (see below)  have knowledge; knowledge , &c. not however  placing it in brackets , for it is already provided for  in the construction by the resumption of περὶ … οὖν below; and is not a grammatical but only a logical parenthesis.
	The  εἰδωλόθυτα were those portions of the animals offered in sacrifice which were not laid on the altar, and which belonged partly to the priests, partly to those who had offered them. These remnants were sometimes eaten at feasts holden in the temples (see 1Co 8:10 ), or in private houses (ch. 1 Corinthians 10:27 , f.), sometimes sold in the markets, by the priests, or by the poor, or by the niggardly. Theophrastus, Charact. xviii., describes it as characteristic of the ἀνελεύθερος , ἐκδιδοὺς αὑτοῦ θυγατέρα , τοῦ μὲν ἱερείου , πλὴν τῶν ἱερῶν , τὰ κρέα ἀποδίδοσθαι . They were sometimes also reserved for future use: Theophr. mentions it as belonging to the ἀναίσχυντος , θύσας τοῖς θεοῖς αὐτὸς μὲν δειπνεῖν παρ ʼ ἑτέρῳ , τὰ δὲ κρέα ἀποτιθέναι ἁλσὶ πάσας . Christians were thus in continual danger of meeting with such remnants. Partaking of them was an abomination among the Jews: see Numbers 25:2 ; Psalms 106:28 ; Revelation 2:14 ; Tob 1:10-12 ; and was forbidden by the Apostles and elders assembled at Jerusalem, Acts 15:29 ; Acts 21:25 . That Paul in the whole of this passage makes no allusion to that decree, but deals with the question on its own merits, probably is to be traced to his wish to establish his position as an independent Apostle, endowed with God’s Holy Spirit sufficiently himself to regulate such matters. But it also shews,  how little such decisions were at that time regarded as lastingly binding on the whole church : and how fully competent it was, even during the lifetime of the Apostles, to Christians to open and question, on its own merits, a matter which  they had, for a special purpose, once already decided.
	There should be a comma at εἰδωλοθύτων , as the resumed sentence ( 1Co 8:4 ) shews.
	 πάντες γνῶσιν ἔχομεν ]  Who are  πάντες ? Meyer says,  Paul himself and the enlightened among the Corinthians: Estius, al.,  these latter alone ; and some think it said  ironically , some  concessively , of them: Grot., “pars maxima nostrum, ut Romans 3:12 .” But it is manifest from 1 Corinthians 8:4-6 , which is said in the widest possible reference to the faith of  all Christians , that  all Christians must be intended here also: and so Chrys., Theophyl., Œcum., Calov., al., and De Wette. But then, 1 Corinthians 8:7 , he says,  οὐκ ἐν πᾶσιν ἡ γνῶσις [obviously pointing at the weak Christian brother]: and how are the two to be reconciled? By taking, I believe, the common-sense view of two such statements, which would be, in ordinary preaching or writing, that the first was said of what is  professed and  confessed, the second of what is  actually and practically apprehended by each man . Thus we may say of our people, in the former sense, ‘  all are Christians; all believe in Christ :’ but in the latter, ‘all are  not Christians; all do  not believe.’
	 γνῶσιν , scil. περὶ αὐτῶν .
	From ἡ γν . to end of 1 Corinthians 8:3 (see above) is a  logical parenthesis.
	 ἡ γνῶσις  , knowledge , abstract, scil. when  alone , or improperly predominant: it is the attribute of ἡ γνῶσις , ‘  barely ’ [to puff up].
	 ἡ ἀγάπη ] viz. ‘  towards the brethren ,’ see Romans 14:15 , and ch. 1 Corinthians 10:23 .
	 οἰκοδ  . ]  helps to build up (God’s spiritual temple), ch. 1 Corinthians 3:9 .