4. And Jesus—"straitly
	charged him, and forthwith sent him away" ( :-), and 
	saith unto him, See thou tell
	no man—A hard condition this would seem to a grateful heart,
	whose natural language, in such a case, is "Come, hear, all ye
	that fear God, and I will declare what He hath done for my soul"
	(Psalms 66:16). We shall presently
	see the reason for it. 
	but go thy way, show thyself
	to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded— (Psalms 66:16- :). 
	for a testimony unto them—a
	palpable witness that the Great Healer had indeed come, and that "God
	had visited His people." What the sequel was, our Evangelist
	Matthew does not say; but Mark thus gives it (Psalms 66:16- :): "But he went out, and began to publish it much, and
	to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly
	enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came
	to Him from every quarter." Thus—by an over-zealous, though
	most natural and not very culpable, infringement of the injunction to
	keep the matter quiet—was our Lord, to some extent, thwarted in His
	movements. As His whole course was sublimely noiseless (Psalms 66:16- :), so we find Him repeatedly taking steps to prevent matters
	prematurely coming to a crisis with Him. (But see on Psalms 66:16- :). "And He withdrew Himself," adds Luke (Psalms 66:16- :), "into the wilderness, and prayed"; retreating
	from the popular excitement into the secret place of the Most High,
	and thus coming forth as dew upon the mown grass, and as showers that
	water the earth (Psalms 72:6). And
	this is the secret both of strength and of sweetness in the servants
	and followers of Christ in every age. 
	Psalms 72:6- :. HEALING OF THE
	CENTURION'S SERVANT.
	( = Luke 7:1-10). 
	This incident belongs to a later
	stage. For the exposition, see on Luke 7:1-42.7.10- :. 
	Luke 7:1-42.7.10- :. HEALING OF
	PETER'S MOTHER-IN-LAW
	AND MANY OTHERS.
	( = Mark 1:29-34; Luke 4:38-41).
	For the exposition, see on Luke 4:38-42.4.41- :. 
	Luke 4:38-42.4.41- :. INCIDENTS
	ILLUSTRATIVE OF
	DISCIPLESHIP. ( = Luke 4:38-42.4.41- :). 
	The incidents here are two: in the
	corresponding passage of Luke they are three. Here they are
	introduced before the mission of the Twelve: in Luke, when our Lord
	was making preparation for His final journey to Jerusalem. But to
	conclude from this, as some good critics do (as BENGEL,
	ELLICOTT, c.) that one of
	these incidents at least occurred twice—which led to the mention of
	the others at the two different times—is too artificial. Taking
	them, then, as one set of occurrences, the question arises. Are they
	recorded by Matthew or by Luke in their proper place? NEANDER,
	SCHLEIERMACHER, and
	OLSHAUSEN adhere to Luke's
	order while MEYER, DE
	WETTE, and LANGE
	prefer that of Matthew. Probably the first incident is here in its
	right place. But as the command, in the second incident, to preach
	the kingdom of God, would scarcely have been given at so early a
	period, it is likely that it and the third incident have their true
	place in Luke. Taking these three incidents up here then we have, 
	I. The Rash or Precipitate
	Disciple (Matthew 8:19; Matthew 8:20).