15. he had power—Greek,
	"it was given to him." 
	to give life—Greek,
	"breath," or "spirit." 
	image—Nebuchadnezzar
	set up in Dura a golden image to be worshipped, probably of
	himself; for his dream had been interpreted, "Thou art this head
	of gold"; the three Hebrews who refused to worship the image
	were east into a burning furnace. All this typifies the last
	apostasy. PLINY, in his
	letter to Trajan, states that he consigned to punishment those
	Christians who would not worship the emperor's image with incense and
	wine. So JULIAN, the
	apostate, set up his own image with the idols of the heathen gods in
	the Forum, that the Christians in doing reverence to it, might seem
	to worship the idols. So Charlemagne's image was set up for homage;
	and the Pope adored the new emperor [DUPIN,
	vol. 6, p. 126]. Napoleon, the successor of Charlemagne, designed
	after he had first lowered the Pope by removing him to Fontainebleau,
	then to "make an idol of him" [Memorial de Sainte
	Helene]; keeping the Pope near him, he would, through the Pope's
	influence, have directed the religious, as well as the political
	world. The revived Napoleonic dynasty may, in some one
	representative, realize the project, becoming the beast supported by
	the false prophet (perhaps some openly infidel supplanter of the
	papacy, under a spiritual guise, after the harlot, or apostate
	Church, who is distinct from the second beast, has been stripped and
	judged by the beast, Revelation 17:16);
	he then might have an image set up in his honor as a test of secular
	and spiritual allegiance. 
	speak—"False
	doctrine will give a spiritual, philosophical appearance to the
	foolish apotheosis of the creaturely personified by Antichrist"
	[AUBERLEN]. JEROME,
	on Daniel 7, says, Antichrist shall be "one of the human race in
	whom the whole of Satan shall dwell bodily." Rome's speaking
	images and winking pictures of the Virgin Mary and the saints are an
	earnest of the future demoniacal miracles of the false prophet in
	making the beast's or Antichrist's image to speak.