11. another beast—"the
	false prophet." 
	out of the earth—out of
	society civilized, consolidated, and ordered, but still, with all its
	culture, of earth earthy: as distinguished from "the sea,"
	the troubled agitations of various peoples out of which the world
	power and its several kingdoms have emerged. "The sacerdotal
	persecuting power, pagan and Christian; the pagan priesthood
	making an image of the emperors which they compelled Christians to
	worship, and working wonders by magic and omens; the Romish
	priesthood, the inheritors of pagan rites, images, and superstitions,
	lamb-like in Christian professions, dragon-like in word and act"
	[ALFORD, and so the
	Spanish Jesuit, LACUNZA,
	writing under the name BEN
	EZRA]. As the first beast
	was like the Lamb in being, as it were, wounded to death, so
	the second is like the Lamb in having two lamb-like horns (its
	essential difference from the Lamb is marked by its having TWO,
	but the Lamb SEVEN horns,
	Revelation 5:6). The former paganism of
	the world power, seeming to be wounded to death by Christianity,
	revives. In its second beast-form it is Christianized heathendom
	ministering to the former, and having earthly culture and learning to
	recommend it. The second beast's, or false prophet's rise, coincides
	in time with the healing of the beast's deadly wound and its revival
	(Revelation 13:12-14). Its
	manifold character is marked by the Lord (Matthew 24:11;
	Matthew 24:24), "Many
	false prophets shall rise," where He is speaking of the last
	days. As the former beast corresponds to the first four beasts of
	Daniel, so the second beast, or the false prophet, to the little horn
	starting up among the ten horns of the fourth beast. This
	Antichristian horn has not only the mouth of blasphemy (Matthew 24:24- :), but also "the eyes of man" (Matthew 24:24- :): the former is also in the first beast (Revelation 13:1;
	Revelation 13:5), but the latter not so.
	"The eyes of man" symbolize cunning and intellectual
	culture, the very characteristic of "the false prophet"
	(Revelation 13:13-15; Revelation 16:14).
	The first beast is physical and political; the second a spiritual
	power, the power of knowledge, ideas (the favorite term in the French
	school of politics), and scientific cultivation. Both alike are
	beasts, from below, not from above; faithful allies, worldly
	Antichristian wisdom standing in the service of the worldly
	Antichristian power: the dragon is both lion and serpent: might and
	cunning are his armory. The dragon gives his external power to the
	first beast (Revelation 13:2), his
	spirit to the second, so that it speaks as a dragon (Revelation 13:2- :). The second, arising out of the earth, is in
	Revelation 11:7; Revelation 17:8,
	said to ascend out of the bottomless pit: its very culture and
	world wisdom only intensify its infernal character, the pretense to
	superior knowledge and rationalistic philosophy (as in the primeval
	temptation, Genesis 3:5; Genesis 3:7,
	"their EYES [as here]
	were opened") veiling the deification of nature, self, and man.
	Hence spring Idealism, Materialism, Deism, Pantheism, Atheism.
	Antichrist shall be the culmination. The Papacy's claim to the double
	power, secular and spiritual, is a sample and type of the twofold
	beast, that out of the sea, and that out of the earth,
	or bottomless pit. Antichrist will be the climax, and final
	form. PRIMASIUS OF
	ADRUMENTUM, in the sixth
	century, says, "He feigns to be a lamb that he may assail the
	Lamb—the body of Christ."