18. wisdom—the armory against
	the second beast, as patience and faith against the first.
	Spiritual wisdom is needed to solve the mystery of
	iniquity, so as not to be beguiled by it. 
	count . . . for—The
	"for" implies the possibility of our calculating or
	counting the beast's number. 
	the number of a man—that
	is, counted as men generally count. So the phrase is used in  :-. The number is the number of a man, not of God;
	he shall extol himself above the power of the Godhead, as the MAN
	of sin [AQUINAS].
	Though it is an imitation of the divine name, it is only human.
six hundred threescore and
	six—A and Vulgate write the numbers in full in the
	Greek. But B writes merely the three Greek letters
	standing for numbers, Ch, X, St. "C reads" 616, but
	IRENÆUS, 328, opposes
	this and maintains "666." IRENÆUS,
	in the second century, disciple of POLYCARP,
	John's disciple, explained this number as contained in the Greek
	letters of Lateinos (L being thirty; A, one; T, three hundred;
	E, five; I, ten; N, fifty; O, seventy; S, two hundred). The Latin
	is peculiarly the language of the Church of Rome in all her official
	acts; the forced unity of language in ritual being the counterfeit of
	the true unity; the premature and spurious anticipation of the real
	unity, only to be realized at Christ's coming, when all the earth
	shall speak "one language" ( :-). The last Antichrist may have a close connection with Rome,
	and so the name Lateinos (666) may apply to him. The Hebrew
	letters of Balaam amount to 666 [BUNSEN];
	a type of the false prophet, whose characteristic, like
	Balaam's, will be high spiritual knowledge perverted to Satanic ends.
	The number six is the world number; in 666 it occurs in units,
	tens, and hundreds. It is next neighbor to the sacred seven,
	but is severed from it by an impassable gulf. It is the number of
	the world given over to judgment; hence there is a pause between
	the sixth and seventh seals, and the sixth and seventh trumpets. The
	judgments on the world are complete in six; by the fulfilment
	of seven, the kingdoms of the world become Christ's. As twelve
	is the number of the Church, so six, its half, symbolizes the world
	kingdom broken. The raising of the six to tens and hundreds (higher
	powers) indicates that the beast, notwithstanding his progression to
	higher powers, can only rise to greater ripeness for judgment. Thus
	666, the judged world power, contrasts with the 144,000 sealed and
	transfigured ones (the Church number, twelve, squared and multiplied
	by one thousand, the number symbolizing the world pervaded by God;
	ten, the world number, raised to the power of three the number of
	God) [AUBERLEN]. The
	"mark" (Greek, "charagma") and
	"name" are one and the same. The first two radical letters
	of Christ (Greek, "Christos"), Ch
	and R, are the same as the first two of charagma, and
	were the imperial monogram of Christian Rome. Antichrist, personating
	Christ, adopts a symbol like, but not agreeing with, Christ's
	monogram, Ch, X, St; whereas the radicals in "Christ"
	are Ch, R, St. Papal Rome has similarly substituted the
	standard of the Keys for the standard of the Cross; so
	on the papal coinage (the image of power,  :-). The two first letters of "Christ," Ch, R,
	represent seven hundred, the perfect number. The Ch, X, St
	represent an imperfect number, a triple falling away
	(apostasy) from septenary perfection [WORDSWORTH].