3. One of—literally, "from
	among." 
	wounded . . . healed—twice
	again repeated emphatically (Revelation 13:12;
	Revelation 13:14); compare Revelation 17:8;
	Revelation 17:11, "the beast that
	was, and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit"
	(compare Revelation 13:11); the
	Germanic empire, the seventh head (revived in the eighth), as
	yet future in John's time (Revelation 13:11- :). Contrast the change whereby Nebuchadnezzar, being humbled
	from his self-deifying pride, was converted from his beast-like
	form and character to MAN'S
	form and true position towards God; symbolized by his eagle wings
	being plucked, and himself made to stand upon his feet as a man
	(Daniel 7:4). Here, on the contrary,
	the beast's head is not changed into a human head, but
	receives a deadly wound, that is, the world kingdom which this head
	represents does not truly turn to God, but for a time its God-opposed
	character remains paralyzed ("as it were slain"; the very
	words marking the beast's outward resemblance to the Lamb, "as
	it were slain," see on Revelation 5:6.
	Compare also the second beast's resemblance to the Lamb, Revelation 5:6- :). Though seemingly slain (Greek for
	"wounded"), it remains the beast still, to rise again in
	another form (Revelation 13:11). The
	first six heads were heathenish, Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Persia,
	Greece, Rome; the new seventh world power (the pagan German hordes
	pouring down on Christianized Rome), whereby Satan had hoped to
	stifle Christianity (Revelation 11:15;
	Revelation 11:16), became itself
	Christianized (answering to the beast's, as it were, deadly wound:
	it was slain, and it is not, Revelation 11:16- :). Its ascent out of the bottomless pit answers to
	the healing of its deadly wound (Revelation 11:16- :). No essential change is noticed in Daniel as effected by
	Christianity upon the fourth kingdom; it remains essentially
	God-opposed to the last. The beast, healed of its temporary
	and external wound, now returns, not only from the sea, but
	from the bottomless pit, whence it draws new Antichristian
	strength of hell (Revelation 13:3;
	Revelation 13:11; Revelation 13:12;
	Revelation 13:14; Revelation 11:7;
	Revelation 17:8). Compare the seven
	evil spirits taken into the temporarily dispossessed, and the
	last state worse than the first, Revelation 17:8- :. A new and worse heathenism breaks in upon the
	Christianized world, more devilish than the old one of the first
	heads of the beast. The latter was an apostasy only from the general
	revelation of God in nature and conscience; but this new one is from
	God's revelation of love in His Son. It culminates in Antichrist, the
	man of sin, the son of perdition (compare Revelation 17:8- :); 2 Thessalonians 2:3; compare 2 Thessalonians 2:3- :, the very characteristics of old heathenism (2 Thessalonians 2:3- :) [AUBERLEN].
	More than one wound seems to me to be meant, for example, that under
	Constantine (when the pagan worship of the emperor's image gave way
	to Christianity), followed by the healing, when image worship and the
	other papal errors were introduced into the Church; again, that at
	the Reformation, followed by the lethargic form of godliness
	without the power, and about to end in the last great apostasy,
	which I identify with the second beast (2 Thessalonians 2:3- :), Antichrist, the same seventh world power in another form.
	wondered after—followed
	with wondering gaze.