6. I beheld, and, lo—One
	oldest manuscript, A, omits "and, lo." Another, B, CYPRIAN,
	c., support, "and, lo," but omit, "and I beheld."
	in the midst of the
	throne—that is, not on the throne (compare  :-), but in the midst of the company ( :-) which was "round about the throne." 
	Lamb—Greek,
	"arnion" always found in Revelation exclusively,
	except in John 21:15 alone: it
	expresses endearment, namely, the endearing relation in which
	Christ now stands to us, as the consequence of His previous relation
	as the sacrificial Lamb. So also our relation to Him: He the
	precious Lamb, we His dear lambs, one with Him. BENGEL
	thinks there is in Greek, "arnion," the idea
	of taking the lead of the flock. Another object of the form
	Greek, "arnion," the Lamb, is to put Him in
	the more marked contrast to Greek, "therion,"
	the Beast. Elsewhere Greek, "amnos," is
	found, applying to Him as the paschal, sacrificial Lamb (John 21:15- :, Septuagint; John 1:29;
	John 1:36; Acts 8:32;
	1 Peter 1:19). 
	as it had been slain—bearing
	marks of His past death wounds. He was standing, though bearing the
	marks of one slain. In the midst of heavenly glory Christ crucified
	is still the prominent object. 
	seven horns—that is,
	perfect might, "seven" symbolizing perfection;
	"horns," might, in contrast to the horns of
	the Antichristian world powers, Revelation 17:3;
	Daniel 7:7; Daniel 7:20;
	Daniel 8:3. 
	seven eyes . . . the seven
	Spirits . . . sent forth—So one oldest manuscript, A. But B
	reads, "being sent forth." As the seven lamps
	before the throne represent the Spirit of God immanent in the
	Godhead, so the seven eyes of the Lamb represent the same
	sevenfold Spirit profluent from the incarnate Redeemer in His
	world-wide energy. The Greek for "sent forth,"
	apostellomena, or else apestalmenoi, is akin to the
	term "apostle," reminding us of the Spirit-impelled labors
	of Christ's apostles and minister throughout the world: if the
	present tense be read, as seems best, the idea will be that of those
	labors continually going on unto the end. "Eyes"
	symbolize His all-watchful and wise providence for His Church, and
	against her foes.