1. in, c.—Greek,
	"(lying) upon the right hand." His right hand was
	open and on it lay the book. On God's part there was no withholding
	of His future purposes as contained in the book: the only obstacle to
	unsealing it is stated in Revelation 5:3
	[ALFORD]. 
	book—rather, as accords
	with the ancient form of books, and with the writing on the
	backside, "a roll." The writing on the back
	implies fulness and completeness, so that nothing more needs to be
	added (Revelation 22:18). The roll, or
	book, appears from the context to be "the title-deed of man's
	inheritance" [DE
	BURGH] redeemed by Christ,
	and contains the successive steps by which He shall recover it from
	its usurper and obtain actual possession of the kingdom already
	"purchased" for Himself and His elect saints. However, no
	portion of the roll is said to be unfolded and read but
	simply the seals are successively opened, giving final
	access to its contents being read as a perfect whole, which shall not
	be until the events symbolized by the seals shall have been past,
	when Ephesians 3:10 shall receive its
	complete accomplishment, and the Lamb shall reveal God's
	providential plans in redemption in all their manifold beauties. Thus
	the opening of the seals will mean the successive steps by which God
	in Christ clears the way for the final opening and reading of the
	book at the visible setting up of the kingdom of Christ. Compare, at
	the grand consummation, Revelation 20:12,
	"Another book was opened . . . the book of life"; Revelation 20:12- :. None is worthy to do so save the Lamb, for He alone as
	such has redeemed man's forfeited inheritance, of which the book
	is the title-deed. The question (Revelation 20:12- :) is not (as commonly supposed), Who should reveal the
	destinies of the Church (for this any inspired prophet would be
	competent to do)? but, Who has the WORTH
	to give man a new title to his lost inheritance? [DE
	BURGH]. 
	sealed . . . seven
	seals—Greek, "sealed up," or "firmly
	sealed." The number seven (divided into four, the
	world-wide number, and three, the divine) abounds in Revelation and
	expresses completeness. Thus, the seven seals,
	representing all power given to the Lamb; the seven trumpets,
	by which the world kingdoms are shaken and overthrown, and the Lamb's
	kingdom ushered in; and the seven vials, by which the beast's
	kingdom is destroyed.