Analysis Of The ChapterThe object of this chapter 1 Timothy 3:0 is to give directions respecting the qualifications and duties of the officers of the Christian church. As it is evident that Timothy was to be partly employed in the appointment of suitable officers for the church at Ephesus, and as the kinds of officers here referred to were to be permanent in the church, it was important that a full statement should be put on record, under the influence of inspiration, respecting their qualifications and duties. The chapter embraces the following subjects: I. The qualifications of a bishop; 1 Timothy 3:1-7. The enumeration of his qualifications is preceded by a general statement that the office was an honorable one, and that he who aspired to it sought an employment that was, in itself, to be regarded as desirable; 1 Timothy 3:1. The qualifications specified for this office, are the following: (2)He must be a man who ruled his own house well, and who thus showed that he was qualified to preside as the first officer in the church of God; 1 Timothy 3:4-5. (3)He must be a man of suitable age and experience - one who would not be likely to fall into the temptations that are laid for the young; 1 Timothy 3:6. (4)He must have a fair reputation among those who were not Christians - as it is intended that the influence of his ministry shall reach them, and as it is impossible to do them good unless he is believed to be a man of integrity;1 Timothy 3:7; 1 Timothy 3:7. II. The qualifications of deacons; 1Ti 3:8-10, 1 Timothy 3:12-13. They must be: (2)Men who hold to the doctrines of the gospel with a pure conscience; 1 Timothy 3:9. (3)Men who have been proved, and who have shown that they are qualified to serve the church: 1 Timothy 3:10. (4)Men whose wives are of such a character that their example will contribute to the promotion of the common cause; 1 Timothy 3:11. (5)Men not living in polygamy, and who exercise exemplary family government; 1 Timothy 3:12-13. III. The reason why Paul gave these instructions to Timothy; 1 Timothy 3:14-15. It was, that he might know how he ought to demean himself in the important station which he was called to occupy. Paul hoped to be able to come to him before long, and to complete the work which he had commenced at Ephesus, but, in the meantime, he gave him these written councils, that he might understand particularly the duty which was required of him. IV. The chapter closes with a statemerit which seems to have been intended to impress the mind of Timothy with the importance of the duties in which he was engaged; 1 Timothy 3:15-16. The statement is, that the church is the great defender of the truth in the world 1 Timothy 3:15, and that the truth which the church is to maintain is of the greatest importance. It relates to the incarnation of the Son of God, and to the work which he accomplished on earth a work which excited the deepest interest in heaven, and the true doctrine respecting which it was of the utmost importance to keep up among people; 1 Timothy 3:16. This reason is further urged in the following chapter, by showing that the time would come when, under the influence of Satan, these great doctrines would be denied, and the truth be corrupted and perverted.  