 31 46. ] THE FINAL JUDGMENT OF ALL NATIONS.  Peculiar to Matthew . In the two former parables we have seen the difference between, and judgment of,  Christians in their inward readiness for their Lord, and their outward diligence in profiting by his gifts. And  both these had reference to that first resurrection and millennial Kingdom , the reality of which is proved by the passages of Scripture cited in the notes above, and during which  all Christians shall be judged. We now come to the great and universal judgment at the end of this period, also prophesied of distinctly in order in Rev 20:11-15 in which  all the dead , small and great, shall stand before God. This last great judgment answers to the judgment on Jerusalem,  after the Christians had escaped from it: to the gathering of the eagles (ministers of vengeance) to the carcase. Notice the precision of the words in Matthew 25:31 ,  ὅταν δὲ ἔλθῃ the  ὅταν setting forth the indefiniteness of the time the  δέ the distinction from the two parables foregoing; and  τότε  , to mark a precise time when all this shall take place a  day of judgment.
	Compare for the better understanding of the distinction, and connexion, of these ‘two comings’ of the Lord, 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 , and 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10 .
	This description is not a parable, though there are in it parabolic passages, e.g. ὥσπερ ὁ ποιμ . κ . τ . λ .: and for that very reason, that which is illustrated by those likenesses is  not itself parabolic . It will heighten our estimation of the wonderful sublimity of this description, when we recollect that it was spoken by the Lord  only three days before His sufferings .
	 ἐν τῇ δόξ  .   αὐτ  . ] This expression, repeated again at the end of the verse, is quite distinct from μετὰ δυνάμ . κ . δόξ . πολλῆς ch. Matthew 24:30 : see Revelation 20:11 . This  His glory is that also of all his saints, with whom He shall be accompanied: see Jude, Matthew 25:14 . In this his coming  they are with the angels , and  as the angels: see Revelation 19:14 (compare Mat 25:8 ): Zechariah 14:5 .