 26, 27. ] Luke prefixes ἐκ τοῦ στόματός σου κρινῶ σε , viz. ‘because, knowing the relation between us, that of absolute power on my part over thee, if thou hadst really thought me such an hard master,  ἔδει σε κ . τ . λ ., in order to avoid utter ruin. But this was  not thy real thought thou wert πονηρὸς κ . ὀκνηρός .’
	The  ᾔδεις  , &c. is not concessive, but hypothetical; God is  not really such a Master.
	 τοῖς τραπ. ] in Luke ( Luk 19:23 ) ἐπὶ τράπεζαν.
	τραπεζίτης is interpreted κολλυβιστής (see ch. Mat 21:12 ) by Hesychius. There was a saying very current among the early Fathers, γίνεσθε δόκιμοι τραπεζῖται , which some of them seem to attribute to the Lord, some to one of the Apostles. It is supposed by some to be taken from this place, and it is just possible it may have been: but it more likely was traditional, or from some apocryphal gospel. Suicer, Thes., under the word, discusses the question, and inclines to think that it was a way of expressing the general moral of the two parables in Matt. and Luke.
	But, in the  interpretation , who are these τραπεζῖται ? The explanation (Olsh., and adopted by Trench, Parables, p. 247) of their being those  stronger characters who may lead the more timid to the useful employment of gifts which they have not energy to use, is objectionable, (1) as not answering to the  character addressed he was not timid, but false and slothful; and (2) nor to the  facts of the case : for it is impossible to employ the grace given to one through  another’s means, without working one’s self.
	I rather take it to mean, ‘If thou hadst really been afraid, &c., slothful as thou art, thou mightest at least, without trouble to thyself, have provided that I should have not been defrauded of the interest of my money but now thou art both slothful and wicked, in having done me this injustice.’ Observe there would have been no praise due to the servant but τὸ ἐμόν would not have lost its τόκος . The  machinery of religious and charitable societies in our day is very much in the place of the τραπεζῖται . Let the subscribers to them take heed that they be not in the degraded case of this servant, even if his excuse had been genuine.