19. What? know ye not? c.—Proof
	that "he that fornicates sinneth against his own body" ( :-). 
	your body—not "bodies."
	As in 1 Corinthians 3:17, he represented
	the whole company of believers (souls and bodies), that is, the
	Church, as "the temple of God," the Spirit so here, the
	body of each individual of the Church is viewed as the ideal
	"temple of the Holy Ghost." So 1 Corinthians 3:17- :, which proves that not only the Church, but also each
	member of it, is "the temple of the Holy Ghost." Still
	though many the several members form one temple, the whole
	collectively being that which each is in miniature individually. Just
	as the Jews had one temple only, so in the fullest sense all
	Christian churches and individual believers form one temple only.
	Thus "YOUR [plural]
	body" is distinguished here from "HIS
	OWN [particular or individual] body" (1 Corinthians 3:17- :). In sinning against the latter, the fornicator sins against
	"your (ideal) body," that of "Christ," whose
	"members your bodies" are (1 Corinthians 3:17- :). In this consists the sin of fornication, that it is a
	sacrilegious desecration of God's temple to profane uses. The unseen,
	but much more efficient, Spirit of God in the spiritual temple now
	takes the place of the visible Shekinah in the old material temple.
	The whole man is the temple; the soul is the inmost shrine; the
	understanding and heart, the holy place; and the body, the porch and
	exterior of the edifice. Chastity is the guardian of the temple to
	prevent anything unclean entering which might provoke the indwelling
	God to abandon it as defiled [TERTULLIAN,
	On the Apparel of Women]. None but God can claim a temple;
	here the Holy Ghost is assigned one; therefore the Holy Ghost is God.
	not your own—The
	fornicator treats his body as if it were "his own," to give
	to a harlot if he pleases (1 Corinthians 3:17- :; compare 1 Corinthians 6:20).
	But we have no right to alienate our body which is the Lord's. In
	ancient servitude the person of the servant was wholly the property
	of the master, not his own. Purchase was one of the ways of
	acquiring a slave. Man has sold himself to sin (1 Kings 21:20;
	Romans 7:14). Christ buys him to
	Himself, to serve Him (Romans 7:14- :).