15. by the word of the Lord—Greek,
	"in," that is, in virtue of a direct revelation from
	the Lord to me. So 1 Kings 20:35.
	This is the "mystery," a truth once hidden, now revealed,
	which Paul shows (1 Corinthians 15:51;
	1 Corinthians 15:52). 
	prevent—that is,
	"anticipate." So far were the early Christians from
	regarding their departed brethren as anticipating them in
	entering glory, that they needed to be assured that those who remain
	to the coming of the Lord "will not anticipate them that are
	asleep." The "we" means whichever of us are
	alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord. The Spirit designed
	that believers in each successive age should live in continued
	expectation of the Lord's coming, not knowing but that they
	should be among those found alive at His coming (1 Corinthians 15:52- :). It is a sad fall from this blessed hope, that death
	is looked for by most men, rather than the coming of our Lord. Each
	successive generation in its time and place represents the generation
	which shall actually survive till His coming (Matthew 25:13;
	Romans 13:11; 1 Corinthians 15:51;
	James 5:9; 1 Peter 4:5;
	1 Peter 4:6). The Spirit subsequently
	revealed by Paul that which is not inconsistent with the expectation
	here taught of the Lord's coming at any time; namely, that His coming
	would not be until there should be a "falling away first"
	(2 Thessalonians 2:2; 2 Thessalonians 2:3);
	but as symptoms of this soon appeared, none could say but that still
	this precursory event might be realized, and so the Lord come in his
	day. Each successive revelation fills in the details of the general
	outline first given. So Paul subsequently, while still looking mainly
	for the Lord's coming to clothe him with his body from heaven, looks
	for going to be with Christ in the meanwhile (2 Corinthians 5:1-10;
	Philippians 1:6; Philippians 1:23;
	Philippians 3:20; Philippians 3:21;
	Philippians 4:5). EDMUNDS
	well says, The "we" is an affectionate identifying of
	ourselves with our fellows of all ages, as members of the same body,
	under the same Head, Christ Jesus. So Philippians 4:5- :, "God spake with us in Beth-el," that is,
	with Israel. "We did rejoice," that is, Israel at
	the Red Sea (Psalms 66:6). Though
	neither Hosea, nor David, was alive at the times referred to, yet
	each identifies himself with those that were present.