Revelation 13:1-10 .] THE VISION OF THE BEAST THAT CAME UP OUT OF THE SEA. See Daniel 7:7-8 ; Daniel 7:19-27 , to which continual reference will be made in the Commentary.  And he (the dragon)  stood upon the sand of the sea (see Daniel 7:2 , where the four winds of heaven are striving upon the great sea);  and I saw out of the sea a wild-beast coming up, having ten horns (now put first, because they are crowned. The ten horns are found also in the fourth beast of Dan 7:7 )  and seven heads, and upon his horns ten diadems, and upon his heads (notice the gen. ἐπὶ τῶν κεράτων and the accus. ἐπὶ τὰς κεφαλάς : the reason being probably, that the crowns are simply spoken of as in position on the horns, whereas the names were  inscribed on the heads, and the preposition takes the tinge of motion belonging to the act of inscription)  a name of blasphemy (whether (see digest) we read plural or singular, the meaning will be the same on each head a name. The heads are (see for the interpretation ch. Revelation 17:9-10 , where it is given by the angel) Kings, in the widest acceptation of the word; Kings, as representing their kingdoms; not necessarily individual Kings (see as above): the name or names of blasphemy, the divine titles given to those Kings, “Lord of the whole earth,” and the like: in the Roman form, “Deus” or “Divus.” Hereafter, when the great harlot succeeds to the character and symbolic details of the beast, this is carried yet further).  And the beast which I saw was like to a leopard, and its feet as of a bear, and its mouth as the mouth of a lion (thus uniting in itself the three previous kingdoms of Daniel 7:4 ff., the first of which was like a lion, the second like a bear, the third like a leopard; and in consequence representing, not the Roman Empire merely, but the aggregate of the Empires of this world as opposed to Christ and His kingdom).  And the dragon gave to it his might and his throne and great power (i. e. this beast, this earthly persecuting power, was the vicegerent and instrument of the devil, the prince of this world, and used by him for his purposes of hostility against the remnant of the seed of the woman).  And (I saw)  one from among his heads as it were wounded unto death (this seems to represent the Roman pagan Empire, which having long been a head of the beast, was crushed and to all appearance exterminated),  and the stroke of its death was healed (in the establishment of the Christian Roman Empire. The period now treated of is the same, introduced here by anticipation, but hereafter to be described in detail, as that during which the woman sits on the beast and guides it. Very many Commentators have explained these seven heads as individual kings, and supposed the one who was wounded to death to be Nero, and these last words to allude to the idea that Nero would return from the dead and become antichrist. But this idea was certainly not prevalent in this form at the time when the Apocalypse was written. Tacitus merely relates, that there were many rumours about Nero’s death, “eoque pluribus vivere eum fingentibus credentibusque,” Hist. ii. 8, and that on the strength of this, a Pseudo-Nero arose in the East, Hist. 1. ii, “mota etiam prope Parthorum arma falsi Neronis ludibrio.” See also the citations from the Sibylline oracles, Lactantius, and Sulpicius Severus, in Düst.’s note. The first who mentions the idea of Nero  returning from the dead , is Augustine, Civ. Dei xx. 19. 3, vol. vii. p. 686, in explaining 2 Thessalonians 2:3 ff.: “quidam putant hoc ( Rev 13:7 ) de imperio dictum fuisse Romano ut hoc quod dixit, jam enim mysterium iniquitatis operatur, Neronem voluerit intelligi, cujus jam facta velut Antichristi videbantur. Unde non-nulli ipsum resurrecturum et futurum Antichristum suspicantur.” But it is observable that Aug [111] does not connect the idea with the Apocalypse. This is first done by Sulp. Severus, and completed by Victorinus, whose very words (“unum autem de capitibus occisum in morte et plaga mortis ejus curata est, Neronem dicit. Constat enim, dum insequeretur eum equitatus missus a senatu, ipsam sibi gulam succidisse. Hunc ergo suscitatum Deus mittet regem dignum dignis, et Christum qualem meruerint Judæi”) betray the origin of the idea having been from this passage itself).  And the whole earth wondered after (pregnant construction for wondered at, as they followed, or gazed, after)  the beast, and worshipped the dragon, because he gave the (or,  his )  power to the beast, and worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like to the beast? And who is able to war with him (these words are a sort of parody, in their blasphemy, on ascriptions of praise to God: cf. besides reff., Psalms 112:5 ; Isaiah 40:18 ; Isaiah 40:25 ; Isaiah 46:5 ; Jeremiah 29:20 ( Jer 49:19 ); Micah 7:18 ; they represent to us the relapse into all the substantial blasphemies of paganism under the resuscitated Empire of Rome, and the retention of pagan titles and forms. I may remark, that nothing in those words finds any representative in the history of the times of the Pagan Empire)?  And there was given to it a mouth speaking great and blasphemous things (so we read of the little horn in Dan 7:8 ):  and there was given to it power to work (more probably, as in former reff., than “to spend” merely: this meaning is indeed found in latter reff., but the places in Daniel seem to decide for us)  forty-two months (the well-known period of the agency of antichrist = 3½ years = 1260 days: see Prolegomena, § v. 29 f.),  and he opened his mouth (spoken, see reff., of the commencement of a series of discourses. These Revelation 13:6-7 , in fact expand into detail that which Rev 13:5 gave compendiously)  for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, which dwell in heaven (the apposition is strange, but if the καί must be omitted, the meaning is to enhance the enormity of the blasphemy by bringing out the lofty nature of God’s holy Name and dwelling-place.  With the καί , the last clause would mean that he blasphemes them that dwell in heaven, i. e. the holy angels of God. To take this as still the meaning without the καί , is to introduce into the apocalyptic style an asyndeton which is not found in it).  And there was given to it to make war with the saints (see Dan 7:21 )  and to conquer them (see ch. Revelation 11:7 , of which this is a wider statement):  and there was given to it power over every tribe and people and tongue and nation (viz. universal empire).  And all shall worship it (  αὐτόν , though masculine, must be referred to the θηρίον , which has been now for some time spoken of as an agent, and not to an impersonation of it by a living king)  who dwell upon the earth , (  every one )  whose (the change into the singular arises from resolving πάντες into its component individuals)  name (  οὗ  …   αὐτοῦ , the usual Hellenistic redundance: see reff.)  is not written in the book of life of the Lamb which is slain from the foundation of the world (these last words are ambiguously placed. They may belong either to γέγραπται , or to ἐσφαγμένου . The former connexion is taken by Hammond, Bengel, Heinr., Ewald, Züllig, De Wette, Hengstb., Düsterd. But the other is far more obvious and natural: and had it not been for the apparent difficulty of the sense thus conveyed, the going so far back as to γέγραπται for a connexion would never have been thought of. See this remarkably shewn in the Catena: ὧν γέγραπται , ἀπὸ καταβολῆς κόσμου γέγραπται · οὕτω γὰρ δεῖ νοεῖν , οὐχ ὡς ἡ γραφὴ ἔχει · ὅτι μηδὲ ἀπὸ καταβολῆς κόσμου ἡ τοῦ ἀρνίου σφαγή . The difficulty however is but apparent: 1Pe 1:19-20 says more fully the same thing. That death of Christ which was foreordained from the foundation of the world, is said to have  taken place in the counsels of Him with whom the end and the beginning are one. Ch. Revelation 17:8 , which is cited by De W. as decisive for his view, is irrelevant. Of course where simply the writing in the book of life from the foundation of the world is expressed, no other element is to be introduced: but it does not therefore follow, that where, as here, other elements are by the construction introduced, that, and that alone is to be understood).
	 [111]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430