 20 .]  Behold, I stand at the door (the construction with the prep. of motion after  ἕστηκα , is perhaps owing to the idea of motion conveyed in the verb, “I have placed myself.” See reff., especially ref. Luke)  and knock (the reference to Son 5:2 is too plain to be for a moment doubted: and if so, the interpretation must be grounded in that conjugal relation between Christ and the church, Christ and the soul, of which that mysterious book is expressive. This being granted, we may well say, that the vivid depiction of Christ  standing at the door is introduced, to bring home to the lukewarm and careless church the truth of His constant presence, which she was so deeply forgetting. His  knocking was taking place partly by the utterance of these very rebukes ( ἐλέγχω ), partly by every interference in judgment and in mercy. Whenever His hand is heard, He is knocking at the door. But it is not His hand only that may be heard: see below):  if any man hear my voice (here we have more than the mere sound of his knock: He speaks. See Acts 12:13 f. κρούσαντος δὲ τοῦ Πέτρου τὴν θύραν … ἐπιγνοῦσα τὴν φωνὴν τοῦ Πέτρου . In that case we must conceive Rhoda to have asked “who is there?” and Peter to have answered. It may not be uninstructive to fill up this connexion in a similar manner. “It is I,” is an answer the soul may often hear, if it will enquire the reason of an unexpected knock at the door of its slumbers; or we may compare Song of Solomon 5:2 , φωνὴ ἀδελφιδοῦ μου κρούει ἐπὶ τὴν θύραν , Ἄνοιξόν μοι ),  and open the door ( ἀκούσῃ , ἀνοίξῃ , aorists, because prior in time to the futures which follow: “shall have heard,” “shall have opened:” but it would be pedantry thus to render them in our language. On the sense, cf. Song of Solomon 5:6 .
	Our verse is a striking and decisive testimony to the practical freedom of our will to receive or reject the heavenly Guest: without the recognition of which, the love and tenderness of the saying become a hideous mockery.
	We then open the door to Christ, when we admit Him, His voice, His commands, His example, to a share in our inner counsels and sources of action. To say that this can be done  without His grace, is ignorance: to say it is done only by that grace irresistibly exerted, is far worse it is, to deprive His gracious pleadings of all meaning), [  and ] (this καί is superfluous in the sense, merely expressing the sequence: and may on that account have been omitted)  I will enter in to him, and I will sup with him, and he with me (the imagery is taken from the usages of intimate hospitality. But whereas in these it would be merely the guest who would sup with the host who lets him in, here the guest becomes himself the host, because He is the bread of life, and the Giver of the great feast of fat things and of the great marriage supper (Matthew 8:11 ; Matthew 25:1 ff.; ch. Revelation 19:7 ; Rev 19:9 ).
	St. John is especially fond of reporting these sayings of reciprocity which our Lord uttered: cf. John 6:56 ( Joh 10:38 ), John 14:20 , John 15:4-5 , John 17:21 ; John 17:26 . This blessed admission of Christ into our hearts will lead to His becoming our guest, ever present with us, and sharing in all our blessings and, which is even more, to our being ever in close union with Him, partaking ever of His fulness, until we sit down at His table in his Kingdom).