 14 22 .] THE EPISTLE TO THE CHURCH IN LAODICEA.  And to the angel (not, the bishop or ruler, see on ch. Rev 1:20 )  of the church in Laodicea write: These things saith the Amen (see ref. Isa. Christ is the Amen, inasmuch as His words shall never pass away, but shall find certain ratification. This, and not the particular case which is treated in ref. 2 Cor., seems to be the reference here, where not the ratification of promises merely, but general fidelity and certainty are concerned: as Areth [64] , in Catena, ἰσοδυναμεῖ τοῦτο , τάδε λέγει ὁ ἁληθινὸς … ἀμὴν γάρ ἐστι τὸ ναί · ναὶ οὖν ἐστιν ἐν πᾶσι τοῖς περὶ αὐτοῦ λεγομένοις , ἤτοι ἀλήθεια καὶ οὐδὲν ψεῦδος . That expression is illustrative of this, but this takes the wider range. Züllig has imagined that the title here owes its occurrence to this being the last among the Seven Epistles: but this probably is mere fancy),  the faithful and true (on  ἀληθινός , see above, Rev 3:7 )  witness (there does not seem in this title to be any allusion to the prophecies which are about to follow in ch. 4 ff. as some (Grot., De Wette) have imagined. Far rather does it substantiate the witness borne in the Epistle itself, as we have seen in the case of the other introductions. See a lengthened notice of the title in Trench, p. 181 f.),  the beginning of the creation of God (= πρωτότοκος πάσης κτίσεως , ref. Col., where see note, as also Bleek on the Hebrews, vol. ii. 1, p. 43 note. In Him the whole creation of God is begun and conditioned: He is its source and primary fountain-head. The mere word ἀρχή would admit the meaning that Christ is the first created being: see Genesis 49:3 ; Deuteronomy 21:17 ; and Proverbs 8:22 . And so the Arians here take it, and some who have followed them: e. g. Castalio,” chef d’œuvre:” “omnium Dei operum excellentissimum atque primum:” and so Ewald and Züllig. But every consideration of the requirements of the context, and of the Person of Christ as set forth to us in this book, is against any such view. Others, as Calov., Bengel, Whitby, al., make  ἀρχή = ἄρχων , which is impossible: as it is also to interpret κτίσεως of the new spiritual creation, the church, as Ribera, Corn.-a-lap., Grot., Wetst., al. There can be little doubt that ἀρχή is to be taken in that pregnant sense in which we have it, e. g., in Wis 12:16 , ἡ γὰρ ἰσχύς σου δικαιοσύνης ἀρχή , Wis 14:27 , ἡ γὰρ τῶν … εἰδώλων θρησκεία παντὸς ἀρχὴ κακοῦ καὶ αἰτία καὶ πέρας ἐστίν : and in the Gospel of Nicodemus, p. ii. cap. vii. Tischdf. Ev. Apoc. p. 307, where Satan is said to be ἀρχὴ τοῦ θανάτου καὶ ῥίζα τῆς ἁμαρτίας , viz. the incipient cause. So Andr [65] , Areth [66] in Catena ( ἡ προκαταρκτικὴ αἰτία τῆς κτίσεως ), Lyra, Vitr., Wolf, Stern, Hengst., De Wette, Ebrard, Düsterd., al. The latter asks the questions, “How could Christ write if it were only this present Epistle, if he were himself a creature? How could every creature in heaven and earth adore him, if he were one of themselves (cf. ch. Rev 19:10 )? We need only think of the appellation of our Lord as the Α and Ω (ch. Revelation 22:13 ; cf. Rev 1:8 ) in its necessary fulness of import, and we shall see that in the Α lies the necessity of his being the ἀρχή of the Creation, as in the Ω that of his coming to bring the visible creation to an end”):  I know thy works, that (see above, Revelation 3:1 , where the construction is the same: I have thy whole course of life before me, and its testimony is, that …)  thou art neither cold nor hot (the peculiar use of the similitude of physical cold and heat here, makes it necessary to interpret the former of the two somewhat differently to its common acceptation: so that while ζεστός , from ζέω (cf. τῷ πνεύματι ζέοντες , Rom 12:11 ), keeps its meaning of  fervent , warm, and earnest in the life of faith and love, ψυχρός cannot here mean “dead and cold,” as we say of the listless and careless professor of religion: for this is just what these Laodiceans were, and what is expressed by χλιαρός below. So that we must, so to speak, go farther into coldness for ψυχρός , and take it as meaning, not only entirely without the spark of spiritual life, but also and chiefly, by consequence, openly belonging to the world without, and having no part nor lot in Christ’s church, and actively opposed to it. This, as well as the opposite state of spiritual fervour, would be an intelligible and plainly-marked condition: at all events, free from that danger of mixed motive and disregarded principle which belongs to the lukewarm state inasmuch as a man in earnest, be he right or wrong, is ever a better man than one professing what he does not feel.
	 [64] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [65] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [66] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	This necessity of interpretation here has been much and properly pressed by some of the later Commentators (De Wette, and more clearly still, Düsterd.), but was by the older ones very generally missed, and the coldness interpreted of the mere negative absence of spiritual life. So Andr [67] , Areth [68] in Catena, ψυχρός , ὁ ἐστερημένος τῆς τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος ἐνεργείας καὶ ἐπιφοιτήσεως : Grot., “qui nullam habet evangelii notitiam ac proinde nec ullos motus christianos:” so Bengel, Ebrard, and many others. There have been some singular interpretations, e. g. that of Lyra, “  frigidus , devitans transgressiones pœnæ timore:” of Ansbert, “quia nimirum ille eos glaciali quodammodo more constringit, qui dixit, ‘Sedebo in monte testamenti, in lateribus aquilonis.’ Aquilo itaque valde frigidissimus ventus,” &c.: of Hengstenberg, who regards both hot and cold as spoken of Christ’s servants in relation to Christ, and cold as equivalent to poor in spirit, conscious of one’s own coldness and desire for warmth. Any thing more opposed to the context cannot be imagined):  would that (reff., for both indic. and opt. usages)  thou wert cold or hot: so (see ref. It expresses the actual relation of facts to the wish just expressed, as not fulfilling it: = “quod cum non ita fiat”)  because thou art lukewarm ( τοῦ μηδέπω θερμαίνοντος , ὃ  χλιαρὸν καλεῖται , Galen. It is one of the many derivatives from χλίω , to melt),  and neither hot nor cold, I shall soon spue thee out of my mouth ( τῇ μεταφορᾷ τοῦ χλιαροῦ δεόντως ἐχρήσατο , ὃ καὶ ἰατρῶν παῖδες πλάδον ἐργαζόμενον εἰς ἔμετον ἐρεθίζειν παραλαμβάνουσιν . Areth [69] in Catena. The  μέλλω is a mild expression, carrying with it a possibility of the determination being changed, dependently on a change in the state of the church).
	 [67] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [68] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [69] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2