 17, 18 .] In these verses, the χλιαρότης is further expanded, as inducing miserable unconsciousness of defect and need, and empty self-sufficiency. And the charge comes in the form of solemn and affectionate counsel.  Because (this ὅτι forms the reason of συμβουλεύω below: =  seeing that … Cf. a similar construction in ch. Rev 18:7-8 )  thou sayest [  that ]  I am rich, and am become wealthy, and have need in nothing (the three expressions form a climax: the first giving the fact of being rich, the second the process of having become so (in which there is not merely outward fact, but some self-laudation: cf. ref. Hosea), the third the result, self-sufficingness. From the whole context it is evident that not outward worldly wealth, but imagined spiritual riches, are in question. The former is held to be meant by Andr [70] , Areth [71] , Aretius, Corn.-a-lap., Bengel, Ewald, Züllig, al., the latter by Bed [72] , Lyra, Ribera, Alcas., Grot., Calov., Vitringa, Eich., De W., Hengst., Ebrard, Düsterd., Trench. Stern thinks the wealth is partly worldly (Cicero, Epist. ad div. ii. 17, iii. 5; Strabo xii. 16: see on the wealth of Laodicea the Prolegg.), and partly spiritual. But thus the correspondence in our sentence would be confused. Stern is doubtless so far right, that the imagined spiritual self-sufficingness was the natural growth of an outwardly prosperous condition: but the great self-deceit of which the Lord here complains was not concerning worldly wealth, which was a patent fact, but concerning spiritual, which was a baseless fiction),  and knowest not that thou (  σύ , emphatic; “thou, of all others:” corresponding to the use of the article below)  art the wretched and [  the ]  pitiable one (  ὁ , as distinguished above others (not as De W., al., “  the well-known ”), as the person to whom above all others the epithets belong. And these epithets are especially opposed to οὐδὲν χρείαν ἔχω ),  and poor and blind and naked (are these adjectives all subordinate to ὁ preceding, or are they new predicates dependent on εἶ ? Better the latter, if only for the reason that the counsel which follows takes up these three points in order, thereby bringing them out as distinct from and not subordinate to the two preceding),  I advise thee (there is a deep irony in this word. One who  has need of nothing , yet needs counsel on the vital points of self-preservation)  to buy (at the cost only of thy good self-opinion. That a πτωχός should be advised to  buy gold and  raiment , and  ointment , might of itself shew what kind of buying is meant, even if Isaiah 55:1 , ἀγοράσατε … ἄνευ ἀργυρίου κ . τιμῆς , had not clearly defined it. Yet notwithstanding such clear warning not to go wrong, the Roman-Catholic expositors have here again handled the word of God deceitfully, and explained, as Lyra, “  Emere , operibus bonis:” Corn.-a-lap., “verbum ergo emendi significat, quod multa debet homo facere, et multa conferre, ut idoneus sit a Deo accipere ista dona.” Bed [73] and Ribera, somewhat better, “derelictis omnibus,” Bed [74] : “etiam cum voluptatum dispendio,” Rib. (which however is travelling out of the context, making the wealth to be earthly riches): Estius, better still, but curiously characteristic, “  Emere significat aliquod studium præcedens, quo ambiat charitatem (his interpretation of χρυσίον πεπυρ .): quod tamen etiam ex Deo est. Unde statui potest meritum congruum, respectu justificationis.” Far better again Ansbert, though missing the  point of ἀγοράσαι : “Numquid is qui miser et miserabilis et pauper et cæcus et nudus redarguitur, aliquid boni habet, quod pro tanto bono largitori suo tribuat, nisi forte prius ab ipso accipiat quod pro accipiendis aliis illi tribuat? Sic certe invenit quod det, qui nisi desuper acceperit, non habet quod det.” Augustine seems to be on the right track for the meaning of ἀγοράσαι when he says, “contende ut pro nomine Christi aliquid patiaris.” The term continues the irony. “All this lofty self-sufficiency must be expended in the labour of getting from Me these absolute necessaries.” So most of the later expositors. So even the R.-Cath. Stern, but disguising the truth under an appearance of a ‘quid pro quo;’ “  Welches ist der Kaufpreis? Hat nicht der Herr selbst gesagt, dass sie arm seien und elend, nakt und jammerlich? Ihr Herz sollen sie Christo hingeben, ihr Fuhlen, Denken, Wollen, und thatkraftiges Handeln; sich selbst ganz und gar dem Herrn zur Leibeigenschaft opfern , Mat 13:45-46 ”)  from me (who am the source of all true spiritual wealth, Eph 3:8 )  gold (  fresh )  burnt from the fire (the  ἐκ gives the sense of being just fresh from the burning or smelting, and thus not only tried by the process, but bright and new from the furnace. This is better than, with many Commentators, to make the ἐκ almost = ὑπό , signifying the source from which the πύρωσις comes, as ch. Revelation 8:11 .
	 [70] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [71] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [72] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [73] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [74] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	In the interpretation, this gold represents all spiritual πλοῦτος , in its sterling reality, as contrasted with that merely imaginary sort on which the Laodiceans prided themselves. It is narrowing it too much to interpret it as  caritas (cf. Estius above), or  fides , as Aret., Vitringa, Hengstb., al., or indeed any one spiritual grace, as distinguished from the sum total of them all),  that thou mayest be (aor., literally, mayest have become, viz., by the purchase)  rich: and white garments (Düsterd. rightly remarks that the white garments are distinct from the gold only in constituting a different image in the form of expression, not really in the thing signified. On the meaning, see Revelation 3:4 , ch. Revelation 7:14 , Revelation 19:8 . The lack of  righteousness , which can be only bought from Christ, and that at the price of all fancied righteousness of our own, is just as much a πτωχεία as the other),  that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy  nakedness be not made manifest (the choice of the word φανερωθῇ seems as if some particular time were in view when such manifestation would take place. If we are to assign one, it will naturally be that of the Lord’s coming, when τοὺς πάντας ἡμᾶς  φανερωθῆναι δεῖ ἔμπροσθεν τοῦ βήματος τοῦ χριστοῦ , 2 Corinthians 5:10 ; when the Lord of the Church will come to see his guests, and all not clad in the wedding robe will be cast out, Matthew 22:11 ff.),  and collyrium (the use of which is apparent from what follows. The κολλύριον was so called from its shape, being a stick or roll of ointment for the eyes, in the shape of a bread-cake, κόλλυρα or - ρις , 2 Kings 6:19 , LXX)  to anoint (from reff. Tobit, ἐγχρίειν appears to have been the common technical word for anointing the eyes)  thine eyes, that thou mayest see (in the spiritual interpretation, this collyrium will import the anointing of the Holy Spirit, which, like the gold of His unsearchable riches, and the white garment of His righteousness, is to be obtained from him, John 16:7 ( πέμψω αὐτὸν …), 14 ( ἐκ τοῦ ἐμοῦ λήμψεται .…); Acts 2:33 ( ἐξέχεεν τοῦτο ), and also at the price of the surrender of our own fancied wisdom. The analogy of 1 John 2:20 ; 1Jn 2:27 is not to be overlooked: see notes at those places).