 12 .] The reward of the conqueror.  He that conquereth (for the pendent nom., see ref.),  I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God (i. e. he shall have a fixed and important place in the glorified church hereafter. That this, and nothing referring to any honour or dignity in the church militant (so Lyra, Aretius, Grot., “Wetst., Schöttg., al.), or in that as leading on to the church triumphant (so Vitr., Corn.-a-lap., Stern, al.) is intended, is manifest from the whole diction of this passage, as well as from comparing the corresponding promises, which all refer to the blessings of the future state of glory. It is no objection to this view, that in the heavenly Jerusalem there is no temple, ch. Revelation 21:22 ; but rather a corroboration of it. That glorious city is all temple, and Christ’s victorious ones are its living stones and pillars. Thus as Düsterd. well remarks, the imagery of the church militant, 1 Corinthians 3:16 ff.; Ephesians 2:19 ff.; 1 Peter 2:5 ff., is transferred to the church triumphant, but with this difference, that the saints are no longer the stones merely, but now the pillars themselves, standing in their immovable firmness. On θεοῦ μου , see note on ch. Rev 2:7 ),  and out of it he shall never more go out (the subject is not the στύλος , but ὁ νικῶν ; and the sense, that he who is thus fixed in his eternal place as a pillar in the heavenly temple, will never more, from any cause, depart from it. Those Commentators who have understood the promise of the church  militant , have been obliged to take ἐξέλθῃ as a passive,” non ejicietur,” justifying this by such expressions as μήτι ὁ λύχνος ἔρχεται Mark 4:21 . Lyra takes it in both senses “nec per apostasin, nec per excommunicationem.” And thus, except that the latter word will have no place, we may well understand the general word ἐξέλθῃ : none shall thrust him out, nor shall he be any more in danger of falling, and thus thrusting himself out. It is well worth noticing, as Wetst. has done, the recorded fact, that Philadelphia was notorious for calamities by earthquake. The language in which Strabo describes this is remarkable in connexion with this promise of the pillar which should not be moved; ἥ τε Φιλαδέλφεια … οὐδὲ τοὺς τοίχους ἔχει πιστούς , ἀλλὰ καθ ʼ ἡμέραν τρόπον τινὰ σαλεύονται καὶ διΐστανται · διατελοῦσι δὲ προσέχοντες τῆς γῆς τοῖς πάθεσι , καὶ ἀρχιτεκτονοῦτες πρὸς αὐτήν , xii. p. 868 B: and still more so in xiii. p. 936 B, πόλις Φιλαδέλφεια σεισμῶν πληρής . οὐ γὰρ διαλείπουσιν οἱ τοῖχοι διϊστάμενοι , καὶ ἄλλοτ ʼ ἄλλο μέρος τῆς πόλεως κακοπαθοῦν · οἰκοῦσιν οὖν ὀλίγοι τὴν πόλιν διὰ τοῦτο · … ἀλλὰ καὶ τῶν ὀλίγων θαυμάζειν ἐστὶν ὅτι οὕτω φιλοχωροῦσιν ἐπισφαλεῖς τὰς οἰκήσεις ἔχοντες · ἔτι δ ʼ ἄν τις μᾶλλον θαυμάσειε τῶν κτισάντων αὐτήν . See also Tacit. Ann. ii. 47, where among the twelve cities of proconsular Asia which were overthrown by an earthquake, Philadelphia suffered, and was in consequence excused its taxes, and in common with the others entrusted to a senatorian commissioner to repair):  and I will write upon him (the conqueror; not as Grot., the pillar)  the name of my God (Wetst. quotes from the Rabbinical book Bava Bathra 75. 2, “R. Samuel filius Nachmanni ait, R. Jochananem dixisse, tres appellari nomine Dei S. B., justos ( Isa 43:7 ), Messiam ( Jer 23:6 ), Hierosolyma ( Eze 48:35 ).” Some think of the mitre frontlet of the high-priests, on which was inscribed “Holiness to the Lord,” Exodus 28:36 ; so Schöttg., Ewald, al. But this does not seem applicable here, where, from this and the following particulars, it is rather a blessed belonging to God and the holy city and Christ, that is imported, than the priestly office of the glorified Christian)  and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which descendeth (the appositive nom., see reff.)  out of heaven from my God (on the whole, see ch. Revelation 21:2-3 , and notes. It is  possible , that the name Jehovah Shammah, Ezekiel 48:35 , may be meant; but hardly probable, seeing that the Holy Name itself has before been mentioned as inscribed on him. The inscription of the name of the city would betoken citizenship),  and mine own new name (not the name mentioned ch. Revelation 19:16 , which is known and patent, but that indicated ch. Revelation 19:12 , ὃ οὐδεὶς οἶδεν εἰ μὴ αὐτός : for this is clearly pointed at by the word καινόν . By the inscription of this new name of the glorified Saviour is declared, that he belongs to Him in His new and glorious state of eternal rest and triumph).