 1 6 .] THE EPISTLE TO THE CHURCH AT SARDIS. The Spirit of this Epistle is one of rebuke and solemn denunciation. Even the promise, Revelation 3:5 , is tinged with the same hue. For the history, see Prolegg., § iii. 10.  And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: These things saith He that hath the seven spirits of God (this designation of our Lord has not before occurred: but as Düsterd. observes, it is new rather in form than in substance. We have mention in ch. Rev 1:4 of the seven spirits which are before God’s throne: and we there found occasion to interpret them of the plenitude of the Godhead in its attributes and energies. See, for further elucidation, ch. Revelation 4:5 , Revelation 5:6 . These spirits, this plenitude, Christ, the Lord of the church, possesses, is clothed and invested with, in all fulness. From Him the spiritual life of his churches comes as its source, in all its elements of vitality. He searches all the depths both of our depravity and of His own applications of grace. He has in his hand all the Spirit’s power of conviction. He wields the fire of purification and the fire of destruction. Whether the Spirit informs, or rebukes, or warns, or comforts, or promises, whether He softens or hardens men’s hearts, it is Christ who, searching the hearts as Son of God and feeling their feelings as Son of man, wields and applies the one and manifold Spirit.
	The designation here has its appropriateness in the whole character of this solemn Epistle. The Lord of the church comes, armed with all the powers of the Spirit; searching the depths of hypocrisy, judging of the worthlessness of works not done in faith. The difficulty of this general attribute of Christ, and not any one selected specially as applying to Sardis being here introduced, seems to be best accounted for, not, as Ebrard, by the general prophetic import of the Epistle, but by the fact that the minatory strain of the Epistle justifies the alleging the whole weight and majesty of the divine character of our Lord, to create alarm and bring about repentance)  and the seven stars (the former symbolism (reff.) still holds in all its strictness. Nor have we the least right here, as some (e. g. Arethas in Catena, and Wetst.), to suppose that the stars and the spirits are identical. The motive mentioned above would fully account for this designation also: The Lord of all the churches: He who appoints them their ministering angels, and has them, and all that is theirs, in His hand):  I know thy works, that (there is no need of a καί being inserted: the  ὅτι is the inference from the ἔργα )  thou hast a name that thon livest (I need only mention for warning the childish fancy, that the Bishop of Sardis was named Zosimus or Vitalis: so some blamed by Corn.-a-lap.: so, with approval, Bengel and Hengst. The expression explains itself: see ref. Herodot.: thou hast a repute that thou livest: art  nominally , as we commonly now say, Christian),  and (the mere copula carries the contrast far more vividly and pathetically than when it is made rhetorically complete by inserting “yet.” The  καί is not as Ebrard, “  hebraifirend für ἀλλά ” but is common in classical Greek, and indeed in all languages, in this sense)  art dead (spiritually dead: void of vitality and fruitfulness: sunk in that deep deadly sleep which, if not broken in upon and roused up, is death itself: so St. Paul, Ephesians 5:14 , ἔγειρε ὁ καθεύδων κ . ἀνάστα ἀπὸ τῶν νεκρῶν , κ . ἐπιφαύσει σοι ὁ χριστός : see reff.).  Be (  γίνου , because a change is involved: become what thou art not)  watchful (we can hardly help in English substituting the adj. for the participle “watching;” thereby losing the objective vividness of the pres. part., and getting instead a subjective attribute of character. “Awake and watch” would be, in paraphrase, tantamount to the text),  and strengthen the remaining things, which were (the time is transferred to that indicated by στήρισον : which were, when thou shalt apply thyself to strengthen them)  about to die (there is a question whether these  λοιπά are to be understood as  things , matters in which the Sardian church was not yet totally without spiritual vitality, or as  persons , who were not yet passed into the almost universal death-slumber of hypocrisy. The latter view is taken by (Andr [50] , Areth [51] , as reported in Düsterd.: but not in Catena, see below) Calov., Vitr., Eichh., De Wette, Stern, Ebrard, Düsterd., Trench, al. And there is nothing in the construction to preclude the view. But if I mistake not, there is in the context. For to assume that the  λοιποί could be thus described, would surely be to leave no room for those mentioned with so much praise below in Revelation 3:4 . Had τὰ λοιπά not occurred, we might have well understood στήρισον ἃ ἔμελλον ἀποθανεῖν of confirming those thy weak members who on account of the general deadness were near losing their spiritual life altogether: but with τὰ λοιπά this can hardly stand. We must therefore take the other view, “strengthen those thy remaining few graces, which in thy spiritual deadly slumber are not yet quite extinct.” And so Andr [52] and Areth [53] in Catena (I transcribe the whole, by which it appears that μέλη has been carelessly taken to mean personal members: see under the other view above), τὸν ὕπνον τῆς ῥᾳθυμίας ἀποτιναξάμενος , καὶ τὰ μέλη σου τὰ ἀποθνήσκειν τελέως μέλλοντα δι ʼ ἀπιστίαν στήριξον · οὐ γὰρ ἡ ἀρχὴ τῶν ἀγαθῶν ἔργων τὸν ἐργάτην στεφανοῖ τὸν δόκιμον ἀλλ ʼ ἡ ἑπιμονὴ ἄχρι τέλους . τὸ στήριξον δὲ οὐχ ἁπλῶς εἴρηται , ἀλλὰ τὸ οἱονεὶ στεῤῥοποίησον καὶ ἐνδυνάμωσον χαλαρά τε ὄντα καὶ πρὸς πτῶσιν ἑτοιμότατα . ἐφ ʼ ὅσον οὖν περιλείπεταί σοι , βραχέα ἐπιτηδεύματά , φησι , πρόσθες , ἵνα μὴ τέλεον ἀποσπάσῃς (qu. ἐπισπάσῃς ) θάνατον . ταῦτα γοῦν φύλαξον τὰ ἤδη ζῶντα , ἐκεῖνα δὲ στήριξον τὰ πρὸς θάνατον ἤδη ῥέποντα · οὐδὲν γάρ σου τῶν σπουδασμάτων πληρές ἐστιν · ἀλλὰ τὰ μὲν τέθνηκεν ἤδη , τὰ δὲ μέλλει : so also Grot., Beng., Ewald, al.):  for I have not found thy works (or, without the τά  I have not found (  any )  works of thine) complete in the sight of my God (up to the mark and measure of being acceptable to Him: i. e. not wrought in that living faith which alone renders human works acceptable to God, by uniting them to Him on whom the Father looks with perfect approval. Düsterd. well observes, “The express reference to the absolute rule of all Christian morality is here put the more strongly and strikingly, because this church had  among men a name that she lived.” The  μου binds on the judgment of Him who speaks to that of God).  Remember [  therefore ]  how (not subjective, “  with what manner of reception,” as even Düsterd., after many others, but objective, “after what sort,” “quomodo institutes fueris,” as Castalio: as οὕτως , Eph 4:20 ; 1 Corinthians 15:11 . Trench would unite both)  thou hast received (  perf. : of the permanent deposit of doctrine entrusted)  and heardest (  aor. , of the act of hearing, when it took place),  and keep (what thou hast received and heardest:  pres. , of an abiding habit)  and repent (not pres. now, as the command is of a quick and decisive act of amendment).  If therefore (the  οὖν is hardly, as De Wette, because it is assumed, in the present evil state of the Sardian church, that the exhortation will be in vain: far rather, as Düsterd. (alt.), Hengst., al., because repentance is so grievously needed. And it follows on the plain declaration which has been made of that present evil state; coming forcibly and unexpectedly, where we should rather have looked for δέ )  thou dost not watch (aor.: shalt not have awaked and become watchful, before the time about to be indicated in the threat which is coming),  I will come as a thief (these words do not here refer to our Lord’s final coming, but to some signal judgment in which He would overtake the Sardian church. Just as the formula derived from the great eschatological truth of the suddenness of His second coming is frequently applied to His final judgment in Jerusalem, so is it to other His partial and special advents to judgment in the case of individuals and churches),  and thou shalt not know (  οὐ μή , see on ch. Rev 2:11 )  at what hour (the accus. of the  time when has been called a Hebraism: so even De Wette from Gesenius: or an Aramaism, according to Ewald. But it is common enough in later Greek, and is only, in its first form, a particular case of the accusative of measure, whether of space or time: see Krüger, § 46, anm. 1, where he cites such common expressions, as ἐξήλθομεν ἔτος τουτί τρίτον εἰς Πάνακτον , Demosth.: Πρωταγόρας τρίτην ἤδη ἡμέραν ἐπιδεδήμηκεν . The change which the construction underwent seems to have been that which was usual in such cases; it lost its own peculiar significance of measure and duration, and became used where a mere point of time was in question. But even thus it finds abundant justification in good Greek in such expressions as that in Homer, Ιl. φ . 111, ἀλλ ʼ ἔπι τοι καὶ ἐμοὶ θάνατος καὶ μοῖρα κραταιὴ Ἔσσεται ἢ ἡώς , ἢ δείλης , ἢ μέσον ἦμαρ : in Herod, ii. 2, τὴν ὥρην ἐπαγινέειν σφίσι αἶγας : and in such accusatives as ἦμαρ , νύκτα , ἀρχήν , τέλος , πυκνά , and the like. See also Matthiæ, Gr. Gr. § 424, a)  I will come upon thee. Nevertheless (notwithstanding this state of apathy even to spiritual death)  thou hast (belonging to thee as members. Notice, as Bengel remarks, that these few had not separated themselves from the church in Sardis, notwithstanding its degraded state)  a few names (“homines nominatim recensiti,” as Vatabl. in Düsterd. See reff. The gloss. interim. is good: “quasi paucos nominates, i. e., bonos qui nominatione digni sunt.” The term would hardly be used except of a limited number. Hengstenb., with his usual fancifulness, in which he is here followed by Ebrard, finds an allusion in the ἔχεις ὀλίγα ὀνόματα to the ὄνομα ἔχεις ὅτι … above. It hardly needs remark, that the whole sense and connexion is different, the stress there on ὄνομα , here on ἔχεις . Besides which, in my judgment nothing can be further from the solemnity of the passage than the existence of such mere verbal allusions)  in Sardis, which (the peculiar form ὀνόματα carries its own gender through the first part of the verse; in the latter part the thing signified prevails, and we have ἄξιοι )  have not defiled their garments (the aor. is from the standing-point of the future day presently introduced, as so commonly when life is looked back on from the great time of retribution. The meaning of the figure (which occurs also in Jud 1:23 ) has been variously given. There can be little doubt that the simpler and more general explanation is the right one: viz., who have not sullied the purity of their Christian life by falling into sin. So the gloss. interlin., Lyra, al. m. It seems unnecessary, and introducing confusion, to specify further; either the garments as importing their flesh (Areth [54] , al.), their consciences (Alcas., Tirinus, Grot., Peiræus), the robe of Christ’s righteousness put on by faith (Calov.), the robe of baptismal purity (Ansbert, Bed [55] , Ribera, Corn.-a-lap., Hengst.), or again the keeping undefiled as consisting in abstinence from contact with the dead body of the rest of the church. This last view Ebrard attributes to Hengst., but it is not in his exposition here. He characteristically finds in ἐμόλυναν an allusion to Sardes = Sordes):  and they shall walk with me in white (so, not filling up λευκοῖς , E. V. admirably. The supply, ἱματίοις , comes below, Revelation 3:5 ; where see note. The white here is not to be identified with the undefiled garments which they now wear: it is a new and glorious hue of victory: see ch. Revelation 6:11 ; Revelation 7:9 ; Revelation 19:8 . The allusion which Schöttg., Vitringa, al., have imagined, to their priesthood, because when a judgment was held by the Sanhedrim on the priests, those who were condemned were clothed in black, while the blameless wore a white robe seems, like so many of these rabbinical illustrations, to be farfetched, and to spoil the simplicity of the passage. An allusion to Zechariah 3:3 ff. is far more obvious.  μετ  ʼ   ἐμοῦ , in remarkable accord with our Lord’s prayer in John 17:24 , πάτερ , ὃ δέδωκάς μοι , θέλω ἵνα ὅπου εἰμὶ ἐγὼ κἀκεῖνοι ὦσιν  μετ  ʼ   ἐμοῦ  : see also Luk 23:43 )  because they are worthy (the ἀξιότης here is found in the terms of the sentence itself. They have  kept their garments undefiled : they of all others then are the persons who should walk in the glorious white robes of heavenly triumph. Exactly thus in ch. Revelation 16:6 , αἷμα … ἐξέχεαν , καὶ αἷμα αὐτοῖς ἔδωκας πιεῖν ·  ἄξιοί εἰσιν . To dream of any merit here implied, is not only to miss, but to run counter to the sense of the whole saying and situation. The οὐκ ἐμόλυναν is only explained by ch. Revelation 7:14 , ἔπλυναν τὰς στολὰς αὐτῶν καὶ ἐλεύκαναν ἐν τῷ αἵματι τοῦ ἀρνίου : and as Vitringa excellently says, “  Dignitas hic notat proportionem et congruentiam, quæ erat inter  statum gratiæ quo fuerant in terris, et  gloriæ quam Dominus ipsis decreverat æstimandam ex ipsa lege gratiæ”).  He that conquereth, he (the reading οὕτως , found in so many manuscripts, may have arisen originally in the very usual confusion of ο and ω , and then have been retained, from not being altogether without meaning; “  thus ,” i. e, as those first mentioned. But this would perhaps be ὁμοίως , not οὕτως )  shall be clad in white garments (the concluding promise takes the hue of what had gone before, and identifies those just spoken of with these victorious ones):  and I will not wipe out his name out of the book of life (this again takes its colour from the preceding. Those who have a name that they  live , and are dead, are necessarily wiped out from the book of  life : only he whose name is a living name, can remain on those pages. Here again the Rabbinical expositors have gone wrong in imagining that the genealogical tables of the priests are alluded to. Far rather is the reference to the ordinary lists of citizens, or of living members of any body or society, from which the dead are struck out. So Wetst., citing Dio Chrys. Rhod. xxxi. p. 336 c, ὅταν δημοσίᾳ τινὰ δέῃ τῶν πολιτῶν ἀποθανεῖν ἐπ ʼ ἀδικήματι , πρότερον τὸ ὄνομα αὐτοῦ ἐξαλείφεται . And Aristoph. Pac [56] 1180, τοὺς μὲν ἐγγράφοντες ἡμῶν , τοὺς δ ʼ ἄνω τε καὶ κάτω ἐξαλεί φοντες δὶς ἢ τρίς . Thus they whose names have been once inscribed in this book, whether by their outward admission into Christ’s church in baptism, or by their becoming living members of Him by faith, if they endure to the end as His soldiers and servants, and obtain the victory, shall not, as all His mere professed members shall, have their names erased from it. The figure itself, of the book of life, is found as early as Exodus 32:32 f. See reff. for other places):  and I will confess his name in the presence of my Father and in the presence of his angels (see Matthew 10:32 ; Luke 12:8 , both of which are here combined, cf. Luke 9:26 , [57] Mark. The promise implies that in the great day the Judge will expressly acknowledge the name thus written in the book of life, as belonging to one of His. Cf. ch. Revelation 20:15 ; Revelation 21:27 ; also Matthew 7:23 ( Mat 25:12 ), where He repudiates those whom He knows not).
	 [50] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [51] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [52] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.
	 [53] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [54] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 [55] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [56] Pac  ianus, Bp. of Barcelona , 370
	 [57] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .