 7 13 .] THE EPISTLE TO THE CHURCH AT PHILADELPHIA. It has been remarked, that this Epistle hears a tinge throughout of O. T. language and imagery, correspondent to the circumstances of the church as connected with the Jews dwelling there. For the history, &c., see Prolegomena.  And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: These things saith the true One (it is doubtful whether the distinction between ἀληθινός and ἀληθής , which lies on the surface in ordinary usage, can be held firmly, on thorough examination of the places where the word occurs in the N. T. It is not easy for instance to justify the meaning “  genuine ,” “  answering fully to its name ,” in passages like John 7:28 ; and more experience in the habit of later Greek to break down the distinctions of derivative nouns has shaken me in the assertion of this meaning wherever the word occurs. Here, it would certainly appear as if it were chosen to declare an attribute of our Lord opposed to the λεγόντ . καὶ οὐκ εἰσὶν ἀλλὰ ψεύδονται below. Not that the meaning  genuine would be out of place in such a connexion: but that where ἀληθινός is used  absolutely , of a person, the two meanings,  genuine and  truthful , running up into one head of  truth , we must not in later diction press the one subordinate meaning as against the other. See for the distinction, which, however, is too exclusively pressed, Trench, N. T. Synonyms, § viii. The senses here to be avoided are, ὁ ἀληθῶς ἅγιος , as Corn.-a-lap. and Grot., thus losing the word altogether;  the real Messiah , in reference to the rejection of Him by the Jews, as Hengst. and Düsterd.;  He that  bears the truth , as the High-priest the Urim and Thummim, δήλωσιν κ . ἀλήθειαν , LXX, Exodus 28:26 (30); so Vitringa: “promissis suis stans,” as Ewald and Züllig),  the Holy One (as opposed to the συναγωγὴ τοῦ σατανᾶ below; not with reference to Christ’s High-priesthood, as Vitr.: nor as Eichhorn and Heinr., “legatus divinus:” but expressive of moral attribute),  He that hath the key of David (i. e. He that is the Heir and Lord of the abiding theocracy, as Düsterd. In Isaiah 22:22 , it is said of Eliakim son of Hilkiah, δώσω αὐτῷ τὴν κλεῖδα οἴκου Δαυεὶδ ἐπὶ τῷ ὤμῳ αὐτοῦ , καὶ ἀνοίξει καὶ οὐκ ἔσται ὁ ἀποκλείων καὶ κλείσει καὶ οὐκ ἔσται ὁ ἀνοίγων : which is manifestly the passage here incorporated into the Lord’s message: and the sense is, that whatever inferior degrees there may be of this power of opening and shutting the church (= the house of David, with reference to the false Jews below), the supreme power, the one true key, belongs to the Lord Christ alone. It is hardly justified, and serves but little purpose, to attempt to set up a distinction between τὴν κλεῖν τοῦ Δαυείδ here, and τὴν κλεῖδα οἴκου Δαυείδ in l. c. (so Hengst., Ebr., Düsterd.: see the idea well refuted in Vitringa.) The key is the same in both cases: but the One possesses it as his own by right, the other has it merely entrusted to him; laid on his shoulder. Some mistaken views have been: “potestatem aperiendi intellectum Scripturarum,” Lyra, so also Primas [58] , Bed [59] , Zega, al.: that Δαυείδ should be Τάφεθ , or Τώφεθ , and that our words mean the same as ch. Revelation 1:18 , ἔχω τὰς κλεῖς τοῦ θανάτου καὶ τοῦ ᾅδου (Wolf). This idea is quite distinct from that, and is closely connected with Revelation 3:8 , where the reference is entirely to the Church of God and success in God’s work. The same Lord of all has the keys both of the prison and of the palace; but these words refer to the latter alone. Cf. on the whole sense, Mat 16:19 ),  who openeth and no one shall shut, and shutteth (the construction is altered to the direct from the participial: as in Amos 5:7 , ὁ ποιῶν εἰς ὕψος κρίμα , καὶ δικαιοσύνην εἰς γῆν ἔθηκεν . This is said to be Hebraistic (De W.): but such irregularities are not confined to any particular language)  and no one shall open (these words are to be taken not merely of the power of Christ to forgive sins, but generally, as indeed the next verse requires. Christ only has power to admit into and exclude from His kingdom; to enlarge the work and opportunities of His Church, and to contract them):  I know thy works (these words stand by themselves; not, as De W. (so also Ewald and Bengel), as connected with ὅτι μικρὰν κ . τ . λ . below, the intervening sentence, ἰδοὺ … αὐτήν , being considered parenthetical.
	 [58] Primas  ius , Cent y . VI.
	 [59] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	They are words of comfort and support to the Philadelphian Church):  behold I have given before thee a door opened (i. e. hare granted, in my possession and administration of the key of David, that a door should stand opened. For the construction, see ref. The door is variously understood: by Lyra, al. (see above on Rev 3:7 ) as “ostium apertum ad scriptures intelligendas:” by Areth [60] , as τὴν εἴσοδον πρὸς ἀπόλαυσιν : by Bengel, as an entrance into the joy of thy Lord and so to an uninterrupted progress in all good; Eichhorn and Heinrichs, “aditus ad me tibi patet,” in the merely superficial sense of “bene tibi cupio:” most expositors take it to mean, as in reff. 1 Cor.; 2 Cor.; Col. (otherwise in ref. Acts), an opportunity for the mission work of the church. And this appears to be the true sense here, by what follows in Revelation 3:9 , promising conversion of those who were now foes. This connexion, which lies in the context itself, is made yet plainer by the ἰδοὺ δέδωκα … ἰδοὺ διδῶ … ἰδοὺ ποιήσω .
	 [60] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	 ἐνώπιόν σου , because the course is naturally  forward ),  which no one is able to shut (  it , redundant: see reff.):  because (not, as Vitr.,  etiamsi :  ὅτι gives the reason of what preceded; the Lord will confer this great advantage on the Philadelphian church,  because …)  thou hast little power (not as E. V. “  a little strength ,” thereby virtually reversing the sense of the words: μικρὰν ἔχεις δύν . importing “  thy strength is but small ,” and the E. V. importing “  thou hast some strength ,” the fact of its smallness vanishing under the indefinite term “  a little .”
	The meaning of this  μικράν must not be assigned as Lyra, “quia non dedi tibi gratiam miraculorum, sicut multis aliis episcopis illius temporis, recompensavi tibi intellectu sacrarum scripturarum excellenti” (see above), but it must be understood, as most Commentators, to have consisted in the fewness of the congregation of Christians there: possibly  also , as Hengst., in their poverty as contrasted with the wealth of their Jewish adversaries),  and (using that little well)  didst keep my word and didst not deny my name (the aorr. perhaps refer to some time of especial trial when both these temptations, to break Christ’s word and deny His name, were put before the church).  Behold, I give (not,  to thee , as Hengst., nor can we render it by “  patiar “as Wolf: the sense is broken off in the following clause, and the διδῶ resumed by ἰδοὺ ποιήσω αὐτοὺς ἵνα : see reff. in both places)  of the synagogue of Satan (see on ch. Revelation 2:9 , where the same expression occurs of outward Jews who were not real Jews),  who profess themselves to be Jews and they are not, but do lie, behold I will make them (this  αὐτούς is put as the object of the preceding verb rather than as the subject of the following, as in οἴδαμεν τοῦτον , πόθεν ἐστίν , not by a mere attraction of grammar, as usually represented (even in Winer, edn. 6, § 66. 5, a), but in the strictest logical propriety, αὐτούς being the object on which the action indicated by the preceding verb is exercised)  that they shall come (for  ἵνα aft. ποι ., and for the fut. indic, after ἵνα , see reff.),  and shall worship before thy feet (so in Isaiah 60:14 , “the sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee: and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet: and they shall call thee the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.” See also Isaiah 49:23 ; Zechariah 8:20-23 . These passages are decisive against the sense given by Corn.-a-lap., “significatur summa fidelium devotio, reverentia et submissio erga ecclesiam ejusque prælatos. Hæc enim adoratio procedit ex apprehensione excellentiæ prælatorum plusquam humanæ et minus quam divinæ:” a sense unknown to Estius and the better R.-Cath. expositors. Areth [61] in the catena says well: τούτους οὖν προσδραμεῖσθαι οὐ κατὰ τὸ τυχόν , ἀλλὰ μετὰ πολλῆς τῆς θερμότητος καὶ συντριβῆς φησί · τοῦτο γὰρ αἰνίττεται τὸ πρὸς τοὺς πόδας προσκυνῆσαι , καὶ ἐν ἐσχάτοις ἑλέσθαι τετάχθαι τῆς ἐκκλησίας , μόνον τοῦ μέρους εἶναι τῆς ἐκκλησίας ἀξιωθῆναι , ὡς καὶ Δαβὶδ ἀσπαστῶς φησιν ὁ προφήτης , “ ἐξελεξάμην παραῤῥιπτεῖσθαι ἐκ τῷ οἴκῳ τοῦ θεοῦ μου , μᾶλλον ἢ οἰκεῖν με ἐν σκηνώμαδι τῶν ἁμαρτωλῶν ”),  and that they may know that I loved thee (the English idiom requires, “have loved thee:” but the aor. has its propriety, referring as it does to the time preceding that in which they shall do this. Düsterd. takes it as used of that great proof which Christ gave of His love by dying for His church, appealing to the same aor. in Ephesians 5:25 ; Galatians 2:20 ; 1 John 4:10-11 . But thus we lose the especial reference to the particular church which seems to be involved in the recognition. It is the love bestowed on the Philadelphian church, in signalizing its success in the work of Christ, that these converted enemies shall recognize. Lyra’s explanation is curious and characteristic, “quia ego dilexi te, promovendo non solum ad fidem catholicam, sed etiam ad episcopalem dignitatem”).  Because thou didst keep the word of my endurance (the λόγος preached to thee, enjoining that ὑπομονή which belongs to Me and mine, see ch. Revelation 1:9 .  μου belongs to ὑπομονῆς alone, not to the whole τὸν λ . τῆς ὑπ . as Düsterd., Winer (edn. 6, § 34. 3, b), al. Such a construction would, I conceive, be indefensible: certainly all the places which are quoted as for it, are against it: viz. ch. Revelation 13:3 ; Colossians 1:13 ; Hebrews 1:3 . Had it been so here, I should have expected τὸν λόγον μου τῆς ὑπομονῆς ),  I also (I on my side: the  καί expressing reciprocity. And this reciprocity depends, in its form, on the close juxtaposition of the ὑπομονῆς μου and κἀγώ , which is materially interfered with by referring μου to the whole sentence and resolving τῆς ὑπομονῆς into a mere epithet: see above)  will keep thee (  σε emphatic and prominent)  from (  ἐκ , from out of the midst of: but whether by  immunity from , or by  being brought safe through , the preposition does not clearly define. Nor can the distinction which Düsterd., al., attempt to set up between τηρεῖν  ἐκ and τ .  ἀπό , be safely maintained. In comparing John 17:15 , οὐκ ἐρωτῶ ἵνα ἄρῃς αὐτοὺς ἐκ τοῦ κόσμου , ἀλλ ʼ ἵνα  τηρήσῃς αὐτοὺς  ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ , with James 1:27 , ἄσπιλον ἑαυτὸν  τηρεῖν ἀπὸ τοῦ κόσμου , it is not easy to see that the former implies passing scatheless through the evil, while the latter imports perfect immunity from it. This last we may grant: but is it not equally true in the other case? Revelation 7:14 , ἐρχ . ἐκ τῆς θλίψ ., which they cite on their side, is quite different: the local meaning of ἐκ being made decisive by the local verb ἔρχεσθαι )  the hour of temptation (the appointed season of sore trial,  τοῦ πειρασμοῦ , of the well-known and signal temptation. But the article cannot be expressed in English, because it would unavoidably become the antecedent to “  which ” following)  which is about to come upon the whole world (the time imported is that prophesied of in Matthew 24:21 ff., viz. the great time of trouble which shall be before the Lord’s second coming. As such, it is immediately connected with ἔρχομαι ταχύ following),  to try them that dwell upon the earth (see ch. Revelation 8:13 , &c., as in reff., where the expression applies to those who are not of the church of Christ. In this great trial, the servants of Christ shall be kept safe, ch. Revelation 7:3 . The trial of the πειρασμός will operate in two ways: on the faithful, by bringing out their fidelity; on the unfaithful and unbelieving, by hardening them in their impenitence, see ch. Revelation 9:20-21 , Revelation 16:11 ; Revelation 16:21 .
	 [61] Arethas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y . X. 2
	The expositors have in many cases gone away from this broad and obvious meaning here, and have sought to identify the ὥρα πειρασμοῦ with various periods of trial and persecution of the  Church : a line of interpretation carrying its own refutation with it in the very terms used in the text. Thus Grot. understands it of the persecution under Nero; Lyra, of the future increase of that “under Domitian, which was raging as the Apostle wrote: Alcas., Paræus, al., of those under Trajan: Primasius and Bed [62] , of the troubles which should arise on account of Antichrist, which is nearer the mark. Andr [63] and Arethas give the alternative: ἢ τὸν ἐπὶ Δομετιανοῦ διωγμὸν λέγει , δεύτερον ὄντα μετὰ Νέρωνα ὡς Εὐσέβιος ἱστορεῖ ὁ Παμφίλου , ὅτε καὶ αὐτὸς ὁ εὐαγγελιστὴς εἰς τὴν Πάτμον ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ τοῦ Δομετιανοῦ κατεκρίθη , ἢ τὴν ἐπὶ συντελείᾳ τοῦ αἰῶνος ὑπὸ τοῦ Ἀντιχρίστου κατὰ χριστιανῶν ἐσομένην παγκόσμιον , ἀναιροῦντος τοὺς χριστιανούς ).
	 [62] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [63] Andreas, Bp. of Cæsarea in Cappadocia, Cent y .  VI.