Transgression [παραβασεως] . Trench remarks upon "the mournfully numerous group of words" which express the different aspects of sin. It is aJmartia the missing of a mark; parabasiv the overpassing of a line; parakoh the disobedience to a voice; paraptwma a falling when one should have stood; ajgnohma ignorance of what one should know; htthma a diminishing of what should be rendered in full measure; ajnomia or paranomia non - observance of law; plhmmeleia discord. The primary sense of the preposition para is beside or by, with reference to a line or extended surface. Hence it indicates that which is not on its true line but beside it, either in the way of falling short or of going beyond. Thus, in the sense of going beyond, Romans 12:3, to think more highly than he ought [παρ ο δει] , where the sense of beyond is fixed by uJperfronein to think beyond or over. "So Luke 13:2. In the sense of falling short, Thucydides, 3, 49" Mitylene came near such peril "[παρα τοσουτο κινδυνου] , as if parallel to the danger but not touching it. Hence parabasiv differs from the Homeric uJperbasia transgression, in that the latter carries only the idea of going beyond or over. A mark or line as a standard is thus implied. Transgression implies something to transgress. With the law came in the possibility off transgressing the law." Where there is no law there is no transgression " (Romans 4:15). Hence Adam 's sin is called a transgression (Romans 5:14), because it was the violation of a definite command. Paul habitually uses the word and its kindred parabathv transgressor, of the transgression of a commandment distinctly given (Galatians 3:19; 1 Timothy 2:14, Romans 2:25, Romans 2:27). Hence it is peculiarly appropriate here of one who boasts in the law. It thus differs from aJmartia sin (see on sins, Matthew 1:21), in that one may sin without being under express law. See Romans 5:0. Sin [αμαρτια] was in the world until the law; i e. during the period prior to the law. Death reigned from Adam to Moses over those who had not sinned [αμαρτησαντας] after the similitude of Adam 's transgression [παραβασεως] . The sin is implicit, the transgression explicit.