Experiment of this ministration [δοκιμης της διακονιας ταυτης] . Commentators differ as to the interpretation; the difference hinging on the question whether the trial (experiment) applies to the service itself, or to those who render it : hence either "the proving of you by this ministration," as Rev., or the tried character of this ministration. Dokimh may mean, either the process of proving or the state of being approved, approvedness. The difference is immaterial. Your professed subjection [υποταγη της ομολογιας υμων] . A vicious hendiadys. Lit., as Rev., the obedience of your confession; that is, the obedience which results from your christian confession. Omologia is once rendered in A. V. confession, 1 Timothy 6:13; and elsewhere profession. Both renderings occur in 1 Timothy 6:12, 1 Timothy 6:13. Rev., in every case, confession. A similar variation occurs in the rendering of oJmologew, though in all but five of the twenty - three instances confess is used. Rev. retains profess in Matthew 7:23; Titus 1:16, and changes to confess in 1 Timothy 6:12. In Matthew 14:7, promised (A. V. and Rev., see note), and in Hebrews 13:15, giving thanks; Rev., which make confession. Etymologically, confession is the literal rendering of oJmologia, which is from oJmon together, legw to say; con together, fateor to say. The fundamental idea is that of saying the same thing as another; while profess (pro forth, fateor to say) is to declare openly. Hence, to profess Christ is to declare Him publicly as our Lord : to confess Christ is to declare agreement with all that He says. When Christ confesses His followers before the world, He makes a declaration in agreement with what is in His heart concerning them. Similarly, when He declares to the wicked "I never knew you" (" then will I profess, oJmologhsw "), a similar agreement between His thought and His declaration is implied. The two ideas run into each other, and the Rev. is right in the few cases in which it retains profess, since confess would be ambiguous. See, for example, Titus 1:16. Liberal distribution [απλοτητι της κοινωνιας] . Rev., correctly, liberality of your contribution. Koinwnia communion includes the idea of communication of material things, and hence sometimes means that which is communicated. See on Acts 2:42; so Romans 14:26; Hebrews 13:16. Compare the similar use of koinwnew, Romans 12:13, distributing; Philippians 4:15, communicated.