7. in the days of his flesh—
	(Hebrews 2:14; Hebrews 10:20).
	Hebrews 5:7-10 state
	summarily the subject about to be handled more fully in the seventh
	and eighth chapters. 
	when he had offered—rather,
	"in that He offered." His crying and tears
	were part of the experimental lesson of obedience which He submitted
	to learn from the Father (when God was qualifying Him for the high
	priesthood). "Who" is to be construed with "learned
	obedience" (or rather as Greek, "His
	obedience"; "the obedience" which we all know
	about). This all shows that "Christ glorified not Himself to be
	made an High Priest" (Hebrews 5:5),
	but was appointed thereto by the Father. 
	prayers and
	supplications—Greek, "both prayers and
	supplications." In Gethsemane, where He prayed thrice,
	and on the cross, where He cried, My God, my God . . . probably
	repeating inwardly all the twenty-second Psalm. "Prayers"
	refer to the mind: "supplications" also to the body
	(namely, the suppliant attitude) (Hebrews 5:5- :) [BENGEL]. 
	with strong crying and
	tears—The "tears" are an additional fact here
	communicated to us by the inspired apostle, not recorded in the
	Gospels, though implied. Matthew 26:37,
	"sorrowful and very heavy." Mark 14:33;
	Luke 22:44, "in an agony He
	prayed more earnestly . . . His sweat . . . great drops of blood
	falling down to the ground." Luke 22:44- : ("roaring . . . cry"), Psalms 22:2;
	Psalms 22:19; Psalms 22:21;
	Psalms 22:24; Psalms 69:3;
	Psalms 69:10, "I wept."
	able to save him from death—
	Mark 14:36, "All things are
	possible unto Thee" (Mark 14:36- :). His cry showed His entire participation of man's
	infirmity: His reference of His wish to the will of God, His sinless
	faith and obedience. 
	heard in that he feared—There
	is no intimation in the twenty-second Psalm, or the Gospels that
	Christ prayed to be saved from the mere act of dying. What He feared
	was the hiding of the Father's countenance. His holy filial love must
	rightly have shrunk from this strange and bitterest of trials without
	the imputation of impatience. To have been passively content at the
	approach of such a cloud would have been, not faith, but sin. The cup
	of death He prayed to be freed from was, not corporal, but spiritual
	death, that is, the (temporary) separation of His human soul from the
	light of God's countenance. His prayer was "heard" in His
	Father's strengthening Him so as to hold fast His unwavering faith
	under the trial (My God, my God, was still His filial
	cry under it, still claiming God as His, though God hid His face),
	and soon removing it in answer to His cry during the darkness on the
	cross, "My God, my God," c. But see below a further
	explanation of how He was heard. The Greek literally, is, "Was
	heard from His fear," that is, so as to be saved from His
	fear. Compare Psalms 22:21, which
	well accords with this, "Save me from the lion's mouth
	(His prayer): thou hast heard me from the horns of the
	unicorns." Or what better accords with the strict meaning of the
	Greek noun, "in consequence of His REVERENTIAL
	FEAR," that is, in that He shrank from the horrors
	of separation from the bright presence of the Father, yet was
	reverentially cautious by no thought or word of impatience to
	give way to a shadow of distrust or want of perfect filial love. In
	the same sense Hebrews 12:28 uses
	the noun, and Hebrews 11:7 the
	verb. ALFORD somewhat
	similarly translates, "By reason of His reverent submission."
	I prefer "reverent fear." The word in derivation
	means the cautious handling of some precious, yet delicate
	vessel, which with ruder handling might easily be broken [TRENCH].
	This fully agrees with Jesus' spirit, "If it be possible . . .
	nevertheless not My will, but Thy will be done" and with
	the context, Hebrews 5:5, "Glorified
	not Himself to be made an High Priest," implying reverent
	fear: wherein it appears He had the requisite for the office
	specified Hebrews 5:4, "No man
	taketh this honor unto himself." ALFORD
	well says, What is true in the Christian's life, that what we ask
	from God, though He may not grant in the form we wish, yet He grants
	in His own, and that a better form, does not hold good in Christ's
	case; for Christ's real prayer, "not My will, but Thine be
	done," in consistency with His reverent fear towards the Father,
	was granted in the very form in which it was expressed, not in
	another.