But thou hast fully known my doctrine ... - Margin, “been a diligent follower of.” The margin is more in accordance with the usual meaning of the Greek word, which means, properly, to accompany side by side; to follow closely; to trace out; to examine Luke 1:3, and to conform to. The meaning here, however, seems to be, that Timothy had an opportunity to follow out; i. e., to examine closely the manner of life of the apostle Paul. He had been so long his companion, that he had had the fullest opportunity of knowing how he had lived and taught, and how he had borne persecutions. The object of this reference to his own life and sufferings is evidently to encourage Timothy to bear persecutions and trials in the same manner; compare 2 Timothy 3:14. He saw, in the events which began already to develope themselves, that trials must be expected; he knew that all who would live holy lives must suffer persecution; and hence, he sought to prepare the mind of Timothy for the proper endurance of trials, by a reference to his own case. The word “doctrine,” here, refers to his “teaching,” or manner of giving instruction. It does not refer, as the word now does, to the opinions which he held; see the notes at 1 Timothy 4:16. In regard to the opportunities which Timothy had for knowing the manner of Paul’s life, see the introduction to the Epistle, and Paley, Hor. Paul., “in loc.” Timothy had been the companion of Paul during a considerable portion of the time after his conversion. The “persecutions” referred to here 2 Timothy 3:11 are those which occurred in the vicinity of Timothy’s native place, and which he would have had a particular opportunity of being acquainted with. This circumstance, and the fact that Paul did not refer to other persecutions in more remote places, is one of the “undesigned coincidences,” of which Paley has made so much in his incomparable little work - Horae Paulinae.Manner of life - Literally, “leading, guidance;” then, the method in which one is led - his manner of life; compare the notes at 1 Thessalonians 2:1.Purpose - Plans, or designs.Faith - Perhaps fidelity, or faithfulness.Long-suffering - With the evil passions of others, and their efforts to injure him. See the word explained in the notes at 1 Corinthians 13:4.Charity - see the notes at 1 Corinthians 13:0.Patience - “A calm temper, which suffers evils without murmuring or discontent.” Webster.