14. From sobriety of spirit
	and endurance of hope Peter passes to obedience, holiness,
	and reverential fear.
As—marking their
	present actual character as "born again" (1 Peter 1:3;
	1 Peter 1:22). 
	obedient children—Greek,
	"children of obedience": children to whom obedience
	is their characteristic and ruling nature, as a child is of the same
	nature as the mother and father. Contrast 1 Peter 1:22- :, "the children of disobedience." Compare 1 Peter 1:22- :, "obeying the Father" whose "children"
	ye are. Having the obedience of faith (compare 1 Peter 1:22- :) and so of practice (compare 1 Peter 1:16;
	1 Peter 1:18). "Faith is the
	highest obedience, because discharged to the highest command"
	[LUTHER]. 
	fashioning—The outward
	fashion (Greek, "schema") is fleeting,
	and merely on the surface. The "form," or conformation
	in the New Testament, is something deeper and more perfect and
	essential. 
	the former lusts in—which
	were characteristic of your state of ignorance of God: true of both
	Jews and Gentiles. The sanctification is first described negatively
	(1 Peter 1:14, "not fashioning
	yourselves," c. the putting off the old man, even in the outward
	fashion, as well as in the inward conformation), then
	positively (1 Peter 1:15, putting
	on the new man, compare Ephesians 4:22;
	Ephesians 4:24). "Lusts" flow
	from the original birth-sin (inherited from our first parents, who by
	self-willed desire brought sin into the world), the lust
	which, ever since man has been alienated from God, seeks to fill up
	with earthly things the emptiness of his being; the manifold forms
	which the mother-lust assumes are called in the plural lusts.
	In the regenerate, as far as the new man is concerned, which
	constitutes his truest self, "sin" no longer exists; but in
	the flesh or old man it does. Hence arises the conflict,
	uninterruptedly maintained through life, wherein the new man in the
	main prevails, and at last completely. But the natural man knows only
	the combat of his lusts with one another, or with the law, without
	power to conquer them.