21. by him—Compare "the
	faith which is by Him,"  :-. Through Christ: His Spirit, obtained for us in His
	resurrection and ascension, enabling us to believe. This verse
	excludes all who do not "by Him believe in God," and
	includes all of every age and clime that do. Literally, "are
	believers in God." "To believe IN
	(Greek, 'eis') God" expresses an internal
	trust: "by believing to love God, going INTO
	Him, and cleaving to Him, incorporated into His members. By this
	faith the ungodly is justified, so that thenceforth faith
	itself begins to work by love" [P. LOMBARD].
	To believe ON
	(Greek, "epi," or dative case) God
	expresses the confidence, which grounds itself on God,
	reposing on Him. "Faith IN
	(Greek, 'en') His blood" ( :-) implies that His blood is the element IN
	which faith has its proper and abiding place. Compare with this
	verse, 1 Peter 1:21; Acts 20:21,
	"Repentance toward (Greek, 'eis,' 'into,' turning
	towards and going into) God and faith toward (Greek,
	'eis,' 'into') Christ": where, as there is but one
	article to both repentance and faith, the two are
	inseparably joined as together forming one truth; where "repentance"
	is, there "faith" is; when one knows God the Father
	spiritually, then he must know the Son by whom alone we can come to
	the Father. In Christ we have life: if we have not the doctrine of
	Christ, we have not God. The only living way to God is through Christ
	and His sacrifice. 
	that raised him—The
	raising of Jesus by God is the special ground of our "believing":
	(1) because by it God declared openly His acceptance of Him as our
	righteous substitute; (2) because by it and His glorification He
	received power, namely, the Holy Spirit, to impart to His elect
	"faith": the same power enabling us to believe as raised
	Him from the dead. Our faith must not only be IN
	Christ, but BY and THROUGH
	Christ. "Since in Christ's resurrection and consequent dominion
	our safety is grounded, there 'faith' and 'hope' find their
	stay" [CALVIN]. 
	that your faith and hope
	might be in God—the object and effect of God's raising
	Christ. He states what was the actual result and fact, not an
	exhortation, except indirectly. Your faith flows from
	His resurrection; your hope from God's having "given
	Him glory" (compare 1 Peter 1:11,
	"glories"). Remember God's having raised and glorified
	Jesus as the anchor of your faith and hope in God, and so keep alive
	these graces. Apart from Christ we could have only feared, not
	believed and hoped in God. Compare 1 Peter 1:3;
	1 Peter 1:7-9; 1 Peter 1:13,
	on hope in connection with faith; love is introduced in
	1 Peter 1:22.