12. Not only was the future
	revealed to them, but this also, that these revelations of the future
	were given them not for themselves, but for our good in Gospel times.
	This, so far from disheartening, only quickened them in unselfishly
	testifying in the Spirit for the partial good of their own generation
	(only of believers), and for the full benefit of posterity. Contrast
	in Gospel times, Revelation 22:10. Not
	that their prophecies were unattended with spiritual instruction as
	to the Redeemer to their own generation, but the full light was not
	to be given till Messiah should come; it was well that they should
	have this "revealed" to them, lest they should be
	disheartened in not clearly discovering with all their inquiry and
	search the full particulars of the coming "salvation."
	To Daniel (Daniel 9:25; Daniel 9:26)
	the "time" was revealed. Our immense privileges are
	thus brought forth by contrast with theirs, notwithstanding that they
	had the great honor of Christ's Spirit speaking in them; and this, as
	an incentive to still greater earnestness on our part than even they
	manifested (1 Peter 1:13, c.). 
	us—The oldest
	manuscripts read "you," as in 1 Peter 1:13- :. This verse implies that we, Christians, may
	understand the prophecies by the Spirit's aid in their most important
	part, namely, so far as they have been already fulfilled. 
	with the Holy Ghost sent
	down—on Pentecost. The oldest manuscripts omit Greek
	preposition en, that is, "in" then translate, "by."
	The Evangelists speaking by the Holy Spirit were infallible
	witnesses. "The Spirit of Christ" was in the prophets also
	(1 Peter 1:11), but not manifestly,
	as in the case of the Christian Church and its first preachers, "SENT
	down from heaven." How favored are we in being ministered to, as
	to "salvation," by prophets and apostles alike, the latter
	now announcing the same things as actually fulfilled which the former
	foretold. 
	which things—"the
	things now reported unto you" by the evangelistic preachers
	"Christ's sufferings and the glory that should follow"
	(1 Peter 1:11; 1 Peter 1:12).
	angels—still higher
	than "the prophets" (1 Peter 1:12- :). Angels do not any more than ourselves possess an INTUITIVE
	knowledge of redemption. "To look into" in Greek is
	literally, "to bend over so as to look deeply into and see to
	the bottom of a thing." See on 1 Peter 1:12- :, on same word. As the cherubim stood bending over the mercy
	seat, the emblem of redemption, in the holiest place, so the angels
	intently gaze upon and desire to fathom the depths of "the great
	mystery of godliness, God manifest in the flesh, justified in the
	Spirit, seen of angels" (1 Peter 1:12- :). Their "ministry to the heirs of salvation"
	naturally disposes them to wish to penetrate this mystery as
	reflecting such glory on the love, justice, wisdom, and power of
	their and our God and Lord. They can know it only through its
	manifestation in the Church, as they personally have not the direct
	share in it that we have. "Angels have only the contrast between
	good and evil, without the power of conversion from sin to
	righteousness: witnessing such conversion in the Church, they long to
	penetrate the knowledge of the means whereby it is brought about"
	[HOFMAN in ALFORD].