5. kept—Greek, "who
	are being guarded." He answers the objection, Of what use is it
	that salvation is "reserved" for us in heaven, as in a calm
	secure haven, when we are tossed in the world as on a troubled sea in
	the midst of a thousand wrecks? [CALVIN].
	As the inheritance is "kept" ( :-) safely for the far distant "heirs," so must they
	be "guarded" in their persons so as to be sure of reaching
	it. Neither shall it be wanting to them, nor they to it. "We are
	guarded in the world as our inheritance is kept in heaven."
	This defines the "you" of  :-. The inheritance, remember, belongs only to those who "endure
	unto the end," being "guarded" by, or IN
	"the power of God, through faith." Contrast  :-. God Himself is our sole guarding power. "It is
	His power which saves us from our enemies. It is His
	long-suffering which saves us from ourselves" [BENGEL].
	Judges 1:1, "preserved in Christ
	Jesus"; Philippians 1:6; Philippians 4:7,
	"keep"; Greek, "guard," as here. This
	guarding is effected, on the part of God, by His "power,"
	the efficient cause; on the part of man, "through faith,"
	the effective means. 
	by—Greek, "in."
	The believer lives spiritually in God, and in virtue of His
	power, and God lives in him. "In" marks that the cause is
	inherent in the means, working organically through them with living
	influence, so that the means, in so far as the cause works
	organically through them, exist also in the cause. The power of God
	which guards the believer is no external force working upon him from
	without with mechanical necessity, but the spiritual power of God in
	which he lives, and with whose Spirit he is clothed. It comes down
	on, and then dwells in him, even as he is in it [STEIGER].
	Let none flatter himself he is being guarded by the power of God unto
	salvation, if he be not walking by faith. Neither speculative
	knowledge and reason, nor works of seeming charity, will avail,
	severed from faith. It is through faith that salvation is both
	received and kept. 
	unto salvation—the
	final end of the new birth. "Salvation," not merely
	accomplished for us in title by Christ, and made over to us on our
	believing, but actually manifested, and finally completed.
ready to be revealed—When
	Christ shall be revealed, it shall be revealed. The preparations for
	it are being made now, and began when Christ came: "All things
	are now ready"; the salvation is already accomplished,
	and only waits the Lord's time to be manifested: He "is ready to
	judge." 
	last time—the last day,
	closing the day of grace; the day of judgment, of redemption, of the
	restitution of all things, and of perdition of the ungodly.