4. To an inheritance—the
	object of our "hope" ( :-), which is therefore not a dead, but a "living"
	hope. The inheritance is the believer's already by title, being
	actually assigned to him; the entrance on its possession is future,
	and hoped for as a certainty. Being "begotten again" as a
	"son," he is an "heir," as earthly fathers beget
	children who shall inherit their goods. The inheritance
	is "salvation" (1 Peter 1:5;
	1 Peter 1:9); "the grace to be
	brought at the revelation of Christ" (1 Peter 1:9- :); "a crown of glory that fadeth not away." 
	incorruptible—not
	having within the germs of death. Negations of the imperfections
	which meet us on every side here are the chief means of conveying to
	our minds a conception of the heavenly things which "have not
	entered into the heart of man," and which we have not faculties
	now capable of fully knowing. Peter, sanguine, impulsive, and highly
	susceptible of outward impressions, was the more likely to feel
	painfully the deep-seated corruption which, lurking under the
	outward splendor of the loveliest of earthly things, dooms them soon
	to rottenness and decay. 
	undefiled—not stained
	as earthly goods by sin, either in the acquiring, or in the using of
	them; unsusceptible of any stain. "The rich man is either a
	dishonest man himself, or the heir of a dishonest man" [JEROME].
	Even Israel's inheritance was defiled by the people's sins.
	Defilement intrudes even on our holy things now, whereas God's
	service ought to be undefiled. 
	that fadeth not away—Contrast
	1 Peter 1:24. Even the most
	delicate part of the heavenly inheritance, its bloom, continues
	unfading. "In substance incorruptible; in purity
	undefiled; in beauty unfading" [ALFORD].
	reserved—kept up
	(Colossians 1:5, "laid up
	for you in heaven," 2 Timothy 4:8);
	Greek perfect, expressing a fixed and abiding state,
	"which has been and is reserved." The inheritance is in
	security, beyond risk, out of the reach of Satan, though we for whom
	it is reserved are still in the midst of dangers. Still, if we be
	believers, we too, as well as the inheritance, are "kept"
	(the same Greek, John 17:12)
	by Jesus safely (1 Peter 1:5). 
	in heaven—Greek,
	"in the heavens," where it can neither be destroyed nor
	plundered. It does not follow that, because it is now laid up
	in heaven, it shall not hereafter be on earth
	also. 
	for you—It is secure
	not only in itself from all misfortune, but also from all alienation,
	so that no other can receive it in your stead. He had said us (1 Peter 1:5- :); he now turns his address to the elect in order to encourage
	and exhort them.