15. Therefore—God's sovereign
	choice of believers, so far from being a ground for inaction on their
	part, is the strongest incentive to action and perseverance in it.
	Compare the argument, Philippians 2:12;
	Philippians 2:13, "Work out your
	own salvation, FOR it
	is God which worketh in you," c. We cannot fully explain this in
	theory but to the sincere and humble, the practical
	acting on the principle is plain. "Privilege first, duty
	afterwards" [EDMUNDS].
	stand fast—so as not to
	be "shaken or troubled" (Philippians 2:13- :). 
	hold—so as not to let
	go. Adding nothing, subtracting nothing [BENGEL].
	The Thessalonians had not held fast his oral instructions but had
	suffered themselves to be imposed upon by pretended
	spirit-revelations, and words and letters pretending to be from Paul
	(2 Thessalonians 2:2), to the effect that
	"the day of the Lord was instantly imminent." 
	traditions—truths
	delivered and transmitted orally, or in writing
	(2 Thessalonians 3:6; 1 Corinthians 11:2;
	Greek, "traditions"). The Greek verb from
	which the noun comes, is used by Paul in 2 Thessalonians 2:11;
	2 Thessalonians 15:3. From the three
	passages in which "tradition" is used in a good sense, Rome
	has argued for her accumulation of uninspired traditions,
	virtually overriding God's Word, while put forward as of co-ordinate
	authority with it. She forgets the ten passages (Matthew 15:2;
	Matthew 15:3; Matthew 15:6;
	Mark 7:3; Mark 7:5;
	Mark 7:8; Mark 7:9;
	Mark 7:13; Galatians 1:14;
	Colossians 2:8) stigmatizing man's
	uninspired traditions. Not even the apostles' sayings were all
	inspired (for example, Peter's dissimulation, Colossians 2:8- :), but only when they claimed to be so, as in their words
	afterwards embodied in their canonical writings. Oral inspiration was
	necessary in their case, until the canon of the written Word should
	be complete; they proved their possession of inspiration by miracles
	wrought in support of the new revelation, which revelation, moreover,
	accorded with the existing Old Testament revelation; an additional
	test needed besides miracles (compare Deuteronomy 13:1-6;
	Acts 17:11). When the canon was
	complete, the infallibility of the living men was transferred to the
	written Word, now the sole unerring guide, interpreted by the Holy
	Spirit. Little else has come down to us by the most ancient
	and universal tradition save this, the all-sufficiency of
	Scripture for salvation. Therefore, by tradition, we are constrained
	to cast off all tradition not contained in, or not provable by,
	Scripture. The Fathers are valuable witnesses to historical facts,
	which give force to the intimations of Scripture: such as the
	Christian Lord's day, the baptism of infants, and the genuineness of
	the canon of Scripture. Tradition (in the sense of human
	testimony) cannot establish a doctrine, but can
	authenticate a fact, such as the facts just mentioned.
	Inspired tradition, in Paul's sense, is not a supplementary oral
	tradition completing our written Word, but it is identical
	with the written Word now complete; then the latter not being
	complete, the tradition was necessarily in part oral, in part
	written, and continued so until, the latter being complete before the
	death of St. John, the last apostle, the former was no longer needed.
	Scripture is, according to Paul, the complete and sufficient rule in
	all that appertains to making "the man of God perfect,
	throughly furnished unto all good works" (2 Timothy 3:16;
	2 Timothy 3:17). It is by leaving
	Paul's God-inspired tradition for human traditions that Rome has
	become the forerunner and parent of the Antichrist. It is striking
	that, from this very chapter denouncing Antichrist, she should draw
	an argument for her "traditions" by which she fosters
	anti-Christianity. Because the apostles' oral word was as trustworthy
	as their written word, it by no means follows that the oral word of
	those not apostles is as trustworthy as the written
	word of those who were apostles or inspired evangelists. No tradition
	of the apostles except their written word can be proved
	genuine on satisfactory evidence. We are no more bound to accept
	implicitly the Fathers' interpretations of Scripture, because we
	accept the Scripture canon on their testimony, than we are bound to
	accept the Jews' interpretation of the Old Testament, because we
	accept the Old Testament canon on their testimony. 
	our epistle—as
	distinguished from a "letter AS from us," 2 Timothy 3:17- :, namely, that purports to be from us, but is not. He refers
	to his first Epistle to the Thessalonians.