8. Translate, "the lawless
	one"; the embodiment of all the godless "lawlessness"
	which has been working in "mystery" for ages ( :-): "the man of sin" ( :-). 
	whom the Lord—Some of
	the oldest manuscripts read, "the Lord Jesus." How
	awful that He whose very name means God-Saviour, should appear
	as the Destroyer; but the salvation of the Church requires the
	destruction of her foe. As the reign of Israel in Canaan was ushered
	in by judgments on the nations for apostasy (for the
	Canaanites were originally worshippers of the true God: thus
	Melchisedek, king of Salem, was the "priest of the most high
	God," Genesis 14:18: Ammon and
	Moab came from righteous Lot), so the Son of David's reign in Zion
	and over the whole earth, is to be ushered in by judgments on the
	apostate Christian world. 
	consume . . . and . . .
	destroy—So Daniel 7:26,
	"consume and destroy"; Daniel 7:26- :. He shall "consume" him by His mere breath
	(Isaiah 11:4; Isaiah 30:33):
	the sentence of judgment being the sharp sword that goeth out of His
	mouth (Revelation 19:15; Revelation 19:21).
	Antichrist's manifestation and destruction are declared in the same
	breath; at his greatest height he is nearest his fall, like Herod his
	type (Isaiah 1:24-27; Acts 12:20-23).
	As the advancing fire, while still at a distance consumes little
	insects [CHRYSOSTOM] by
	its mere heat, so Christ's mere approach is enough to consume
	Antichrist. The mere "appearance of the coming" of the Lord
	of glory is sufficient to show to Antichrist his perfect nothingness.
	He is seized and "cast alive into the take of fire" (Acts 12:20-44.12.23- :). So the world kingdoms, and the kingdom of the beast, give
	place to that of the Son of man and His saints. The Greek for
	"destroy" means "abolish" (the same Greek
	is so translated, 2 Timothy 1:10);
	that is, cause every vestige of him to disappear. Compare as to Gog
	attacking Israel and destroyed by Jehovah (2 Timothy 1:10- :), so as not to leave a vestige of him. 
	with the brightness of his
	coming—Greek, "the manifestation, (or
	appearance) of His presence": the first outburst
	of His advent—the first gleam of His presence—is enough to
	abolish utterly all traces of Antichrist, as darkness
	disappears before the dawning day. Next, his adherents are "slain
	with the sword out of His mouth" (2 Timothy 1:10- :). BENGEL'S
	distinction between "the appearance of His coming" and the
	"coming" itself is not justified by 1 Timothy 6:14;
	2 Timothy 1:10; 2 Timothy 4:1;
	2 Timothy 4:8; Titus 2:13,
	where the same Greek for "appearing" (English
	Version, here "the brightness") plainly refers to the
	coming itself. The expression, "manifestation
	(appearing) of His presence," is used in awful contrast to the
	revelation of the wicked one in the beginning of the verse.