7. the mystery of iniquity—the
	counterwork to "the mystery of godliness" ( :-). Anti-Christianity latently working, as
	distinguished from its final open manifestation. "Mystery"
	in Scripture means, not what remains always a secret, but that which
	is for a while hidden, but in due time manifested (compare Ephesians 3:4;
	Ephesians 3:5). Satan will resort to a
	mode of opposition more conformed to the then imminent "appearing"
	and "presence" of the Saviour, and will anticipate Him with
	a last effort to maintain the dominion of the world [DE
	BURGH], just as at His
	first advent he rushed into open opposition, by taking possession of
	the bodies of men. "Iniquity," Greek, "lawlessness";
	defiant rejection of God's law (compare Note, see on
	Ephesians 3:5- :, Ephesians 3:5- :). "Wickedness" (translated by the
	Septuagint by the same Greek, meaning "lawlessness,"
	which Paul employs here), embodied there as a woman, answers to "the
	mystery of iniquity," here embodied finally in "the man of
	sin": as the former was ultimately banished for ever from the
	Holy Land to her own congenial soil, Babylon, so iniquity and the man
	of sin shall fall before Michael and the Lord Himself, who shall
	appear as the Deliverer of His people (Daniel 12:1-3;
	Zechariah 14:3-9). Compare Zechariah 14:3-38.14.9- :. The Jewish nation dispossessed of the evil spirit, the
	demon of idolatry being cast out through the Babylonian captivity,
	receives ultimately a worse form of the evil spirit, Christ-opposing
	self-righteousness. Also, the Christian Church in course of time
	taken possession of by the demon of Romish idolatry, then
	dispossessed of it by the Reformation, then its house "garnished"
	by hypocrisy, secularity, and rationalism, but "swept empty"
	of living faith, then finally apostatizing and repossessed by "the
	man of sin," and outwardly destroyed for a brief time
	(though even then Christ shall have witnesses for Him among both the
	Jews, Zechariah 13:9, and Gentiles,
	Matthew 28:20), when Christ shall
	suddenly come (Daniel 11:32-45;
	Luke 18:7; Luke 18:8).
	already— (2 John 1:9;
	2 John 1:10; Colossians 2:18-23;
	1 Timothy 4:1); compare "even now
	already" (1 John 2:18; 1 John 4:3)
	as distinguished from "in his own time" of being revealed
	hereafter. Antiquity, it appears from hence, is not a
	justification for unscriptural usages or dogmas, since these were
	"already," even in Paul's time, beginning to spring up: the
	written word is the only sure test. "Judaism infecting
	Christianity is the fuel; the mystery of iniquity is the spark."
	"It is one and the same impurity diffusing itself over many
	ages" [BENGEL]. 
	only he who now letteth will
	let —The italicized words are not in the Greek.
	Therefore, translate rather, "only (that is, the continuance of
	the MYSTERY of
	iniquity-working will be only) until he who now
	withholdeth (the same Greek as in 1 John 4:3- :) be taken out of the way." "Only (waiting,
Hebrews 10:13) until he," &c.
	Then it will work no longer in mystery, but in open
	manifestation.