6. now ye know—by my having
	told you. The power must have been one "known" to the
	Thessalonians. 
	what withholdeth—that
	which holds him back; "keeps him in check":
	the power that has restrained the man of sin from his full and final
	development, is the moral and conservative influence of political
	states [OLSHAUSEN]:
	the fabric of human polity as a coercive power; as "he
	who now letteth" refers to those who rule that polity by
	which the great upbursting of godlessness is kept down [ALFORD].
	The "what withholdeth" refers to the general hindrance;
	"he who now letteth," to the person in whom that
	hindrance is summed up. Romanism, as a forerunner of Antichrist,
	was thus kept in check by the Romanemperor (the then
	representative of the coercive power) until Constantine, having
	removed the seat of empire to Constantinople, the Roman bishop by
	degrees first raised himself to precedency, then to primacy, and then
	to sole empire above the secular power. The historical fact from
	which Paul starts in his prediction was probably the emperor
	Claudius' expulsion of the Jews, the representative of the
	anti-Christian adversary in Paul's day, from Rome, thus "withholding"
	them in some degree in their attacks on Christianity; this suggested
	the principle holding good to the end of time, and about to find its
	final fulfilment in the removal of the withholding person or
	authority, whereupon Antichrist in his worst shape shall start
	up. 
	that he might be—Greek,
	"in order that": ye know that which keeps him back, in
	God's purposes, from being sooner manifested, "in order that
	he may be revealed in his own time" (that is, the
	time appointed by God to him as his proper time for being
	manifested), not sooner (compare  :-). The removal of the withholding power will be when the
	civil polity, derived from the Roman empire, which is to be, in its
	last form, divided into ten kingdoms (Revelation 17:3;
	Revelation 17:11-13), shall, with
	its leading representative head for the time being ("he who now
	letteth," Greek, "withholdeth," as in Revelation 17:11-66.17.13- :), yield to the prevalent godless "lawlessness" with
	"the lawless one" as its embodiment. The elect Church
	and the Spirit cannot well be, as DE
	BURGH suggests, the
	withholding power meant; for both shall never be wholly
	"taken out of the way" (Revelation 17:11-66.17.13- :). However, the testimony of the elect Church, and
	the Spirit in her, are the great hindrance to the rise of the
	apostasy; and it is possible that, though the Lord shall have a
	faithful few even then, yet the full energy of the Spirit in the
	visible Church, counteracting the energy or "working"
	of "the mystery of lawlessness" by the testimony of the
	elect, shall have been so far "taken out of the way," or
	set aside, as to admit the manifestation of "the lawless
	one"; and so DE
	BURGH'S'S view may be
	right (Luke 18:8; Revelation 11:3-12).
	This was a power of which the Thessalonians might easily "know"
	through Paul's instruction.