12. Wherefore—Seeing that we
	have in Christ such a specimen of glory resulting from "obedience"
	(Philippians 2:8) and humiliation, see
	that ye also be "obedient," and so "your
	salvation" shall follow your obedience. 
	as ye have . . . obeyed—"even
	as ye have been obedient," namely, to God, as Jesus
	was "obedient" unto God (see on Philippians 2:8- :). 
	not as, c.—"not as
	if" it were a matter to be done "in my presence only,
	but now (as things are) much more (with more earnestness) in my
	absence (because my help is withdrawn from you)" [ALFORD].
	work out—carry out to
	its full perfection. "Salvation" is "worked in"
	(Philippians 2:13 Ephesians 1:11)
	believers by the Spirit, who enables them through faith to be
	justified once for all; but it needs, as a progressive work,
	to be "worked out" by obedience, through the help of
	the same Spirit, unto perfection (Ephesians 1:11- :). The sound Christian neither, like the formalist, rests in
	the means, without looking to the end, and to the Holy Spirit who
	alone can make the means effectual; nor, like the fanatic, hopes to
	attain the end without the means. 
	your own—The emphasis
	is on this. Now that I am not present to further the work of
	your salvation, "work out your own salvation"
	yourselves the more carefully. Do not think this work cannot go on
	because I am absent; "for (Ephesians 1:11- :) it is God that worketh in you," c. In this case adopt
	a rule different from the former (Ephesians 1:11- :), but resting on the same principle of "lowliness of
	mind" (Philippians 2:3), namely,
	"look each on his own things," instead of
	"disputings" with others (Philippians 2:3- :). 
	salvation—which is in
	"Jesus" (Philippians 2:10),
	as His name (meaning God-Saviour) implies. 
	with fear and trembling—the
	very feeling enjoined on "servants," as to what ought to
	accompany their "obedience" (Philippians 2:10- :). So here: See that, as "servants" to God, after
	the example of Christ, ye be so "with the fear and trembling"
	which becomes servants not slavish fear, but trembling anxiety not
	to fall short of the goal (1 Corinthians 9:26;
	1 Corinthians 9:27; Hebrews 4:1,
	"Let us fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into His
	rest, any should come short of it"), resulting from a sense
	of our human insufficiency, and from the consciousness that all
	depends on the power of God, "who worketh both to will and
	to do" (Romans 11:20). "Paul,
	though joyous, writes seriously" [J. J. WOLF].