20. Translate as Greek,
	"Built up upon," c. (participle having been built up
	upon; omit, therefore, "and are"). Compare 1 Corinthians 3:11;
	1 Corinthians 3:12. The same image in 1 Corinthians 3:12- :, recurs in his address to the Ephesian elders (1 Corinthians 3:12- :), and in his Epistle to Timothy at Ephesus (1 Timothy 3:15;
	2 Timothy 2:19), naturally suggested by
	the splendid architecture of Diana's temple; the glory of the
	Christian temple is eternal and real, not mere idolatrous gaud. The
	image of a building is appropriate also to the Jew-Christians; as the
	temple at Jerusalem was the stronghold of Judaism; as Diana's temple,
	of paganism. 
	foundation of the apostles,
	c.—that is, upon their ministry and living example (compare 2 Timothy 2:19- :). Christ Himself, the only true Foundation, was the grand
	subject of their ministry, and spring of their life. As one with Him
	and His fellow workers, they, too, in a secondary sense, are called
	"foundations" (2 Timothy 2:19- :). The "prophets" are joined with them closely for
	the expression is here not "foundations of the apostles
	and the prophets," but "foundations of the
	apostles and prophets." For the doctrine of both was
	essentially one (1 Peter 1:10;
	1 Peter 1:11; Revelation 19:10).
	The apostles take the precedency (Revelation 19:10- :). Thus he appropriately shows regard to the claims of the
	Jews and Gentiles: "the prophets" representing the old
	Jewish dispensation, "the apostles" the new. The "prophets"
	of the new also are included. BENGEL
	and ALFORD refer the
	meaning solely to these (Ephesians 3:5;
	Ephesians 4:11). These passages imply,
	I think, that the New Testament prophets are not excluded; but the
	apostle's plain reference to Ephesians 4:11- :, "the head stone of the corner," proves that the
	Old Testament prophets are a prominent thought. David is called a
	"prophet" in Acts 2:30.
	Compare also Isaiah 28:16;
	another prophet present to the mind of Paul, which prophecy leans on
	the earlier one of Jacob (Isaiah 28:16- :). The sense of the context, too, suits this: Ye were once
	aliens from the commonwealth of Israel (in the time of her Old
	Testament prophets), but now ye are members of the true Israel,
	built upon the foundation of her New Testament apostles and Old
	Testament prophets. Paul continually identifies his teaching with
	that of Israel's old prophets (Acts 26:22;
	Acts 28:23). The costly
	foundation-stones of the temple (Acts 28:23- :) typified the same truth (compare Acts 28:23- :). The same stone is at once the corner-stone and the
	foundation-stone on which the whole building rests. Paul supposes a
	stone or rock so large and so fashioned as to be both at once;
	supporting the whole as the foundation, and in part rising up at the
	extremities, so as to admit of the side walls meeting in it, and
	being united in it as the corner-stone [ZANCHIUS].
	As the corner-stone, it is conspicuous, as was Christ (Acts 28:23- :), and coming in men's way may be stumbled over, as the Jews
	did at Christ (Matthew 21:42;
	1 Peter 2:7).