16. also in all his epistles—
	Romans 2:4 is very similar to Romans 2:4- :, beginning. The Pauline Epistles were by this time become
	the common property of all the churches. The "all"
	seems to imply they were now completed. The subject of the Lord's
	coming is handled in 1 Thessalonians 4:13;
	1 Thessalonians 5:11; compare 2 Peter 3:10;
	1 Thessalonians 5:2. Still Peter
	distinguishes Paul's Epistle, or Epistles, "TO
	YOU," from "all his (other) Epistles,"
	showing that certain definite churches, or particular classes of
	believers, are meant by "you." 
	in which—Epistles.
	The oldest manuscripts read the feminine relative (hais); not
	as Received Text (hois), "in which things." 
	some things hard to be
	understood—namely, in reference to Christ's coming, for
	example, the statements as to the man of sin and the apostasy, before
	Christ's coming. "Paul seemed thereby to delay Christ's coming
	to a longer period than the other apostles, whence some doubted
	altogether His coming" [BENGEL].
	Though there be some things hard to be understood, there are enough
	besides, plain, easy, and sufficient for perfecting the man of God.
	"There is scarce anything drawn from the obscure places, but the
	same in other places may be found most plain" [AUGUSTINE].
	It is our own prejudice, foolish expectations, and carnal fancies,
	that make Scripture difficult [JEREMY
	TAYLOR]. 
	unlearned—Not those
	wanting human learning are meant, but those lacking the
	learning imparted by the Spirit. The humanly learned have
	been often most deficient in spiritual learning, and have originated
	many heresies. Compare 2 Timothy 2:23,
	a different Greek word, "unlearned," literally,
	"untutored." When religion is studied as a science, nothing
	is more abstruse; when studied in order to know our duty and practice
	it, nothing is easier. 
	unstable—not yet
	established in what they have learned; shaken by every seeming
	difficulty; who, in perplexing texts, instead of waiting until God by
	His Spirit makes them plain in comparing them with other Scriptures,
	hastily adopt distorted views. 
	wrest—strain and twist
	(properly with a hand screw) what is straight in itself (for
	example, 2 Timothy 2:18). 
	other scriptures—Paul's
	Epistles were, therefore, by this time, recognized in the Church, as
	"Scripture": a term never applied in any of the fifty
	places where it occurs, save to the Old and New Testament sacred
	writings. Men in each Church having miraculous discernment of
	spirits would have prevented any uninspired writing from being
	put on a par with the Old Testament word of God; the apostles' lives
	also were providentially prolonged, Paul's and Peter's at least to
	thirty-four years after Christ's resurrection, John's to thirty years
	later, so that fraud in the canon is out of question. The three first
	Gospels and Acts are included in "the other Scriptures,"
	and perhaps all the New Testament books, save John and Revelation,
	written later. 
	unto their own
	destruction—not through Paul's fault (2 Timothy 2:18- :).