Therefore [τοιγαρουν] . An emphatic particle, strongly affirming the facts on which the following exhortation is based. We also are compassed [και ημεις] . According to this the sense would be, those described in ch. 11 were compassed with a cloud of witnesses, and we also are so compassed. Wrong. The we also should be construed with let us run. "Therefore let us also (as they did) run our appointed race with patience." Seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses [τοσουτον εχοντες περικειμενον ημιν νεφος μαρτυρων] . Lit. having so great a cloud of witnesses lying around us. Nefov cloud, N. T. o, means a great mass of cloud covering the entire visible space of the heavens, and therefore without definite form, or a single large mass in which definite outlines are not emphasized or distinguished. It thus differs from nefelh, which is a detached and sharply outlined cloud. Nefov is therefore more appropriate to the author 's image, which is that of a vast encompassing and overhanging mass. The use of cloud for a mass of living beings is familiar in poetry. Thus Homer, a cloud of footmen (Il 23:138) : of Trojans (Il 16:66). Themistocles, addressing the Athenians, says of the host of Xerxes, "we have had the fortune to save both ourselves and Greece by repelling so great a cloud of men" (Hdt. 8 109). Spenser, F. Q. 1 1, 23 "A cloud of cumbrous gnattes doe him molest." Milton, Par 50 1 340 : "A pitchy cloud of locusts." Witnesses [μαρτυρων] does not mean spectators, but those who have born witness to the truth, as those enumerated in ch. 11. Yet the idea of spectators is implied, and is really the principal idea. The writer's picture is that of an arena in which the Christians whom he addresses are contending in a race, while the vast host of the heroes of faith who, after having born witness to the truth, have entered into their heavenly rests watches the contest from the encircling tiers of the arena, compassing and overhanging it like a cloud, filled with lively interest and sympathy, and lending heavenly aid. How striking the contrast of this conception with that of Kaulbach's familiar "Battle of the Huns," in which the slain warriors are depicted rising from the field and renewing the fight in the upper air with aggravated fury. Weight [ογκον] . N. T. o, o LXX Lit. bulk, mass. Often in Class. Sometimes metaphorically of a person, dignity, importance, pretension : of a writer's style, loftiness, majesty, impressiveness. Rend. "encumbrance," according to the figure of the racer who puts away everything which may hinder his running. So the readers are exhorted to lay aside every worldly hindrance or embarrassment to their Christian career. And the sin which doth so easily beset [και την ευπεριστατον αμαρτιαν] . Kai adds to the general encumbrance a specific encumbrance or hindrance. Euperistatov N. T. o, o LXX, o Class. From euj readily, deftly, cleverly, and periistasqai to place itself round. Hence, of a sin which readily or easily encircles and entangles the Christian runner, like a long, loose robe clinging to his limbs. Beset is a good rendering, meaning to surround. In earlier English especially of surrounding crowns, etc., with jewels. So Gower, Conf. Amos 1:12 Amos 1:7. "With golde and riche stones beset." Shakespeare, Two Gent. Ver 5 3 : "The thicket is beset; he cannot 'scape." The sin may be any evil propensity. The sin of unbelief naturally suggests itself here. With patience [δι υπομονης] . Upomonh includes both passive endurance and active persistence. See on 2 Peter 1:6, and James 5:7. For this use of dij with, see on ch. Hebrews 9:11. The race [τον αγωνα] . Instead of a specific word for race [δρομος] , the general term contest is used. For prokeimenon set before, see on ch. Hebrews 6:18.