Following this allusion to Esau, and perhaps suggested by it, is a passage setting forth the privileges of the Christian birthright and of Christian citizenship in contrast with those under the old covenant. The mount that might be touched and that burned with fire [ψηλαφωμενω και κεκαυμενω πυρι] . Orei mount is omitted by the best texts, but should be understood. 241 Yhlafan is rare in N. T. and LXX; fairly frequent in Class. Radically, it is akin to yan, to rub, wipe; hence feeling on the surface, as Genesis 27:12, Genesis 27:21, Genesis 27:22, LXX : a touch which communicates only a superficial effect. It need not imply contact with an object at all, but simply the movement of the hands feeling after something. Hence often of the groping of the blind, as Deuteronomy 28:29; Isaiah 59:10; Job 5:14. Appropriate here as indicating mere superficial contact. The present participle that is being touched, means simply that the mountain was something material and tangible. The A. V. which might be touched, although not literally correct, conveys the true sense. That burned with fire [κεκαυμενω πυρι] . See Exodus 19:18; Deuteronomy 4:11; Deuteronomy 5:4; Deuteronomy 9:15. The participle is passive, set on fire; kindled with fire : not attributive of puri, enkindled fire. Blackness, darkness, tempest [γνοφω, ζοφω, θυελλη] . Gnofov (N. T. o) and zofov (elsewhere only 2 Peter and Jude) belong to the same family. As distinguished from skotov darkness that conceals, as opposed to light, these words signify half - darkness, gloom, nebulousness; as the darkness of evening or the gathering gloom of death. It is a darkness which does not entirely conceal color. Thus dnofov, the earlier and poetic form of gnofov, is used by Homer of water which appears dark against the underlying rock, or is tinged by mire. Gnofov and skotov appear together, Exodus 10:22; Exodus 14:20; Deuteronomy 4:11; Deuteronomy 5:22. Gnofov alone, Exodus 20:21. Zofov only in the later version of Symmachus. See on John 1:5. Quella N. T. o, from quein to boil or foam. It is a brief, violent, sudden, destructive blast, sometimes working upward and carrying objects into the upper air; hence found with ajeirein to lift and ajnarpazein to snatch up (see Hom. Obadiah 1:20 Obadiah 1:63). It may also come from above and dash down to the ground (Hom. Il. 12 253). Sometimes it indicates the mere force of the wind, as ajnemoio quella (HoObadiah 1:0. Obadiah 1:12 409; Il. 6 346).