Acts 9:31.  Then had the churches rest.  In the most ancient MSS. the singular form ‘Church’ is found, and there is a reason for the writer of the ‘Acts’ preferring ‘Church’ to ‘churches.’ Here he is viewing the various congregations scattered through the whole length and breadth of the Holy Land as one body joined together with an external bond of union,  the apostles,  united by an internal bond,  the Holy Ghost,  and Christ the One Head.
	This general picture of the Church embraces most of the time which had elapsed since the conversion of Saul. Various reasons had conduced to this peace which the Church then enjoyed. The conversion and consequent silence of the chief persecutor, Saul, no doubt for a time paralyzed the counsels of the Sanhedrim in their active measures against the followers of Jesus. The Jewish rulers had also of late other and more pressing dangers to their faith to confront. The Proconsul of Syria, Petronius, wished to introduce the statue of the infamous Emperor Caligula into the Temple of Jerusalem, and for a time there was danger of a general revolt against the Roman power. Caligula’s death put an end to the attempt.
	 And were edified.  That is, kept advancing in the inner religious life. Two consequences are represented as resulting from this period of rest and peace enjoyed by the churches of the Holy Land: (1) The spiritual life of the individual members was deepened; (2) the numbers of the several congregations were increased.
	 Walking in the fear of the Lord.  A very common Hebrew expression, denoting a habitual course of conduct regulated as far as possible upon principles likely to find favour and acceptance with God. See Isaiah 2:5: ‘O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord.’
	 And in the comfort of the Holy Ghost. The  exact sense of the Greek word translated by ‘comfort ‘is a little doubtful. Perhaps the best and fullest meaning here would be, ‘the power of consolatory discourse conferred by the Holy Spirit on those who preached.’ During the time of peace and quiet, the number of believers was continually receiving additions; while the spiritual life of the individual members was being deepened, as they lived a life as though ever in the Lord’s presence, their faith being strengthened by the words of Divine comfort which the Holy Ghost kept putting into the minds of their preachers.
	