The leading ideas of the preceding section are echoed in this verse : brethren, of whom Christ made himself the brother : holy, in virtue of the work of the sanctifier. Wherefore [οθεν] . Drawing a conclusion from ch. 2 9 - 18. Holy brethren [αδελφοι αγιοι] . The phrase N. T. o. jAdelfoi brethren, in address, is not found in the Gospels. In Acts mostly andrev aJudelfoi brother men. In Paul, ajd. ajgaphtoi brethren beloved, or ajd. ajgap. kai ejpipoqhtoi brethren beloved and longed for (once, Philippians 4:1), ajd. hjgaphmenoi ujpo tou qeou and tou kuriou brethren beloved of God or of the Lord, and ajd. mou my brethren. In James mostly ajd. mou. In Hebrews, except here, aJudelfoi simply. Holy brethren (see ch. 2 11) are worshippers of God, taking the place of God 's O. T. people, as called and consecrated to ethical and spiritual service according to the Christian ideal. Partakers of a heavenly calling [κλησεως επουρανιου μετοχοι] . Metocoi partakers only in Hebrews except Luke 5:7. See on metescen took part, ch. 2 14. The phrase heavenly calling N. T. o. Comp. thv avw klhsewv the upward calling, Philippians 3:14. The expression points to the lordship of the world to be (ch. 2 5); and the world to be is the abiding world, the place of realities as contrasted with types and shadows. The calling comes from that world and is to that world. See ch. Hebrews 13:14. Consider [κατανοησατε] . 179 Attentively, thoughtfully [κατα] . See on James 1:23. The writer's habit is to use the communicative we or us identifying himself with his readers. The apostle and high priest [τον αποστολον και αρχιερεα] . In calling Jesus apostle, the writer is thinking of Moses as one sent by God to lead Israel to Canaan. Comp. LXX, where ajpostellein to send is often used of Moses. See Exodus 3 - 7. Often of Jesus, as Luke 10:16; John 3:17; John 5:36; John 6:29. Of our profession [της ομολογιας ημων] . Rend. confession for profession. The apostle and high priest whom we confess. Comp. 1 Timothy 6:12.