And Moses. Kai and introduces the further development of the thought of vers. 2, 3 - fidelity, and the corresponding honor. It is not a second proof of the superiority of Christ to Moses. See Numbers 12:7. A servant [θεραπων] . N. T. o. Comp. Revelation 14:3. Often in LXX, mostly as translation of 'eber, servant, slave, bondman. Also, when coupled with the name of a deity, a worshipper, devotee. Sometimes applied to angels or prophets. Of Moses, qerapwn kuriou servant of the Lord, Wisd. 10 16. In Class. and N. T. the word emphasizes the performance of a present service, without reference to the condition of the doer, whether bond or free. An ethical character attaches to it, as to the kindred verb qerapeuein : service of an affectionate, hearty character, performed with care and fidelity. Hence the relation of the qerapwn is of a nobler and freer character than that of the doulov or bondservant. The verb is used of a physician 's tendance of the sick. Xenophon (Mem. 4 3, 9) uses it of the gods taking care of men, and, on the other hand, of men's worshipping the gods (ii. 1. 28). See Eurip. Iph. Taur. 1105; and on heal, Matthew 8:7; Luke 10:15, and on is worshipped, Acts 17:25. For a testimony of those things which were to be spoken [εις μαρτυριον των λαληθησομενων] . jEiv for, with the whole preceding clause. Moses ' faithful service in God 's house was for a testimony, etc. The things which were to be spoken are the revelations afterward to be given in Christ. Others, however, explain of the things which Moses himself was afterward to speak to the people by God 's command, referring to Numbers 12:8. According to this explanation, the fidelity hitherto exhibited by Moses ought to command respect for all that he might say in future. But (1) in the present connection that thought is insignificant. (2) It would be an exaggeration to speak of Moses 's fidelity to God throughout his whole official career as a witness of the things which he was to speak to the people by God 's command. (3) The future participle requires a reference to a time subsequent to Moses 's ministry. The meaning is that Moses, in his entire ministry, was but a testimony to what was to be spoken in the future by another and a greater than he. Comp. Deuteronomy 18:15, explained of Christ in Acts 3:22, Acts 3:23.