Romans 14:0 is designed to settle some difficult and delicate questions that could not but arise between the Jews and Gentiles respecting food and the observance of particular days, rites, etc. The “occasions” of these questions were these: The converts to Christianity were from both Jews and Gentiles. There were many Jews in Rome; and it is probable that no small part of the church was composed of them. The New Testament everywhere shows that they were disposed to bind the Gentile converts to their own customs, and to insist on the observance of the unique laws of Moses; see Acts 15:1-2, etc.; Galatians 2:3-4. The “subjects” on which questions of this kind would be agitated were, circumcision, days of fasting, the distinction of meats, etc. A part of these only are discussed in this chapter. The views of the apostle in regard to “circumcision” had been stated in Rom. 3–4. In this chapter he notices the disputes which would be likely to arise on the following subjects; (2)The distinctions and observances of the days of Jewish fastings, etc., Romans 14:5-6. (3)The laws observed by the Jews in relation to animals as “clean” or “unclean;” Romans 14:14.It is probable that these are mere “specimens” adduced by the apostle to settle “principles” of conduct in regard to the Gentiles, and to show to each party how they ought to act in “all” such questions.The apostle’s design here is to allay all these contentions by producing peace, kindness, charity. This he does by the following considerations, namely:(1) That we have no right to “judge” another man in this case, for he is the servant of God; Romans 14:3-4.(2) That whatever course is taken in these questions, it is done conscientiously, and with a desire to glorify God. In such a case there should be kindness and charity; Romans 14:6, etc.(3) That we must stand at the judgment-seat of Christ, and give an account “there;” and that “we,” therefore, should not usurp the function of judging; Romans 14:10-13.(4) That there is really nothing unclean of itself; Romans 14:14.(5) That religion consisted in more important matters than “such” questions; Romans 14:17-18.(6) That we should follow after the things of peace, etc.; Romans 14:19-23.The principles of this chapter are applicable to all “similar” cases of difference of opinion about rites and ceremonies, and unessential doctrines of religion; and we shall see that if they were honestly applied, they would settle no small part of the controversies in the religious world.