26, 27. Likewise the Spirit also,
	c.—or, "But after the like manner doth the Spirit also help. 
	our infirmities—rather
	(according to the true reading), "our infirmity" not merely
	the one infirmity here specified, but the general weakness of the
	spiritual life in its present state, of which one example is here
	given. 
	for we know not what we
	should pray for as we ought—It is not the proper matter
	of prayer that believers are at so much loss about, for the fullest
	directions are given them on this head: but to ask for the right
	things "as they ought" is the difficulty. This arises
	partly from the dimness of our spiritual vision in the present veiled
	state, while we have to "walk by faith, not by sight" (see
	on  :- and  :-), and the large admixture of the ideas and feelings which
	spring from the fleeting objects of sense that there is in the very
	best views and affections of our renewed nature; partly also from the
	necessary imperfection of all human language as a vehicle for
	expressing the subtle spiritual feelings of the heart. In these
	circumstances, how can it be but that much uncertainty should
	surround all our spiritual exercises, and that in our nearest
	approaches and in the freest outpourings of our hearts to our Father
	in heaven, doubts should spring up within us whether our frame
	of mind in such exercises is altogether befitting and well pleasing
	to God? Nor do these anxieties subside, but rather deepen, with the
	depth and ripeness of our spiritual experience. 
	but the Spirit itself—rather,
	"Himself." (See end of  :-). 
	maketh intercession for us
	with groanings which cannot be uttered—that is, which cannot be
	expressed in articulate language. Sublime and affecting ideas, for
	which we are indebted to this passage alone! "As we struggle to
	express in articulate language the desires of our hearts and find
	that our deepest emotions are the most inexpressible, we 'groan'
	under this felt inability. But not in vain are these groanings. For
	'the Spirit Himself' is in them, giving to the emotions which He
	Himself has kindled the only language of which they are capable; so
	that though on our part they are the fruit of impotence to utter what
	we feel, they are at the same time the intercession of the Spirit
	Himself in our behalf."