29. For—as touching this
	"calling according to his purpose" ( :-). 
	whom he did foreknow he also
	did predestinate—foreordain. In what sense are we to take the
	word "foreknow" here? "Those who He foreknew would
	repent and believe," say Pelagians of every age and every
	hue. But this is to thrust into the text what is contrary to the
	whole spirit, and even letter, of the apostle's teaching (see Romans 9:11;
	2 Timothy 1:9). In Romans 11:2;
	Psalms 1:6, God's "knowledge"
	of His people cannot be restricted to a mere foresight of future
	events, or acquaintance with what is passing here below. Does "whom
	He did foreknow," then, mean "whom He foreordained?"
	Scarcely, because both "foreknowledge" and "foreordination"
	are here mentioned, and the one as the cause of the other. It
	is difficult indeed for our limited minds to distinguish them as
	states of the Divine Mind towards men; especially since in Psalms 1:6- : "the counsel" is put before "the
	foreknowledge of God," while in Psalms 1:6- : "election" is said to be "according to
	the foreknowledge of God." But probably God's foreknowledge of
	His own people means His "peculiar, gracious, complacency in
	them," while His "predestinating" or
	"foreordaining" them signifies His fixed purpose,
	flowing from this, to "save them and call them with an holy
	calling" (2 Timothy 1:9). 
	to be conformed to the image
	of his Son—that is, to be His sons after the pattern, model, or
	image of His Sonship in our nature. 
	that he might be the
	first-born among many brethren—"The First-born," the
	Son by nature; His "many brethren," sons by adoption: He,
	in the Humanity of the Only-begotten of the Father, bearing our sins
	on the accursed tree; they in that of mere men ready to perish by
	reason of sin, but redeemed by His blood from condemnation and wrath,
	and transformed into His likeness: He "the First-born from the
	dead"; they "that sleep in Jesus," to be in due time
	"brought with Him"; "The First-born," now
	"crowned with glory and honor"; His "many brethren,"
	"when He shall appear, to be like Him, for they shall see Him as
	He is."