39. nor any other creature—rather,
	"created thing"—any other thing in the whole created
	universe of God 
	shall be able to separate us,
	c.—"All the terms here are to be taken in their most general
	sense, and need no closer definition. The indefinite expressions are
	meant to denote all that can be thought of, and are only a rhetorical
	paraphrase of the conception of allness" [OLSHAUSEN].
	from the love of God, which
	is in Christ Jesus our Lord—Thus does this wonderful chapter,
	with which the argument of the Epistle properly closes, leave us who
	are "justified by faith" in the arms of everlasting Love,
	whence no hostile power or conceivable event can ever tear us.
	"Behold what manner of love is this?" And "what manner
	of persons ought we to be," who are thus "blessed with all
	spiritual blessings in Christ?" 
	Note, (1) There is a
	glorious consistency between the eternal purposes of God and the free
	agency of men, though the link of connection is beyond human, perhaps
	created, apprehension (Romans 8:28).
	(2) How ennobling is the thought that the complicated movements of
	the divine government of the world are all arranged in expressed
	furtherance of the "good" of God's chosen (Romans 8:28- :)! (3) To whatever conformity to the Son of God in dignity
	and glory, believers are or shall hereafter be raised, it will be the
	joy of everyone of them, as it is most fitting, "that in all
	things He should have the pre-eminence" (Romans 8:28- :), (Romans 8:29). (4) "As
	there is a beautiful harmony and necessary connection between the
	several doctrines of grace, so must there be a like harmony in the
	character of the Christian. He cannot experience the joy and
	confidence flowing from his election without the humility which"
	the consideration of its being gratuitous must produce nor can he
	have the peace of one who is justified without the holiness of one
	who is saved" (Romans 8:29;
	Romans 8:30) [HODGE].
	(5) However difficult it may be for finite minds to comprehend the
	emotions of the Divine Mind, let us never for a moment doubt that in
	"not sparing His own Son, but delivering Him up for us all,"
	God made a real sacrifice of all that was dearest to His heart, and
	that in so doing He meant for ever to assure His people that all
	other things which they need—inasmuch as they are nothing to this
	stupendous gift, and indeed but the necessary sequel of it—will in
	due time be forthcoming (Romans 8:32).
	(6) In return for such a sacrifice on God's part, what can be
	considered too great on ours? (7) If there could be any doubt as to
	the meaning of the all-important word "JUSTIFICATION"
	in this Epistle—whether, as the Church of Rome teaches, and many
	others affirm, it means "infusing righteousness into the
	unholy, so as to make them righteous," or, according to
	Protestant teaching, "absolving, acquitting, or
	pronouncing righteous the guilty" Romans 8:32- : ought to set such doubt entirely at rest. For the apostle's
	question in this verse is, "Who shall bring a charge against
	God's elect?" In other words, "Who shall pronounce"
	or "hold them guilty?" seeing that "God
	justifies" them: showing beyond all doubt, that to
	"justify" was intended to express precisely the opposite of
	"holding guilty"; and consequently (as CALVIN
	triumphantly argues) that it means "to absolve from the
	charge of guilt." (8) If there could be any reasonable doubt
	in what light the death of Christ is to be regarded in this
	Epistle, Romans 8:34 ought to set
	that doubt entirely at rest. For there the apostle's question is, Who
	shall "condemn" God's elect, since "Christ
	died" for them; showing beyond all doubt (as PHILIPPI
	justly argues) that it was the expiatory (character of that
	death which the apostle had in view). (9) What an affecting view of
	the love of Christ does it give us to learn that His greatest
	nearness to God and most powerful interest with Him—as
	"seated on His right hand"—is employed in behalf of His
	people here below (Romans 8:34)!
	(10) "The whole universe, with all that it contains, so far as
	it is good, is the friend and ally of the Christian; and, so far as
	it is evil, is more than a conquered foe" (Romans 8:34- :) [HODGE]. (11)
	Are we who "have tasted that the Lord is gracious," both
	"kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation"
	(1 Peter 1:5), and embraced in the
	arms of Invincible Love? Then surely, while "building
	ourselves up on our most holy faith," and "praying in the
	Holy Ghost," only the more should we feel constrained to "keep
	ourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord
	Jesus Christ unto eternal life" (Judges 1:20;
	Judges 1:21).