3, 4. For what the law could not do,
	c.—a difficult and much controverted verse. But it is clearly, we
	think, the law's inability to free us from the dominion of sin
	that the apostle has in view as has partly appeared already (see on
	 :-), and will more fully appear
	presently. The law could irritate our sinful nature into more
	virulent action, as we have seen in  :-, but it could not secure its own fulfilment. How that is
	accomplished comes now to be shown. 
	in that it was weak through
	the flesh—that is, having to address itself to us through a
	corrupt nature, too strong to be influenced by mere commands and
	threatenings. 
	God, c.—The sentence is
	somewhat imperfect in its structure, which occasions a certain
	obscurity. The meaning is, that whereas the law was powerless
	to secure its own fulfilment for the reason given, God took the
	method now to be described for attaining that end. 
	sending—"having
	sent" 
	his own Son—This and
	similar expressions plainly imply that Christ was God's "OWN
	SON" before He
	was sent—that is, in His own proper Person, and independently of
	His mission and appearance in the flesh (see on  :- and  :-) and if so, He
	not only has the very nature of God, even as a son of his
	father, but is essentially of the Father, though in a sense
	too mysterious for any language of ours properly to define (see on
	the first through fourth chapters). And this peculiar relationship is
	put forward here to enhance the greatness and define the
	nature of the relief provided, as coming from beyond the
	precincts of sinful humanity altogether, yea, immediately from
	the Godhead itself.
in the likeness of sinful
	flesh—literally, "of the flesh of sin"; a very
	remarkable and pregnant expression. He was made in the reality of our
	flesh, but only in the likeness of its sinful condition. He
	took our nature as it is in us, compassed with infirmities, with
	nothing to distinguish Him as man from sinful men, save that He was
	without sin. Nor does this mean that He took our nature with all its
	properties save one; for sin is no property of humanity at all,
	but only the disordered state of our souls, as the fallen family of
	Adam; a disorder affecting, indeed, and overspreading our entire
	nature, but still purely our own.
and for sin—literally,
	"and about sin"; that is, "on the business of sin."
	The expression is purposely a general one, because the design was not
	to speak of Christ's mission to atone for sin, but in virtue
	of that atonement to destroy its dominion and extirpate it
	altogether from believers. We think it wrong, therefore, to
	render the words (as in the Margin) "by a sacrifice for
	sin" (suggested by the language of the Septuagint and
	approved by CALVIN, c.)
	for this sense is too definite, and makes the idea of expiation
	more prominent than it is. 
	condemned sin—"condemned
	it to lose its power over men" [BEZA,
	BENGEL, FRASER,
	MEYER, THOLUCK,
	PHILIPPI, ALFORD].
	In this glorious sense our Lord says of His approaching death ( :-), "Now is the judgment of this world; now shall
	the prince of this world be cast out," and again (see on
	 :-), "When He (the
	Spirit) shall come, He shall convince the world of . . . judgment,
	because the prince of this world is judged," that is,
	condemned to let go his hold of men, who, through the Cross, shall be
	emancipated into the liberty and power to be holy. 
	in the flesh—that is,
	in human nature, henceforth set free from the grasp of sin.