14. offered himself—The
	voluntary nature of the offering gives it especial efficacy. He
	"through the eternal Spirit," that is, His divine Spirit
	(Romans 1:4, in contrast to His
	"flesh," Hebrews 9:3; His
	Godhead, 1 Timothy 3:16; 1 Peter 3:18),
	"His inner personality" [ALFORD],
	which gave a free consent to the act, offered Himself. The animals
	offered had no spirit or will to consent in the act of
	sacrifice; they were offered according to the law; they had a
	life neither enduring, nor of any intrinsic efficacy. But He from
	eternity, with His divine and everlasting Spirit, concurred
	with the Father's will of redemption by Him. His offering began on
	the altar of the cross, and was completed in His entering the holiest
	place with His blood. The eternity and infinitude of His
	divine Spirit (compare Hebrews 7:16)
	gives eternal ("eternal redemption," Hebrews 7:16- :, also compare Hebrews 9:15)
	and infinite merit to His offering, so that not even the infinite
	justice of God has any exception to take against it. It was "through
	His most burning love, flowing from His eternal Spirit," that He
	offered Himself [OECOLAMPADIUS].
	without spot—The animal
	victims had to be without outward blemish; Christ on the cross
	was a victim inwardly and essentially stainless (Hebrews 9:15- :). 
	purge—purify from fear,
	guilt, alienation from Him, and selfishness, the source of dead
	works (Hebrews 9:22; Hebrews 9:23).
	your—The oldest
	manuscripts read "our." The Vulgate, however,
	supports English Version reading. 
	conscience—moral
	religious consciousness.
dead works—All works
	done in the natural state, which is a state of sin, are dead;
	for they come not from living faith in, and love to, "the living
	God" (Hebrews 11:6). As
	contact with a dead body defiled ceremonially (compare the allusion,
	"ashes of an heifer," Hebrews 11:6- :), so dead works defile the inner consciousness spiritually. 
	to serve—so as to
	serve. The ceremonially unclean could not serve God in the
	outward communion of His people; so the unrenewed cannot serve God in
	spiritual communion. Man's works before justification, however
	lifelike they look, are dead, and cannot therefore be accepted before
	the living God. To have offered a dead animal to God would have been
	an insult (compare Malachi 1:8);
	much more for a man not justified by Christ's blood to offer dead
	works. But those purified by Christ's blood in living faith do
	serve (Romans 12:1), and shall more
	fully serve God (Revelation 22:3). 
	living God—therefore
	requiring living spiritual service (Revelation 22:3- :).