28. Christ—Greek, "THE
	Christ"; the representative MAN;
	representing all men, as the first Adam did. 
	once offered—not
	"often," Hebrews 9:25;
	just as "men," of whom He is the representative Head, are
	appointed by God once to die. He did not need to die again and
	again for each individual, or each successive generation of men, for
	He represents all men of every age, and therefore needed to
	die but once for all, so as to exhaust the penalty of death incurred
	by all. He was offered by the Father, His own "eternal Spirit"
	(Hebrews 9:14) concurring; as
	Abraham spared not Isaac, but offered him, the son himself
	unresistingly submitting to the father's will (Hebrews 9:14- :). 
	to bear the sins—referring
	to Isaiah 53:12, "He bare
	the sins of many," namely, on Himself; so "bear"
	means, Leviticus 24:15; Numbers 5:31;
	Numbers 14:34. The Greek is
	literally "to bear up" (Numbers 14:34- :). "Our sins were laid on Him. When, therefore, He was
	lifted up on the cross, He bare up our sins along with Him"
	[BENGEL]. 
	many—not opposed to
	all, but to few. He, the One, was offered for many;
	and that once for all (compare Numbers 14:34- :). 
	look for him—with
	waiting expectation even unto the end (so the Greek). It
	is translated "wait for" in Romans 8:19;
	Romans 8:23; 1 Corinthians 1:7,
	which see. 
	appear—rather, as
	Greek, "be seen." No longer in the alien "form
	of a servant," but in His own proper glory. 
	without sin—apart from,
	separate from, sin. Not bearing the sin of many on Him as at
	His first coming (even then there was no sin in Him). That sin
	has been at His first coming once for all taken away, so as to need
	no repetition of His sin offering of Himself (1 Corinthians 1:7- :). At His second coming He shall have no more to do with sin.
	unto salvation—to bring
	in completed salvation; redeeming then the body which is as yet
	subject to the bondage of corruption. Hence, in 1 Corinthians 1:7- : he says, "we look for THE
	SAVIOUR." Note,
	Christ's prophetical office, as the divine Teacher, was
	especially exercised during His earthly ministry; His priestly
	is now from His first to His second coming; His kingly office
	shall be fully manifested at, and after, His second coming.