16. A general axiomatic truth;
	it is "a testament"; not the testament. The
	testator must die before his testament takes effect ( :-). This is a common meaning of the Greek noun
	diathece. So in Luke 22:29,
	"I appoint (by testamentary disposition; the cognate Greek
	verb diatithemai) unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath
	appointed unto me." The need of death before the testamentary
	appointment takes effect, holds good in Christ's relation as MAN to
	us; Of course not in God's relation to Christ. 
	be—literally, be
	borne": "be involved in the case"; be inferred;
	or else, "be brought forward in court," so as to give
	effect to the will. This sense (testament) of the Greek
	"diathece" here does not exclude its other secondary
	senses in the other passages of the New Testament: (1) a covenant
	between two parties; (2) an arrangement, or disposition, made
	by God alone in relation to us. Thus, Luke 22:29- : may be translated, "Blood of the covenant";
	for a testament does not require blood shedding.
	Compare Exodus 24:8 (covenant),
	which Christ quotes, though it is probable He included in a
	sense "testament" also under the Greek word diathece
	(comprehending both meanings, "covenant" and
	"testament"), as this designation strictly and properly
	applies to the new dispensation, and is rightly applicable to the old
	also, not in itself, but when viewed as typifying the new, which is
	properly a testament. Moses (Exodus 24:8- :) speaks of the same thing as [Christ and] Paul. Moses, by
	the term "covenant," does not mean aught save one
	concerning giving the heavenly inheritance typified by Canaan
	after the death of the Testator, which he represented by the
	sprinkling of blood. And Paul, by the term "testament,"
	does not mean aught save one having conditions attached to it,
	one which is at the same time a covenant [POLI,
	Synopsis]; the conditions are fulfilled by Christ, not by us,
	except that we must believe, but even this God works in His
	people. THOLUCK explains,
	as elsewhere, "covenant . . . covenant . . . mediating
	victim"; the masculine is used of the victim personified,
	and regarded as mediator of the covenant; especially as in the new
	covenant a MAN (Christ)
	took the place of the victim. The covenanting parties used to pass
	between the divided parts of the sacrificed animals; but, without
	reference to this rite, the need of a sacrifice for
	establishing a covenant sufficiently explains this verse. Others,
	also, explaining the Greek as "covenant," consider
	that the death of the sacrificial victim represented in all covenants
	the death of both parties as unalterably bound to the covenant.
	So in the redemption-covenant, the death of Jesus symbolized the
	death of God (?) in the person of the mediating victim, and the death
	of man in the same. But the expression is not "there must be the
	death of both parties making the covenant," but singular,
	"of Him who made (aorist, past time; not 'of Him
	making') the testament." Also, it is "death,"
	not "sacrifice" or "slaying." Plainly, the death
	is supposed to be past (aorist, "made"); and the
	fact of the death is brought (Greek) before court to
	give effect to the will. These requisites of a will, or testament,
	concur here: (1) a testator; (2) heirs; (3) goods; (4) the death of
	the testator; (5) the fact of the death brought forward in
	court. In Matthew 26:28 two other
	requisites appear: witnesses, the disciples; and a seal,
	the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, the sign of His blood
	wherewith the testament is primarily sealed. It is true the heir
	is ordinarily the successor of him who dies and so ceases to
	have the possession. But in this case Christ comes to life again, and
	is Himself (including all that He hath), in the power of His now
	endless life, His people's inheritance; in His being Heir (Matthew 26:28- :), they are heirs.