19. For—confirming the general
	truth, Hebrews 9:16. 
	spoken . . . according to the
	law—strictly adhering to every direction of "the law of
	commandments contained in ordinances" (Hebrews 9:16- :). Compare Exodus 24:3,
	"Moses told the people all the words of the Lord, and all the
	judgments; and all the people answered with one voice,"
	c. 
	the blood of calves—Greek,
	"the calves," namely, those sacrificed by the "young
	men" whom he sent to do so (Exodus 24:3- :). The "peace offerings" there mentioned were "of
	oxen" (Septuagint, "little calves"), and
	the "burnt offerings" were probably (though this is not
	specified), as on the day of atonement, goats. The law in
	Exodus sanctioned formally many sacrificial practices in use by
	tradition, from the primitive revelation long before. 
	with water—prescribed,
	though not in the twenty-fourth chapter of Exodus, yet in other
	purifications for example, of the leper, and the water of separation
	which contained the ashes of the red heifer. 
	scarlet wool, and
	hyssop—ordinarily used for purification. Scarlet or
	crimson, resembling blood: it was thought to be a peculiarly
	deep, fast dye, whence it typified sin (see on Exodus 24:3- :). So Jesus wore a scarlet robe, the emblem of the deep-dyed
	sins He bore on Him, though He had none in Him. Wool
	was used as imbibing and retaining water; the hyssop, as a bushy,
	tufty plant (wrapt round with the scarlet wool), was used for
	sprinkling it. The wool was also a symbol of purity (Exodus 24:3- :). The Hyssopus officinalis grows on walls, with small
	lancet-formed woolly leaves, an inch long, with blue and white
	flowers, and a knotty stalk about a foot high. 
	sprinkled . . . the
	book—namely, out of which he had read "every precept":
	the book of the testament or covenant. This sprinkling of the book is
	not mentioned in the twenty-fourth chapter of Exodus. Hence BENGEL
	translates, "And (having taken) the book itself (so Exodus 24:3- :), he both sprinkled all the people, and (Exodus 24:3- :) moreover sprinkled the tabernacle." But the Greek
	supports English Version. Paul, by inspiration, supplies the
	particular specified here, not in Exodus 24:3- :. The sprinkling of the roll (so the Greek for
	"book") of the covenant, or testament, as well as of the
	people, implies that neither can the law be fulfilled, nor the
	people be purged from their sins, save by the sprinkling of the blood
	of Christ (1 Peter 1:2). Compare 1 Peter 1:2- :, which shows that there is something antitypical to the
	Bible in heaven itself (compare 1 Peter 1:2- :). The Greek, "itself," distinguishes the
	book itself from the "precepts" in it which he "spake."