15. for this cause—Because of
	the all-cleansing power of His blood, this fits Him to be Mediator
	(Hebrews 8:6, ensuring to both
	parties, God and us, the ratification) of the new covenant, which
	secures both forgiveness for the sins not covered by the former
	imperfect covenant or testament, and also an eternal inheritance to
	the called. 
	by means of death—rather,
	as Greek, "death having taken place." At the moment
	that His death took place, the necessary effect is, "the called
	receive the (fulfilment of the) promise" (so Hebrews 8:6- : uses "promise"; Hebrews 6:15;
	Acts 1:4); that moment divides the
	Old from the New Testament. The "called" are the elect
	"heirs," "partakers of the heavenly calling" (Acts 1:4- :). 
	redemption of . . .
	transgressions . . . under . . . first testament—the
	transgressions of all men from Adam to Christ, first against
	the primitive revelation, then against the revelations to the
	patriarchs, then against the law given to Israel, the representative
	people of the world. The "first testament" thus includes
	the whole period from Adam to Christ, and not merely that of the
	covenant with Israel, which was a concentrated representation of the
	covenant made with (or the first testament given to)
	mankind by sacrifice, down from the fall to redemption. Before
	the inheritance by the New Testament (for here the idea of the
	"INHERITANCE,"
	following as the result of Christ's "death," being
	introduced, requires the Greek to be translated "testament,"
	as it was before covenant) could come in, there must be
	redemption of (that is, deliverance from the penalties
	incurred by) the transgressions committed under the first
	testament, for the propitiatory sacrifices under the first
	testament reached only as far as removing outward ceremonial
	defilement. But in order to obtain the inheritance which is a
	reality, there must be a real propitiation, since God could not enter
	into covenant relation with us so long as past sins were unexpiated;
	Romans 3:24; Romans 3:25,
	"a propitiation . . . His righteousness for the remission of
	sins that are past." 
	might—Greek,
	"may receive," which previously they could not
	(Hebrews 11:39; Hebrews 11:40).
	the promise—to Abraham.