26. then—in that case. 
	must . . . have
	suffered—rather as Greek, "It would have been
	necessary for Him often to suffer." In order to "offer"
	(Hebrews 9:25), or present Himself
	often before God in the heavenly holiest place, like the legal high
	priests making fresh renewals of this high priestly function. He
	would have had, and would have often to suffer. His oblation
	of Himself before God was once for all (that is, the bringing in of
	His blood into the heavenly Holy of Holies), and therefore the
	preliminary suffering was once for all. 
	since the foundation of the
	world—The continued sins of men, from their first creation,
	would entail a continual suffering on earth, and consequent oblation
	of His blood in the heavenly holiest place, since the foundation
	of the world, if the one oblation "in the fulness of time"
	were not sufficient. PHILO
	[The Creation of the World, p. 637], shows that the high
	priest of the Hebrews offered sacrifices for the whole human race.
	"If there had been greater efficacy in the repetition of the
	oblation, Christ necessarily would not have been so long promised,
	but would have been sent immediately after the foundation of the
	world to suffer, and offer Himself at successive periods"
	[GROTIUS]. 
	now—as the case is, 
	once—for all; without
	need of renewal. Rome's fiction of an UNBLOODY
	sacrifice in the mass, contradicts her assertion that the blood
	of Christ is present in the wine; and also confutes her assertion
	that the mass is propitiatory; for, if unbloody, it cannot be
	propitiatory; for without shedding of blood there is no
	remission (Hebrews 9:22).
	Moreover, the expression "once" for all here, and in
	Hebrews 9:28; Hebrews 10:10;
	Hebrews 10:12, proves the falsity of
	her view that there is a continually repeated offering of Christ in
	the Eucharist or mass. The offering of Christ was a thing once done
	that it might be thought of for ever (compare Note, see on Hebrews 10:12- :). 
	in the end of the
	world—Greek, "at the consummation of the ages";
	the winding up of all the previous ages from the foundation of the
	world; to be followed by a new age (Hebrews 1:1;
	Hebrews 1:2). The last age, beyond
	which no further age is to be expected before Christ's speedy second
	coming, which is the complement of the first coming; literally, "the
	ends of the ages"; Matthew 28:20
	is literally, "the consummation of the age," or
	world (singular; not as here, plural, ages). Compare
	"the fulness of times," Matthew 28:20- :. 
	appeared—Greek,
	"been manifested" on earth (1 Timothy 3:16;
	1 Peter 1:20). English Version
	has confounded three distinct Greek verbs, by translating all
	alike, Hebrews 9:24; Hebrews 9:26;
	Hebrews 9:28, "appear."
	But, in Hebrews 9:24, it is "to
	present Himself," namely, before God in the heavenly
	sanctuary; in Hebrews 9:26,
	"been manifested" on earth: in Hebrews 9:26- :, "shall be seen" by all, and especially believers.
	put away—abolish; doing
	away sin's power as well by delivering men from its guilt and
	penalty, so that it should be powerless to condemn men, as also from
	its yoke, so that they shall at last sin no more. 
	sin—singular number;
	all the sins of men of every age are regarded as one mass laid
	on Christ. He hath not only droned for all actual sins, but
	destroyed sin itself. Hebrews 9:26- :, "Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin
	(not merely the sins: singular, not plural) of the world."
	by the sacrifice of
	himself—Greek, "by (through) His own
	sacrifice"; not by "blood of others" (Hebrews 9:26- :). ALFORD loses
	this contrast in translating, "by His sacrifice."