5. over it—over "the ark
	of the covenant." 
	cherubim—representing
	the ruling powers by which God acts in the moral and natural world.
	(See on  :-;  :-). Hence sometimes they answer to the ministering angels; but
	mostly to the elect redeemed, by whom God shall hereafter rule the
	world and set forth His manifold wisdom: redeemed humanity, combining
	in, and with itself, the highest forms of subordinate creaturely
	life; not angels. They stand on the mercy seat, and on that ground
	become the habitation of God, from which His glory is to shine upon
	the world. They expressly say,  :-, "Thou hast redeemed us." They are there
	distinguished from the angels, and associated with the elders.
	They were of one piece with the mercy seat, even as the Church is one
	with Christ: their sole standing is on the blood-sprinkled mercy
	seat; they gaze down at it as the redeemed shall for ever; they are
	"the habitation of God through the Spirit." 
	of glory—The cherubim
	were bearers of the divine glory, whence, perhaps, they
	derive their name. The Shekinah, or cloud of glory, in which
	Jehovah appeared between the cherubim over the mercy seat, the lid of
	the ark, is doubtless the reference. THOLUCK
	thinks the twelve loaves of the showbread represent the twelve tribes
	of the nation, presented as a community before God consecrated
	to Him (just as in the Lord's Supper believers, the spiritual Israel,
	all partaking of the one bread, and becoming one bread and one body,
	present themselves before the Lord as consecrated to Him, 1 Corinthians 10:16;
	1 Corinthians 10:17); the oil and light,
	the pure knowledge of the Lord, in which the covenant people are to
	shine (the seven (lights), implying perfection); the ark of
	the covenant, the symbol of God's kingdom in the old covenant, and
	representing God dwelling among His own; the ten commandments in the
	ark, the law as the basis of union between God and man; the mercy
	seat covering the law and sprinkled with the blood of atonement for
	the collective sin of the people, God's mercy [in Christ] stronger
	than the law; the cherubim, the personified [redeemed] creation,
	looking down on the mercy seat, where God's mercy, and God's law, are
	set forth as the basis of creation. 
	mercy seat—Greek,
	"the propitiatory": the golden cover of the ark, on which
	was sprinkled the blood of the propitiatory sacrifice on the day of
	atonement; the footstool of Jehovah, the meeting place of Him and His
	people. 
	we cannot—conveniently:
	besides what met the eye in the sanctuary, there were spiritual
	realities symbolized which it would take too long to discuss in
	detail, our chief subject at present being the priesthood and
	the sacrifices. "Which" refers not merely to the
	cherubim, but to all the contents of the sanctuary enumerated
	in Hebrews 9:2-5.