4. golden censer—The Greek,
	must not be translated "altar of incense," for it
	was not in "the holiest" place "after the second
	veil," but in "the holy place"; but as in 2 Chronicles 26:19;
	Ezekiel 8:11, "censer": so
	Vulgate and Syriac. This GOLDEN
	censer was only used on the day of atonement (other kinds of censers
	on other days), and is therefore associated with the holiest
	place, as being taken into it on that anniversary by the high
	priest. The expression "which had," does not mean that the
	golden censer was deposited there, for in that case the high priest
	would have had to go in and bring it out before burning incense in
	it; but that the golden censer was one of the articles belonging
	to, and used for, the yearly service in the holiest place. He
	virtually supposes (without specifying) the existence of the "altar
	of incense" in the anterior holy place, by mentioning the
	golden censer filled with incense from it: the incense answers to
	the prayers of the saints; and the altar though outside the
	holiest place, is connected with it (standing close by the second
	veil, directly before the ark of the covenant), even as we find
	an antitypical altar in heaven. The rending of the veil by Christ has
	brought the antitypes to the altar, candlestick, and showbread of the
	anterior holy place into the holiest place, heaven. In Ezekiel 8:11- :, Hebrew, "the altar" is said to
	belong to the oracle, or holiest place (compare Ezekiel 8:11- :). 
	ark—of shittim wood,
	that is, acacia. Not in the second temple, but in its stead was a
	stone basement (called "the stone of foundation"), three
	fingers high. 
	pot—"golden,"
	added in the Septuagint, and sanctioned by Paul. 
	manna—an omer, each
	man's daily portion. In 1 Kings 8:9;
	2 Chronicles 5:10, it is said there was
	nothing in the ark of Solomon's temple save the two stone tables of
	the law put in by Moses. But the expression that there was nothing
	THEN therein save the two
	tables, leaves the inference to be drawn that formerly there were the
	other things mentioned by the Rabbis and by Paul here, the pot of
	manna (the memorial of God's providential care of Israel) and the rod
	of Aaron, the memorial of the lawful priesthood (Numbers 17:3;
	Numbers 17:5; Numbers 17:7;
	Numbers 17:10). The expressions
	"before the Lord" (Numbers 17:10- :), and "before the testimony" (Numbers 17:10- :) thus mean, "IN
	the ark." "In," however, may be used here (as the
	corresponding Hebrew word) as to things attached to the
	ark as appendages, as the book of the law was put "in the
	side of the ark," and so the golden jewels offered by the
	Philistines (1 Samuel 6:8). 
	tables of the covenant—
	(Deuteronomy 9:9; Deuteronomy 10:2).