Ephesians 4:1.  I exhort you therefore. The emphasis in the original rests on ‘exhort,’ as indicated in the order given above. The word means first to call hither (corresponding with ‘calling’ and ‘called’); then, to address, either for exhortation or comfort; it should not be rendered ‘beseech.’ ‘Therefore’ may refer to the whole preceding part, but as summed up in the doxology(chap. Ephesians 3:20-21) a more particular reference maybe found in the prayer (chap. Ephesians 3:14-19), which suggests the greatness of Christian privilege. Still this prayer in turn springs from chaps. 1, 2
	 I the prisoner in the Lord. The repetition of ‘I’ in English brings out the emphasis of the original. ‘In the Lord’ is not = ‘of Christ Jesus’ (chap. Ephesians 3:1), nor is ‘in’ = ‘through’ or ‘with,’ but denotes the sphere or element of his captivity, giving prominence to his fellowship with Christ and to his devotion to His cause; in chap. Ephesians 3:1 the reference is to Christ as the author of his captivity. The phrase is apt in this connection: his joyous wearing of his bonds enforces his exhortation, giving it the tone of Christian experience more than of Apostolic dignity.
	 That ye walk worthy,  etc. This he would have them do, live in a manner worthy of their privilege. ‘Worthy’ is an adverb, not an adjective.
	 Of the calling wherewith ye were called.  ‘Calling’ corresponds in sound with ‘called.’ It is God who called them, and that in the past (‘were’); ‘calling’ is only another way of expressing the fact mat they had been called, which is the motive presented. We are not to walk worthy in order to receive the call, as legalism suggests. When Christians ignore the privileges resulting from God’s love in Christ, summed up in the Apostle’s doctrine, and assumed in his ‘therefore,’ they have ceased to be in earnest about the worthy walk. For the true Christian walk is not obedience to rule, but the expression of loyal and loving allegiance to One, who has done for us what awakens our gratitude and exalts it into personal devotion to Him for what He is.
	