Ephesians 4:12. The relation of the clauses of this verse has been much discussed. All three cannot be parallel (as in E.V.), since the preposition in the first differs from that in the second and third. There are two leading views: (1.) The second depends on the first, and the third on the second, with this sense: ‘For the perfecting of the saints, unto all that variety of service, essential unto the building up of the body of Christ’ The main objection is that the Apostle is speaking of those who hold official positions, not of all the saints, while this view lays stress on the service of the latter. (2.) All the clauses depend on ‘gave,’ but the first expresses the more remote, and the second and third (which are parallel) the more immediate, aim of the giving. ‘He gave some, etc., to fulfil the work of ministration, and to build up the body of Christ; His purpose being to perfect the saints,’ This accounts for the difference of prepositions, avoids some minor difficulties, and gives a sense suited to the context. That the ultimate end should be placed first is strange, but is rendered all the more probable by the fact that Ephesians 4:13 presents a result which is more remote than that described in Ephesians 4:14-15.
	 For the perfecting of the saints. ‘For,’ lit,’ to’ or ‘toward,’ marking the aim (see above). ‘Perfecting’ occurs only here, and refers to moral completeness, not to the completeness of the number of the elect, nor to their becoming one body. The view which makes the next clause dependent on this gives this the special sense of complete preparation for service on the part of all the saints.
	 Unto the work of ministration. ‘Ministry’ is too technical, although the ‘ministration’ seems to refer to ‘spiritual service of an official nature’ (Meyer), already suggested in Ephesians 4:11. To apply it to the office of a deacon is unwarranted. If this clause depends on the preceding the reference is to all Christian ministration.
	 Unto the building up of the body of Christ. This clause is parallel to the preceding, although it serves to define the nature of the ‘work,’ The service is not merely philanthropic ministration; it has in view the growth and strengthening of the ‘one body.’ Whatever view be taken of the connection of thought, it is true that all Christian service should contribute to the furtherance of this end.
	