Ephesians 4:14.  In order that.  While this verse is grammatically dependent on Ephesians 4:13, it points to a purpose to be fulfilled during the attainment of the goal set up in that verse, in other words, as in Ephesians 4:12, the most remote end is placed before the more immediate one.
	 We  be no longer children;  immature, small, feeble, imperfect
	 Tossed as waves;  like the waves, ‘fluctuating’ (Vulgate); others prefer ‘tossed to and fro,’ as a deserted ship. Excitable and unsteady, as children are.
	 Carried about with every wind  of teaching,  not, ‘doctrine,’ since active agency is suggested. The figure must be understood in accordance with what precedes. The varying wind carries about the waves, or the ship deserted is at the mercy of the waves and wind. Those immature run after every new teacher; having little knowledge or stability, excitable, dependent on their surroundings, they fall a ready prey to the various teachers of error. It is as true today as when Paul wrote, perhaps is even more obvious, since the range of erroneous opinions through which such successively pass is now so much wider.
	 In the sleight of men.  ‘In’ denotes’ the evil atmosphere, as it were, in which the varying currents of doctrine exist and exert their force’ (Ellicott). The word ‘sleight’ is significantly taken from dice-playing. ‘Men,’ with their variety of teaching and trickery, are substituted for Christ the true guide.
	 In craftiness tending to the system of  error,  or, ‘deceit’ This paraphrase is necessary to bring out the meaning. ‘In craftiness’ answers to ‘in the sleight,’ but implies more of conscious malice. This craftiness has as its goal, a systematic method, in the bad sense, a machination, stratagem. ‘Error’ is that which plans or machinates; the idea of ‘deceit ‘is included, but the term is here used abstractly, and ‘error’ is perhaps preferable. Back of all this ‘system’ is Satan himself. In every age the scheme best adapted to lure away immature Christians comes into the foreground. Those most accurately described in this verse too often deem themselves far in advance in faith and knowledge. When the ‘pastors and teachers’ are themselves ‘children,’ the Church has most to fear.
	