A natural body [σωμα ψυχικον] . See on ch. 1 Corinthians 2:14. The word yucikon natural occurs only twice outside this epistle; James 3:15; Jude 1 Corinthians 15:19The expression natural body signifies an organism animated by a yuch soul (see on Romans 11:4); that phase of the immaterial principle in man which is more nearly allied to the sarx flesh, and which characterizes the man as a mortal creature; while pneuma spirit is that phase which looks Godward, and characterizes him as related to God. "It is a brief designation for the whole compass of the non - corporeal side of the earthly man" (Wendt). "In the earthly body the yuch soul, not the pneuma spirit is that which conditions its constitution and its qualities, so that it is framed as the organ of the yuch. In the resurrection - body the pneuma spirit, for whose life - activity it is the adequate organ, conditions its nature" (Meyer). Compare Plato : "The soul has the care of inanimate being everywhere, and traverses the whole heaven in divers forms appearing; when perfect and fully winged she soars upward, and is the ruler of the universe; while the imperfect soul loses her feathers, and drooping in her flight, at last settles on the solid ground - there, finding a home, she receives an earthly frame which appears to be self - moved, but is really moved by her power; and this composition of soul and body is called a living and mortal creature. For immortal no such union can be reasonably believed to be; although fancy, not having seen nor surely known the nature of God, may imagine an immortal creature having a body, and having also a soul which are united throughout all time" (" Phaedrus, " 246). Spiritual body [σωμα πνευματικον] . A body in which a divine pneuma spirit supersedes the yuch soul, so that the resurrection - body is the fitting organ for its indwelling and work, and so is properly characterized as a spiritual body. "When, glorious and sanctified, our flesh Is reassumed, 132 then shall our persons be More pleasing by their being all complete; For will increase whate'er bestows on us Of light gratuitous the Good Supreme, Light which enables us to look on Him; Therefore the vision must perforce increase, Increase the ardor which from that is kindled, Increase the radiance from which this proceeds. But even as a coal that sends forth flame, And by its vivid whiteness overpowers it So that its own appearance it maintains, Thus the effulgence that surrounds us now Shall be o'erpowered in aspect by the flesh, Which still to - day the earth doth cover up; Nor can so great a splendor weary us, For strong will be the organs of the body To everything which hath the power to please us." " Paradiso, " 14, 43 - 60. There is. The best texts insert if. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. The existence of the one forms a logical presumption for the existence of the other.