And there were set six water pots of stone,.... To distinguish them from other vessels made of different matter: for the Jews had"vessels made of dust, and the dung of beasts, כלי אבנים, "vessels of stone", vessels of earth, vessels made of shells, vessels of nitre, vessels made of the bones and skins of fishes t.''And as these vessels were very likely for washing of hands, such were used for that purpose: their rule is u,"they may put water for the hands in all sorts of vessels; in vessels of dung, in stone vessels, and in vessels of earth.''At a wedding were set vessels of various sizes to wash hands and feet in; there was one vessel called משיכלא, which the gloss says was a large pitcher, or basin, out of which the whole company washed their hands and their feet; and there was another called משיכלתא, which was a lesser and beautiful basin, which was set alone for the more honourable persons, as for the bride, and for any gentlewoman w; and such might be these six stone jars, or pots:after the manner of the purifying of the Jews; or "for the purifying either Jews", as the Syriac, Arabic, and Persic versions render it; that is, for the washing of them, their hands and feet, and their vessels, pots, and cups, according to the traditions of the elders; see Mark 7:2;containing two or three firkins apiece. The Ethiopic version reads, "some held two measures, and some three"; how large the "metreta", or "measure" was, which we render a "firkin", is not certain; it is most likely it answered to the "Hebrew bath", which was a common measure of liquids with the Jews, and held four gallons and a half, or more; Mark 7:2- :; so that such of these vessels, that held two of these measures, contained nine gallons, and such as held three of them, thirteen gallons and a half; and six of these contained a large quantity of wine, one with another: and which makes the following miracle the greater; and shows the liberality of Christ the more, in providing for the following days of the feast, for a marriage was kept seven days x; and for the family, some time after it was over.t Misn. Celim, c. 10. sect. 1. & Maimon. & Bartenora in ib. u Misn. Yadaim, c. 1. sect. 2. w Gloss in T. Bab. Sabbat, fol. 77. 2. x Maimon. Hilchot Ishot, c. 10. sect. 12, 13.