44. Ye are of your father the
	devil—"This is one of the most decisive testimonies to the
	objective (outward) personality of the devil. It is
	quite impossible to suppose an accommodation to Jewish views, or a
	metaphorical form of speech, in so solemn an assertion as this"
	[ALFORD]. 
	the lusts of your father—his
	impure, malignant, ungodly propensities, inclinations, desires. 
	ye will do—are willing
	to do; not of any blind necessity of nature, but of pure
	natural inclination.
He was a murderer from the
	beginning—The reference is not to Cain (as LOCKE,
	DE WETTE,
	ALFORD, c.), but to Adam
	[GROTIUS, CALVIN,
	MEYER, LUTHARDT,
	&c.]. The death of the human race, in its widest sense, is
	ascribed to the murderous seducer of our race. 
	and abode not in the
	truth—As, strictly speaking, the word means "abideth,"
	it has been denied that the fall of Satan from a former holy
	state is here expressed [LOCKE,
	&c.], and some superior interpreters think it only implied
	[OLSHAUSEN, &c.]. But
	though the form of the thought is present—not past—this is
	to express the important idea, that his whole character and activity
	are just a continual aberration from his own original truth or
	rectitude and thus his fall is not only the implied basis
	of the thought, but part of the statement itself, properly
	interpreted and brought out. 
	no truth in him—void of
	all that holy, transparent rectitude which, as His creature, he
	originally possessed. 
	When he speaketh a lie, he
	speaketh of his own—perhaps his own resources, treasures ( :-) [ALFORD]. (The
	word is plural). It means that he has no temptation to it from
	without; it is purely self-begotten, springing from a
	nature which is nothing but obliquity. 
	the father of it—that
	is, of lying: all the falsehood in the world owes its existence to
	him. What a verse is this! It holds up the devil (1) as the murderer
	of the human race; but as this is meant here in the more profound
	sense of spiritual death, it holds him up, (2) as the
	spiritual parent of this fallen human family, communicating to his
	offspring his own evil passions and universal obliquity, and
	stimulating these into active exercise. But as there is "a
	stronger than he," who comes upon him and overcomes him (Luke 11:21;
	Luke 11:22), it is only such as
	"love the darkness," who are addressed as children of the
	devil (Matthew 13:38; 1 John 3:8-10).