Verse 35. Cast not away therefore your confidence — Την παρῥησιαν ὑμων· Your liberty of access to God; your title and right to approach his throne; your birthright as his sons and daughters; and the clear evidence you have of his favour, which, if you be not steady and faithful, you must lose. Do not throw it away, μη αποβαλητε. neither men nor devils can take it from you, and God will never deprive you of it if you continue faithful. There is a reference here to cowardly soldiers, who throw away their shields, and run away from the battle. This is your shield, your faith in Christ, which gives you the knowledge of salvation; keep it, and it will keep you.The Lacedemonian women, when they presented the shields to their sons going to battle, were accustomed to say: Η ταν, η επι τας· "Either bring this back, or be brought back upon it;" alluding to the custom of bringing back a slain soldier on his own shield, a proof that he had preserved it to the last, and had been faithful to his country. They were accustomed also to excite their courage by delivering to them their fathers' shields with the following short address. Ταυτην ὁ πατηρ σοι αει εσωζε· και συ ουν ταυταν σωζε, η μη εσο· "This shield thy father always preserved; do thou preserve it also, or perish;" Lacaenarum Apophthegmata, PLUT. OPERA, a Wittenbach, vol. i. p. 682. Thus spake the Lacedemonian mothers to their sons; and what say the oracles of God to us? Μη αποβαλητε την παρῥησιαν ὑμων· Cast not away your confession of faith. This is your shield; keep it, and it will ever be your sure defence; for by it you will quench every fiery dart of the wicked one. The Church of Christ speaks this to all her sons, and especially to those employed in the work of the ministry. Of this shield, of this glorious system of salvation by Jesus Christ, illustrated and defended in this work, I say to each of my children: Ταυτην ὁ πατηρ σοι αει εσωζε· και συ ουν ταυταν σωζε, η μη εσο· This faith, thy father, by the grace of God, hath always kept; keep thou it also, or thou must expect to perish! May this be received both as a warning and encouragement!Great recompense of reward. — No less than God's continual approbation; the peace that passeth all understanding ruling the heart here; and the glories of heaven as an eternal portion. Conscientiously keep the shield, and all these shall be thine. This will be thy reward; but remember that it is the mercy of God that gives it.