Verse Matthew 6:13. And lead us not into temptation — That is, bring us not in to sore trial. πειρασμον, which may be here rendered sore trial, comes from πειρω, to pierce through, as with a spear, or spit, used so by some of the best Greek writers. Several of the primitive fathers understood it something in this way; and have therefore added quam ferre non possimus, "which we cannot bear." The word not only implies violent assaults from Satan, but also sorely afflictive circumstances, none of which we have, as yet, grace or fortitude sufficient to bear. Bring us not in, or lead us not in. This is a mere Hebraism: God is said to do a thing which he only permits or suffers to be done.The process of temptation is often as follows:1st. A simple evil thought.2ndly. A strong imagination, or impression made on the imagination, by the thing to which we are tempted.3dly. Delight in viewing it.4thly. Consent of the will to perform it. Thus lust is conceived, sin is finished, and death brought forth. James 1:15.See also on Matthew 4:1. A man may be tempted without entering into the temptation: entering into it implies giving way, closing in with, and embracing it.But deliver us from evil — απο του πονηρου, from the wicked one. Satan is expressly called οπονηρος, the wicked one. Matthew 13:19; Matthew 13:38, compare with Mark 4:15; Luke 8:12. This epithet of Satan comes from πονος, labour, sorrow, misery, because of the drudgery which is found in the way of sin, the sorrow that accompanies the commission of it, and the misery which is entailed upon it, and in which it ends.It is said in the MISHNA, Tit. Beracoth, that Rabbi Judah was wont to pray thus: "Let it be thy good pleasure to deliver us from impudent men, and from impudence: from an evil man and an evil chance; from an evil affection, an evil companion, and an evil neighbour: from Satan the destroyer, from a hard judgment, and a hard adversary." See Lightfoot.Deliver us — ρυσαι ημας - a very expressive word-break our chains, and loose our bands-snatch, pluck us from the evil, and its calamitous issue.For thine is the kingdom, c. — The whole of this doxology is rejected by Wetstein, Griesbach, and the most eminent critics. The authorities on which it is rejected may be seen in Griesbach and, Wetstein, particularly in the second edition of Griesbach's Testament, who is fully of opinion that it never made a part of the sacred text. It is variously written in several MSS., and omitted by most of the fathers, both Greek and Latin. As the doxology is at least very ancient, and was in use among the Jews, as well as all the other petitions of this excellent prayer, it should not, in my opinion, be left out of the text, merely because some MSS. have omitted it, and it has been variously written in others. See various forms of this doxology, taken from the ancient Jewish writers, in Lightfoot and Schoettgen.By the kingdom, we may understand that mentioned Matthew 6:10, and explained Matthew 3:2.By power, that energy by which the kingdom is governed and maintained.By glory, the honour that shall redound to God in consequence of the maintenance of the kingdom of grace, in the salvation of men.For ever and ever. — εις τους αιωνας, to the for evers. Well expressed by our common translation - ever in our ancient use of the word taking in the whole duration of time the second ever, the whole of eternity. May thy name have the glory both in this world, and in that which is to come! The original word αιων comes from αει always, and ων being, or existence. This is Aristotle's definition of it. Genesis 21:33. There is no word in any language which more forcibly points out the grand characteristic of eternity-that which always exists. It is often used to signify a limited time, the end of which is not known; but this use of it is only an accommodated one; and it is the grammatical and proper sense of it which must be resorted to in any controversy concerning the word. We sometimes use the phrase for evermore: i.e. for ever and more, which signifies the whole of time, and the more or interminable duration beyond it. Matthew 25:46.Amen. — This word is Hebrew, אמן, and signifies faithful or true. Some suppose the word is formed from the initial letters of אדוני מלך נאם adoni melech neetnan, My Lord, the faithful King. The word itself implies a confident resting of the soul in God, with the fullest assurance that all these petitions shall be fulfilled to every one who prays according to the directions given before by our blessed Lord.The very learned Mr. Gregory has shown that our Lord collected this prayer out of the Jewish Euchologies, and gives us the whole form as follows: -"Our Father who art in heaven, be gracious unto us! O Lord our God, hallowed be thy name, and let the remembrance of Thee be glorified in heaven above, and in the earth here below! Let thy kingdom reign over us now, and for ever! The holy men of old said, remit and forgive unto all men whatsoever they have done against me! And lead us not into the hands of temptation, but deliver us from the evil thing! For thine is the kingdom, and thou shalt reign in glory for ever and for evermore." Gregory's Works, 4to. 1671, p. 162.See this proved at large in the collections of Lightfoot and Schoettgenius,