12. without Christ—Greek,
	"separate from Christ"; having no part in Him; far
	from Him. A different Greek word (aneu) would be
	required to express, "Christ was not present with you"
	[TITTMANN]. 
	aliens—Greek,
	"alienated from," not merely "separated from."
	The Israelites were cut off from the commonwealth of God, but it was
	as being self-righteous, indolent, and unworthy, not as aliens
	and strangers [CHRYSOSTOM].
	The expression, "alienated from," takes it for granted that
	the Gentiles, before they had apostatized from the primitive truth,
	had been sharers in light and life (compare Ephesians 4:18;
	Ephesians 4:23). The hope of redemption
	through the Messiah, on their subsequent apostasy, was embodied into
	a definite "commonwealth" or polity, namely, that
	"of Israel," from which the Gentiles were alienated.
	Contrast Ephesians 2:13; Ephesians 3:6;
	Ephesians 4:4; Ephesians 4:5;
	Psalms 147:20. 
	covenants of promise—rather,
	". . . of the promise," namely, "to thee and
	thy seed will I give this land" (Romans 9:4;
	Galatians 3:16). The plural implies the
	several renewals of the covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and
	with the whole people at Sinai [ALFORD].
	"The promise" is singular, to signify that the covenant, in
	reality, and substantially, is one and the same at all times, but
	only different in its accidents and external circumstances (compare
	Hebrews 1:1, "at sundry times
	and in divers manners"). 
	having no . . . hope—beyond
	this life (1 Corinthians 15:19). The
	CONJECTURES of heathen
	philosophers as to a future life were at best vague and utterly
	unsatisfactory. They had no divine "promise," and therefore
	no sure ground of "hope." Epicurus and Aristotle did not
	believe in it at all. The Platonists believed the soul passed through
	perpetual changes, now happy, and then again miserable; the Stoics,
	that it existed no longer than till the time of the general burning
	up of all things. 
	without God—Greek,
	"atheists," that is, they had not "God" in the
	sense we use the word, the Eternal Being who made and governs all
	things (compare Acts 14:15,
	"Turn from these vanities unto the living God who made
	heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things therein"),
	whereas the Jews had distinct ideas of God and immortality. Compare
	also Galatians 4:8, "Ye knew not
	God . . . ye did service unto them which are no gods" (Galatians 4:8- :). So also pantheists are atheists, for an impersonal God is
	NO GOD, and an ideal
	immortality no immortality [THOLUCK].
	in the world—in
	contrast to belonging to "the commonwealth of Israel."
	Having their portion and their all in this godless vain world (Galatians 4:8- :), from which Christ delivers His people (John 15:19;
	John 17:14; Galatians 1:4).