3. also we—that is, we
	also. Paul here joins himself in the same category with them,
	passing from the second person (Ephesians 2:1;
	Ephesians 2:2) to the first person
	here. 
	all—Jews and Gentiles. 
	our conversation—"our
	way of life" (2 Corinthians 1:12;
	1 Peter 1:18). This expression
	implies an outwardly more decorous course, than the open
	"walk" in gross sins on the part of the majority of
	Ephesians in times past, the Gentile portion of whom may be specially
	referred to in Ephesians 2:2. Paul and
	his Jewish countrymen, though outwardly more seemly than the Gentiles
	(Acts 26:4; Acts 26:5;
	Acts 26:18), had been essentially
	like them in living to the unrenewed flesh, without the Spirit of
	God. 
	fulfilling—Greek,
	doing. 
	mind—Greek, "our
	thoughts." Mental suggestions and purposes (independent of God),
	as distinguished from the blind impulses of "the flesh." 
	and were by nature—He
	intentionally breaks off the construction, substituting "and we
	were" for "and being," to mark emphatically his and
	their past state by nature, as contrasted with their present
	state by grace. Not merely is it, we had our way of life fulfilling
	our fleshly desires, and so being children of wrath; but we
	were by nature originally "children of wrath," and so
	consequently had our way of life fulfilling our fleshly desires.
	"Nature," in Greek, implies that which has grown
	in us as the peculiarity of our being, growing with our growth, and
	strengthening with our strength, as distinguished from that which has
	been wrought on us by mere external influences: what is inherent, not
	acquired (Job 14:4; Psalms 51:5).
	An incidental proof of the doctrine of original sin. 
	children of wrath—not
	merely "sons," as in the Greek, "sons of
	disobedience" (Ephesians 2:2),
	but "children" by generation; not merely by
	adoption, as "sons" might be. The Greek order
	more emphatically marks this innate corruption: "Those who in
	their (very) nature are children of wrath"; Ephesians 2:2- :, "grace" is opposed to "nature" here; and
	salvation (implied in Ephesians 2:5;
	Ephesians 2:8, "saved") to
	"wrath." Compare Article IX, Church of England Common
	Prayer Book. "Original sin (birth-sin), standeth not in the
	following of Adam, but is the fault and corruption of the nature of
	every man, naturally engendered of Adam [Christ was supernaturally
	conceived by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin], whereby man is very far
	gone from original righteousness, and is of his own nature inclined
	to evil; and therefore, in every person born into this world, it
	deserveth God's wrath and damnation." Paul shows that even the
	Jews, who boasted of their birth from Abraham, were by natural birth
	equally children of wrath as the Gentiles, whom the Jews despised on
	account of their birth from idolaters (Romans 3:9;
	Romans 5:12-14). "Wrath
	abideth" on all who disobey the Gospel in faith and practice
	(John 3:36). The phrase,
	"children of wrath," is a Hebraism, that is, objects of
	God's wrath from childhood, in our natural state, as being born in
	the sin which God hates. So "son of death" (John 3:36- :, Margin); "son of perdition" (John 17:12;
	2 Thessalonians 2:3). 
	as others—Greek,
	"as the rest" of mankind are (2 Thessalonians 2:3- :).