 7 .]  in order that (this  ἵνα , in the  form of the sentence,  may express the aim either of  ἔσωσεν (Beng., De W., Huther, Ellic.) or of ἐξέχεεν : more naturally, I believe, of the latter (Wiesinger): and for these reasons, that  ἔσωσεν seeming to have its full pregnant meaning as it stands, (1) does not require any further statement of aim and purpose: but  ἐξέχεεν being a mere word of action, is more properly followed by a statement of a reason  why the pouring out took place : and (2) that this statement of aim and purpose, if it applies to ἔσωσεν , has been already anticipated, if ἔσωσεν be understood as including what is generally known as σωτηρία .
	Theologically, this statement of purpose is exact: the effusion of the Spirit has for its purpose the conviction of sin and manifestation of the righteousness of Christ, out of which two spring justifying faith)  having been justified (the aor. part. here (expressed in English by ‘having been’) is not contemporaneous with the aor. subj. below. Ordinarily this would be so: but the theological consideration of the place of justification in the Christian life, illustrated by such passages as Romans 5:1 , δικαιωθέντες οὖν ἐκ πίστεως εἰρήνην ἔχωμεν πρὸς τ . θεόν , κ . τ . λ ., seems to determine here the aor. part. to be antecedent to γενήθωμεν )  by His (  ἐκείνου , referring to the more remote subject, must be used here not of our Lord, who has just been mentioned, but of the Father: and so, usually, χάρις θεοῦ (Acts 9:23 ; Acts 20:24 ; Acts 20:32 ; Romans 5:15 ; 1 Corinthians 1:4 , &c.) is the efficient cause of our justification in Christ)  grace, we might be made (perhaps passive, see however on 1Th 1:5 )  heirs (see especially Gal 3:29 )  according to (in pursuance of, consistently with, so that the inheritance does not disappoint, but fully accomplishes and satisfies the hope; not ‘  through ’ (?) as Conyb., referring to Romans 8:24-25 , where, however, the thought is entirely different)  the hope of eternal life (I cannot consent, although considerable scholars (e.g. De W., Ellic.) have maintained the view, to join the gen.  ζωῆς with κληρονόμοι , in the presence of the expression, in this very Epistle, ἐπ ʼ ἐλπίδι ζωῆς αἰωνίου , ch. Titus 1:2 . The objection brought against joining ἐλπίδα with ζωῆς here is that thus κληρονόμοι would stand alone. But it  does thus stand alone in every place where St. Paul uses it in the spiritual sense; viz. Romans 4:14 ; Rom 8:17 bis ( θεοῦ is a wholly different genitive): Galatians 3:29 ; Galatians 4:1 ; Galatians 4:7 ; and therefore why not here? Chrys.’s two renderings, both of which Huther quotes for his view, will suit mine just as well: κατ ʼ ἐλπίδα , τουτέστι , καθὼς ἠλπίσαμεν , οὕτως ἀπολαύσομεν , ἢ ὅτι ἤδη καὶ κληρονόμοι ἐστέ . The former is the one to which I have inclined: the latter would mean, “we might be heirs, according to the hope” i.e. in proportion as we have the hope, realize our heirship “of eternal life”).