 1, 2 .]  Rules concerning behaviour to those without .  Put them in mind (as of a duty previously and otherwise well known, but liable to be forgotten)  to be in subjection to governments, to authorities, to obey the magistrate (  πειθαρχεῖν here probably stands absolutely, not, as Huther, connected with the dat. ἀρχαῖς ἐξ . So Xen. Cyr. viii. 1. 4, μεγιστον ἀγαθὸν τὸ πειθαρχεῖν φαίνεται εἰς τὸ καταπράττειν τὰ ἀγαθά . The other construction has however the reff. in its favour),  to be ready towards every good work (the connexion seems to be as in Romans 13:3 , where the rulers are said to be οὐ φόβος τῷ ἀγαθῷ ἔργῳ , ἀλλὰ τῷ κακῷ . Compare also the remarkable coincidence in the sentiment of Xen. quoted above. Jerome in loc., Wetst., De W., al., suppose these exhortations to subjection to have found their occasion in the insubordination of the Jews on principle to foreign rule, and more especially of the Cretan Jews. In the presence of similar exhortations in the Epistle to the Romans and elsewhere, we can hardly perhaps say so much as this: but certainly Wetst.’s quotations from Diod. Sic., al., seem to establish the fact of Cretan turbulence in general.
	The inference drawn by Thdrt., al., from these last words, οὐδὲ γὰρ εἰς ἅπαντα δεῖ τοῖς ἄρχουσι πειθαρχεῖν , does not seem to be legitimately deduced from them),  to speak evil of no one (these words set forth the  general duty, but are perhaps introduced owing to what has preceded, cf. 2 Peter 2:10 ; Jud 1:8 ),  to be not quarrelsome (ref. and note),  forbearing (ib., and note on Philippians 4:5 . “The ἐπιεικής must have been, it is to be feared, a somewhat exceptional character in Crete, where an ἔμφυτος πλεονεξία , exhibited in outward acts of aggression, καὶ ἰδίᾳ καὶ κατὰ κοινόν (Polyb. vi. 46 9), is described as one of the prevailing and dominant vices.” Ellicott),  manifesting all meekness towards all men (from what follows, πάντας ἀνθρ . is evidently to be taken in the widest sense, and especially to be applied to the heathen without: see below).