 8 .]  Faithful is the saying (reff.: viz. the saying which has just been uttered, ὅτε ἡ χρηστότης κ . τ . λ . This sentence alone, of those which have gone before, has the solemn and somewhat rhythmical character belonging for the most part to the “faithful sayings” of the apostolic church quoted  in these Epistles ),  and concerning these things (the things which have just been dwelt on; see above)  I would have thee positively affirm (‘confirmare,’ Vulg.; ‘asseverare,’ Beza: cf. Polyb. xii. 12. 6, διοριζόμενος καὶ διαβεβαιούμενος περὶ τούτων . The  διὰ implies persistence and thoroughness in the affirmation),  in order that (not, ‘that,’ implying the  purport of that which he is διαβεβαιοῦσθαι , nor is what follows the πιστὸς λόγος , as would appear in the E. V.: what follows is to be the result of thorough affirmation of Tit 3:4-7 )  they who have believed (have been brought to belief and endure in it: the present would perhaps express the sense, but the perfect is to be preferred, inasmuch as πιστεύειν is often used of the hour and act of commencing belief: cf. Acts 19:2 ; Rom 13:11 )  God (trusted God, learned to credit what God says: not to be confounded with πιστ . εἰς , Joh 14:1 , 1 Peter 1:8 ; 1Pe 1:21 or πιστ . ἐν , Mark 1:15 (not used of God), or πιστ . ἐπί , Romans 4:5 . There appears no reason for supposing with De W. that these words describe merely the Gentile Christians)  may take care to (  φροντίζειν with an inf. is not the ordinary construction: it commonly has ὅπως , ἵνα , ὡς , εἰ , μή , or a relative clause. We have an instance in Plut. Fab. Max. c. 12, τὰ πραττόμενα γινώσκειν ἐφρόντιζεν . See Palm and Rost, sub voce)  practise (a workman presides over, is master and conductor of, his work: and thus the transition in προΐστασθαι from presiding over to conducting and practising a business was very easy. Thus we have, tracing the progress of this transition, οὗτοι μάλιστα προειστήκεισαν τῆς μεταβολῆς , Thuc. viii. 75: πῶς οὐ φανερὸν ὅτι προστάντες τοῦ πράγματος τὰ γνωσθένθ ʼ ὑφ ʼ ὑμῶν ἀποστερῆσαί με ζητοῦσιν , Demosth. 869, 2: Ἀσπασία οὐ κοσμίου προεστῶσα ἐργασίας , Plut. Pericl. 24: τέχνης προΐστασθαι , ὣ τοῖσιν ἐχθροῖς … προὐστήτην φόνου , Soph. El. 968: χειρὶ βιαίᾳ προστῆναι τοῦ πανουργήματος , Synes. Ep. 67, p. 211 d. See Palm and Rost, sub voce)  good works: these things (viz. same as τούτων before, the great truths of Titus 3:4-7 , this doctrine; not, as Thl., ἡ φροντὶς καὶ ἡ προστασία τῶν καλῶν ἔργων , ἢ αὐτὰ τὰ καλὰ ἔργα , which would be a tautology: see 1Ti 2:3 )  are good and profitable for men .