 4 .]  But when the goodness (reff.)  and love-towards-men (I prefer this literal rendering of φιλανθρωπία to any of the more usual ones: cf. Diog. Laert. Plat. iii. 98, τῆς φιλανθρωπίας ἐστὶν εἴδη τρία · ἓν μὲν διὰ τῆς προσηγορίας γινόμενον , οἷον ἐν οἷς τινὲς τὸν ἐντυγχάνοντα πάντα προσαγορεύουσι καὶ τὴν δεξιὰν ἐμβάλλοντες χαιρετίζουσιν · ἄλλο εἶδος , ὅταν τις βοηθητικὸς ᾖ παντὶ τῷ ἀτυχοῦντι · ἕτερον εἶδός ἐστι τῆς φιλανθρωπίας ἐν ᾧ τινὲς φιλοδειπνισταί εἰσι . The second of these is evidently that here intended, but Huther’s view of the correspondence of this description of God’s kindness to us with that which we are required ( Tit 3:2 ) to shew to others, appears to me to be borne out: and thus His φιλανθρωπία would parallel πραΰτητα πρὸς πάντας ἀνθρώπους above, and the fact of its being ‘love  toward men ’ should be expressed. Bengel’s remark also is worth notice: “Hominum vitia plane contraria enumerantur versu 3.” The junction of χρηστὸς , - ότης , with φιλάνθρωπος , - ία , is very common: see the numerous quotations in Wetst.)  of our Saviour, God (the Father: cf. διὰ Ἰησ . χρ . below, and see note on ch. Tit 2:13 ),  was manifested (viz. in Redemption, by the Incarnation and Satisfaction of the Redeemer),  not by virtue of ( ἐξ , as the ground out of which an act springs. Cf. besides the frequent ἐκ πίστεως , ἐξ ἔργων , Mat 12:37 bis: Romans 1:4 ; 2Co 13:4 )  works wrought in (I have thus represented the τῶν ἐν : ἔργων (general, ‘  any works ’) τῶν ἐν δικ . (viz. ‘  which were ,’ particularizing out of those, ‘  in righteousness ’)  ἐν δικ .  in righteousness, as the element and condition in which they were wrought)  righteousness which we (emphatic)  did (not, ‘  have done ,’ as E. V., nor ‘  had done ,’ as Conyb., which in fact obscures the meaning: for God’s act here spoken of was a definite act in time and its application to us, also a definite act in time (see below): and if we take this ἐποιήσαμεν pluperfect, we confine the Apostle’s repudiation of our works, as moving causes of those acts of God, to the  time previous to those acts . For aught that this pluperfect would assert, our salvation might be prompted on God’s part by future works of righteousness which He foresaw we should do. Whereas the simple aoristic sense throws the whole into the same time, “His goodness, &c. was manifested … not for works which we did.… He saved us,” and renders the repudiation of human merit universal. On the construction, cf. Thl.: ἔσωσεν ἡμᾶς οὐκ ἐξ ἔργων ὧν ἐποιήσαμεν , ἀντὶ τοῦ οὔτε ἐποιήσαμεν ἔργα δικαιοσύνης , οὔτε ἐσώθημεν ἐκ τούτων , ἀλλὰ τὸ πᾶν ἢ ἀγαθότης αὐτοῦ ἐποίησε ),  but according to (after the measure of, in pursuance of, after the promptings of: see Ellic.’s note)  His compassion He saved us (this  ἔσωσεν must be referred back to the definite objective act of God in Redemption, which has been above mentioned. On the part of God, that act is one in the application of it to individuals, it is composed of many and successive acts. But this ἔσωσεν , being contemporaneous with ὅτε ἐπεφάνη above, cannot apply, as De Wette, to our individual salvation alone. At the same time, standing as it does in a transitional position, between God’s objective act and the subjective individual application of it, it no doubt looks forward as well as backward to individual realization of salvation, as well as to the divine completion of it once for all in Christ. Calvin, h. l., refers the completeness of our salvation rather to God’s looking on it as subjectively accomplished in us: “De fide loquitur, et nos jam salutem adeptos esse docet. Ergo utcunque peccato implicit corpus mortis circumferamus, certi tamen de salute nostra sumus, si modo fide insiti simus in Christum, secundum illud ( Joh 5:24 ): ‘Qui credit in filium Dei, transivit de morte in vitam.’ Paulo post tamen, fidei nomine interposito nos re ipsa nondum adeptos esse ostendit, quod Christus morte sua præstitit. Unde sequitur, ex parte Dei salutem nostram impletam esse, cujus fruitio in finem usque militiæ differtur.”
	The  ἡμᾶς here is not  all mankind , which would be inconsistent with what follows, nor  all Christians , however true that would be, but the same as are indicated by καὶ ἡμεῖς above, the particular Christians in the Apostle’s view as he was writing Titus and his Cretan converts, and himself)  by means of the laver (not ‘  washing ,’ as E. V.: see the Lexx.: but always a vessel, or pool in which washing takes place. Here, the baptismal font: see on Eph 5:26 )  of regeneration (first, let us treat of  παλιγγενεσία . It occurs only in ref. Matt., and there in an objective sense, whereas here it is evidently subjective. There, it is the great second birth of heaven and earth in the latter days: here, the second birth of the individual man. Though not occurring elsewhere in this sense, it has its cognate expressions, e.g. ἀναγεννάω , 1 Peter 1:3 ; 1 Peter 1:23 ; γεννηθῆναι ἄνωθεν , John 3:3 &c. Then, of the  genitive . The font is the ‘laver of regeneration,’ because it is the vessel consecrated to the use of that Sacrament whereby, in its  completeness as a Sacrament (see below), the new life unto God is conveyed. And inasmuch as it is in that font, and when we are in it, that the first breath of that life is drawn, it is the laver  of , belonging to, pertaining to, setting forth, regeneration.
	Observe, there is here no figure: the words are literal: Baptism is taken as in all its completion, the outward visible sign accompanied by the inward spiritual grace; and as thus  complete , it not only represents, but  is , the new birth. Cf. Calvin: “Solent Apostoli a Sacramentis ducere argumentum, ut rem illic significatam probent, quia principium illud valere debet inter pios, Deum non inanibus nobiscum figuris ludere, sed virtute sua intus præstare quod externo signo demonstrat. Quare Baptismus congruenter et vere lavacrum regenerationis dicitur. Vim et usum Sacramentorum recte is tenebit qui rem et signum ita connectet, ut signum non faciat inane aut inefficax: neque tamen ejus ornandi causa Spiritui sancto detrahat quod suum est.” The font then, the laver of regeneration, representing the external portion of the Sacrament, and pledging the internal; that  inward and spiritual grace , necessary to the completion of the Sacrament and its regenerating power, is not, as too often, left to follow as a matter of course, and thus baptismal regeneration rendered a mere formal and unmeaning thing, ‘ex opere operato,’ but is distinctly stated in the following words)  and (understand  διὰ again: so Thdrt. apparently, Bengel (‘duæ res commemorantur: lavacrum regenertionis, quæ baptismi in Christum periphrasis, et renovatio Spiritus sancti’), al. On the other hand, most Commentators (see Ellic. here) take ἀνακαινώσεως as a second gen. after λουτροῦ : and for the purpose of making this clearer, the τοῦ seems to have been inserted before λουτροῦ (see var. readd.). The great formal objection to this is, the destruction of the balance of the sentence, in which παλιγγενεσίας would be one gen., and ἀνακαινώσεως πνεύματος ἁγίου the other. The far greater contextual objection is, that thus the whole from παλ . to ἁγίου would be included under λουτροῦ , and baptism made not only the seal of the new birth, but the sacrament of progressive sanctification)  the renewal (  ἀνακαίνωσις , see reff., is used of the gradual renewal of heart and life in the image of God, following upon the new birth, and without which the birth is a mere abortion, not leading on to vitality and action. It is here treated as potentially involved in God’s act ἔσωσεν . We must not, as Huther, al., for the sake of making it contemporaneous with the λουτρόν , give it another and untenable meaning, that of mere incipient spiritual life)  of (brought about by; genitive of the efficient cause)  the Holy Spirit (who alone can renew unto life in progressive sanctification. So that, as in 1 Peter 3:21 , it is not the mere outward act or fact of baptism to which we attach such high and glorious epithets, but that complete baptism by water and the Holy Ghost, whereof the first cleansing by water is indeed the ordinary sign and seal, but whereof the glorious indwelling Spirit of God is the only efficient cause and continuous agent. ‘BAPTISMAL REGENERATION’ is the  distinguishing doctrine of the new covenant ( Mat 3:11 ): but let us take care that we know and bear in mind what ‘  baptism ’ means: not the mere ecclesiastical act, not the mere fact of reception by that act among God’s professing people, but that, completed by the divine act, manifested by the operation of the Holy Ghost in the heart and through the life),