38-40. Joseph of Arimathea—"a
	rich man" (Matthew 27:57),
	thus fulfilling Isaiah 53:9; "an
	honorable counsellor," a member of the Sanhedrim, and of good
	condition, "which also waited for the kingdom of God" (Isaiah 53:9- :), a devout expectant of Messiah's kingdom; "a good man
	and a just, the same had not consented to the counsel and deed of
	them" (Luke 23:50; Luke 23:51
	—he had gone the length, perhaps, of dissenting and protesting in
	open council against the condemnation of our Lord); "who also
	himself was Jesus' disciple," (Luke 23:51- :). 
	being a disciple of Jesus,
	but secretly, for fear of the Jews—"He went in boldly unto
	Pilate" (Mark 15:43)
	—literally, "having taken courage went in," or "had
	the boldness to go in." Mark alone, as his manner is, notices
	the boldness which this required. The act would without doubt
	identify him for the first time with the disciples of Christ.
	Marvellous it certainly is, that one who while Jesus was yet alive
	merely refrained from condemning Him, not having the courage to
	espouse His cause by one positive act, should, now that He was dead,
	and His cause apparently dead with Him, summon up courage to go in
	personally to the Roman governor and ask permission to take down and
	inter the body. But if this be the first instance, it is not the
	last, that a seemingly dead Christ has wakened a sympathy which a
	living one had failed to evoke. The heroism of faith is usually
	kindled by desperate circumstances, and is not seldom displayed by
	those who before were the most timid, and scarce known as disciples
	at all. "And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead"
	(Mark 15:44) —rather "wondered
	that he was already dead." "And calling the centurion, he
	asked him whether He had been any while dead" (Mark 15:44- :) —Pilate could hardly credit what Joseph had told him,
	that He had been dead "some time," and, before giving up
	the body to His friends, would learn how the fact stood from the
	centurion, whose business it was to oversee the execution. "And
	when he knew it of the centurion" (Mark 15:44- :), that it was as Joseph had said, "he gave"—rather
	"made a gift of"—"the body to Joseph"; struck,
	possibly, with the rank of the petitioner and the dignified boldness
	of the petition, in contrast with the spirit of the other party and
	the low rank to which he had been led to believe all the followers of
	Christ belonged. Nor would he be unwilling to Show that he was not
	going to carry this black affair any farther. But, whatever were
	Pilate's motives, two most blessed objects were thus secured: (1) The
	reality of our Lords death was attested by the party of all
	others most competent to decide on it, and certainly free from all
	bias—the officer in attendance—in full reliance on whose
	testimony Pilate surrendered the body: (2) The dead Redeemer, thus
	delivered out of the hands of His enemies, and committed by the
	supreme political authority to the care of His friends, was thereby
	protected from all further indignities; a thing most befitting
	indeed, now that His work was done, but impossible, so far as we can
	see, if His enemies had been at liberty to do with Him as they
	pleased. How wonderful are even the minutest features of this
	matchless History!