26, 27. When Jesus . . . saw his
	mother, and the disciple whom he loved, standing by, he saith to his
	mother, WOMAN,
	BEHOLD THY
	SON! Then
	saith he to the disciple, BEHOLD
	THY
	MOTHER!—What
	forgetfulness of self, what filial love, and to the "mother"
	and "son" what parting words! 
	from that hour . . . took her
	to his own home—or, home with him; for his father Zebedee and
	his mother Salome were both alive, and the latter here present ( :-). See on  :-. Now
	occurred the supernatural darkness, recorded by all the other
	Evangelists, but not here. "Now from the sixth hour (twelve
	o'clock, noon) there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth
	hour" (Matthew 27:45). No
	ordinary eclipse of the sun could have occurred at this time, it
	being then full moon, and this obscuration lasted about twelve
	times the length of any ordinary eclipse. (Compare Exodus 10:21;
	Exodus 10:23). Beyond doubt, the
	divine intention of the portent was to invest this darkest of all
	tragedies with a gloom expressive of its real character. "And
	about the ninth hour Jesus cried, ELI,
	ELI, LAMA
	SABACHTHANI . . . My
	God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?" (Exodus 10:23- :). As the darkness commenced at the sixth hour, the second
	of the Jewish hours of prayer, so it continued till the ninth hour,
	the hour of the evening sacrifice, increasing probably in
	depth, and reaching its deepest gloom at the moment of this
	mysterious cry, when the flame of the one great "Evening
	Sacrifice" was burning fiercest. The words were made to His
	hand. They are the opening words of a Psalm (Exodus 10:23- :) full of the last "sufferings of Christ and the
	following glories" (1 Peter 1:11).
	"FATHER," was
	the cry in the first prayer which He uttered on the cross, for
	matters had not then come to the worst. "Father" was the
	cry of His last prayer, for matters had then passed their worst. But
	at this crisis of His sufferings, "Father" does not issue
	from His lips, for the light of a Father's countenance was then
	mysteriously eclipsed. He falls back, however, on a title expressive
	of His official relation, which, though lower and more distant
	in itself, yet when grasped in pure and naked faith was mighty in its
	claims, and rich in psalmodic associations. And what deep earnestness
	is conveyed by the redoubling of this title! But as for the cry
	itself, it will never be fully comprehended. An absolute desertion is
	not indeed to be thought of; but a total eclipse of the felt
	sense of God's presence it certainly expresses. It expre'sses
	surprise, as under the experience of something not only never
	before known, but inexplicable on the footing which had
	till then subsisted between Him and God. It is a question which
	the lost cannot utter. They are forsaken, but they know why.
	Jesus is forsaken, but does not know and demands to know why.
	It is thus the cry of conscious innocence, but of innocence
	unavailing to draw down, at that moment, the least token of approval
	from the unseen Judge—innocence whose only recognition at that
	moment lay in the thick surrounding gloom which but reflected the
	horror of great darkness that invested His own spirit. There was
	indeed a cause for it, and He knew it too—the "why"
	must not be pressed so far as to exclude this. He must taste this
	bitterest of the wages of sin "who did no sin"
	(1 Peter 2:22). But that is not the
	point now. In Him there was no cause at all (1 Peter 2:22- :) and He takes refuge in the glorious fact. When no ray from
	above shines in upon Him, He strikes a light out of His own breast.
	If God will not own Him, He shall own Himself. On the rock of His
	unsullied allegiance to Heaven He will stand, till the light of
	Heaven returns to His spirit. And it is near to come. While He is yet
	speaking, the fierceness of the flame is beginning to abate. One
	incident and insult more, and the experience of one other predicted
	element of suffering, and the victory is His. The incident, and the
	insult springing out of it, is the misunderstanding of the cry, for
	we can hardly suppose that it was anything else. "Some of them
	that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for
	Elias" (Matthew 27:47).