29. filled a sponge with vinegar,
	and put it upon—a stalk of 
	hyssop, and put it to his
	mouth—Though a stalk of this plant does not exceed eighteen
	inches in length, it would suffice, as the feet of crucified persons
	were not raised high. "The rest said, Let be"—[that is,
	as would seem, 'Stop that officious service'] "let us see
	whether Elias will come to save Him" ( :-). This was the last cruelty He was to suffer, but it was
	one of the most unfeeling. "And when Jesus had cried with a loud
	voice" (Luke 23:46). This
	"loud voice," noticed by three of the Evangelists,
	does not imply, as some able interpreters contend, that our Lord's
	strength was so far from being exhausted that He needed not to die
	then, and surrendered up His life sooner than Nature required, merely
	because it was the appointed time. It was indeed the appointed time,
	but time that He should be "crucified through weakness"
	(1 Corinthians 13:4), and Nature was now
	reaching its utmost exhaustion. But just as even His own dying
	saints, particularly the martyrs of Jesus, have sometimes had such
	gleams of coming glory immediately before breathing their last, as to
	impart to them a strength to utter their feelings which has amazed
	the by-standers, so this mighty voice of the expiring Redeemer
	was nothing else but the exultant spirit of the Dying Victor,
	receiving the fruit of His travail just about to be embraced, and
	nerving the organs of utterance to an ecstatic expression of its
	sublime feelings (not so much in the immediately following
	words of tranquil surrender, in Luke, as in the final shout,
	recorded only by John): "FATHER,
	INTO THY HANDS I
	COMMEND MY
	SPIRIT!" (Luke 23:46).
	Yes, the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. His soul
	has emerged from its mysterious horrors; "My God" is
	heard no more, but in unclouded light He yields sublime into His
	Father's hands the infinitely precious spirit—using here
	also the words of those matchless Psalms (Luke 23:46- :) which were ever on His lips. "As the Father receives
	the spirit of Jesus, so Jesus receives those of the faithful"
	(Acts 7:59) [BENGEL].
	And now comes the expiring mighty shout.