10. made us—A, B, Aleph,
	Vulgate, Syriac, and Coptic read, "them." The
	Hebrew construction of the third person for the first, has a
	graphic relation to the redeemed, and also has a more modest
	sound than us, priests [BENGEL].
	unto our God—So B and
	Aleph read. But A omits the clause. 
	kings—So B reads. But
	A, Aleph, Vulgate, Coptic, and CYPRIAN,
	read, "A kingdom." Aleph reads also "a
	priesthood" for priests. They who cast their crowns
	before the throne, do not call themselves kings in the sight
	of the great King (Revelation 4:10;
	Revelation 4:11); though their priestly
	access has such dignity that their reigning on earth cannot exceed
	it. So in Revelation 20:6 they are not
	called "kings" [BENGEL].
	we shall reign on the
	earth—This is a new feature added to Revelation 20:6- :. Aleph, Vulgate, and Coptic read, "They
	shall reign." A and B read, "They reign."
	ALFORD takes this reading
	and explains it of the Church EVEN
	NOW, in Christ her Head, reigning on the earth: "all
	things are being put under her feet, as under His; her kingly office
	and rank are asserted, even in the midst of persecution." But
	even if we read (I think the weightiest authority is against it),
	"They reign," still it is the prophetical present
	for the future: the seer being transported into the future when the
	full number of the redeemed (represented by the four living
	creatures) shall be complete and the visible kingdom begins.
	The saints do spiritually reign now; but certainly not as they shall
	when the prince of this world shall be bound (see on Revelation 20:6- :). So far from reigning on the earth now, they are
	"made as the filth of the world and the offscouring of all
	things." In Revelation 11:15;
	Revelation 11:18, the locality and time
	of the kingdom are marked. KELLY
	translates, "reign over the earth" (Greek,
	"epi tees gees"), which is justified by the Greek
	(Septuagint, Judges 9:8;
	Matthew 2:22). The elders, though
	ruling over the earth, shall not necessarily (according to
	this passage) remain on the earth. But English Version
	is justified by Revelation 3:10. "The
	elders were meek, but the flock of the meek independently is
	much larger" [BENGEL].