 20. ]  ἐπιστεῖλαι , to send an ἐπιστολή : then τοῦ ἀπ ., of the purpose of such epistle,  to the end that they may abstain, &c.
	 ἀλισγ  . belongs to εἰδώλων only. Meyer understands it to refer to the four genitives, the pollutions of (1) idols, (2) fornication, (3) things strangled, (4) blood. This he rests on the non-repetition of ἀπό before τῆς πορν . But in this case the members do not correspond. The Gentile converts needed no command to abstain from the pollution of  idolatry : and the use of the Alexandrine verb ἀλισγεῖν in reff. shews it to apply most naturally to pollution by  eating . The ἀλ . τ . εἰδ . are the things polluted by being offered to idols, about which there was much doubt and contention in the early church: see Exodus 34:15 , and 1 Corinthians 8:0 and 1 Corinthians 10:19 .
	 τῆς πορνείας ] It may seem strange that a  positive sin should be made the subject of these enactments which mostly regard things in themselves indifferent, but rendered otherwise by expediency and charity to others. In consequence we have the following attempts to evade the simple rendering of the word: (1) Beza, Selden, Schleusner, explain it of  spiritual fornication in eating things offered to idols: (2) Morus and Heinrichs, of the committal of actual fornication at the  rites in idol temples : (3) Salmasius, of the sin of the whore-  master : (4) Calovius, of  concubinage : (5) Lightfoot, of  marriage within the forbidden degrees : (6) Teller, of  marriage with heathens : (7) Bentley would read χοιρείας , ‘  swine’s flesh :’ (8) πορκείας has also been conjectured (probably not by Bentley, as stated in Meyer, De W., and this work, edn. 1): see other renderings in Meyer and De Wette. But the solution will best be found in the fact, that πορνεία was universally in the Gentile world regarded on the same footing with the other things mentioned, as an ἀδιάφορον , and is classed here as Gentiles would be accustomed to hear of it, among those things which they allowed themselves, but which the Jews regarded as forbidden. The moral abomination of the practice is not here in question, but is abundantly set forth by our Lord and his Apostles in other places.
	 πνικτοῦ ] as  containing the blood , see Leviticus 17:13-14 .
	 αἵματος ]  blood , in any shape: see Genesis 9:4 ; Leviticus 17:13-14 ; Deuteronomy 12:23-24 . Cypr [78] , Tertull., and others interpret the word of  homicide , which is refuted by the context.
	 [78]  Cyprian, Bp. of Carthage , 248 258