 27. ] This is introduced by John 14:25 , which suggests the speedy close of the discourse. It was customary to take leave with wishes of peace: so 1 Samuel 1:17 ; Luke 7:50 ; Act 16:36 ; 1 Peter 5:14 ; 1 Peter 3:0 John 15. Also, to reassure by such words, see Genesis 43:23 ; Judges 6:23 . But our Lord distinguishes  His peace,  true peace, ‘  the peace which I have and give ’ (see ch. Joh 15:11 ), from the mere empty word used in the world’s form of greeting. Peace (in general) He  leaves with them;  His peace He  gives to them, over and above that other. The καθὼς ὁ κ . δίδ . must refer, I think (with Lampe, Lücke, and Stier), to the world’s  manner of giving , not to the unreality of the world’s peace, of which, however true, there is no direct mention here. The world can only give peace in empty formulæ, saying ‘Peace, peace,’ when there is no peace: Jeremiah 6:14 . alli [201] .
	 [201] alli = some cursive mss.
	Joh 14:28 as far as ὑμᾶς is a reason why their heart should not be troubled; then the rest of the verse removes all ground of δειλία , since it is an  exaltation of Him whom they loved, which is about to happen; and therefore a ground of joy, and not of fear.
	 μείζων ] And therefore the  going of Jesus  to the Father is an  advancement . This word  greater, as Luther well remarks (Stier, ver. 228, edn. 2), is not here used as referring to the  Nature or Essence of the Son as related to the Father , but as indicating that particular subordination to the Father in which the Lord Jesus then was, and the cessation of the state of humiliation, and entering into His glory, which would take place on His being received up to the Father. So also Calvin: “Non confert hic Christus Patris Divinitatem cum sua, nec humanam suam naturam divinæ Patris essentiæ comparat, sed potius statum præsentem cœlesti gloriæ ad quam mox recipiendus erat.” And Cocceius: “Non intelligitur hic minoritas secundum naturam humanam, quia intelligitur minoritas quæ per profectionem ad Patrem  deponitur ” (Stier, ibid. Similarly, De Wette, Tholuck). And this removes all reason for fear, as  they will be exalted in  Him .
	The whole doctrinal controversy which has been raised on these words (especially by the Fathers against the Arians, see Suicer, Thes. ii. pp. 1368 9), seems not to belong to the sense of the passage. That  there is a sense in which the Father is greater than even the  glorified Son, is beyond doubt (see especially 1 Corinthians 15:27 f.); but as on the one hand that concession is no concession to Arianism, because it is not in the essential being of the Son, but in His Mediatorial office that this  minoritas consists, so on the other hand this verse implies in itself  no such minoritas, the discourse being of  another kind .