Draw out [αντλησατε] . From antlov, the hold of a ship where the bilge - water settles, and hence, the bilge - water itself. The verb, therefore, originally, means to bale out bilge - water; thence, generally, to draw, as from a well (iv. 15). Canon Westcott thinks that the water which was changed into wine was not taken from the vessels of purification, but that the servants were bidden, after they had filled the vessels with water, to continue drawing from the well or spring. Ruler of the feast [αρχιτρικλινω] . From arcw, to be chief, and triklinon, Latin, triclinium, a banqueting - hall with three couches (see on Mark 6:39). Some explain the word as meaning the superintendent of the banqueting - chamber, a servant whose duty it was to arrange the table - furniture and the courses, and to taste the food beforehand. Others as meaning one of the guests selected to preside at the banquet according to the Greek and Roman usage. This latter view seems to be supported by a passage in Ecclesiasticus (xxxv. 1, 2) : "If thou be made the master of a feast, lift not thyself up, but be among them as one of the rest; take diligent care for them, and so sit down. And when thou hast done all thy office, take thy place, that thou mayst be merry with them, and receive a crown for thy well ordering of the feast." According to the Greek and Roman custom, the ruler of the feast was chosen by throwing the dice. Thus Horace, in his ode to his friend Sestius, says, moralizing on the brevity of life : "Soon the home of Pluto will be thine, nor wilt thou cast lots with the dice for the presidency over the wine." He prescribed the proportions of wine and water, and could also impose fines for failures to guess riddles, etc. As the success of the feast depended largely upon him, his selection was a matter of some delicacy. Plato says, "Must we not appoint a sober man and a wise to be our master of the revels? For if the ruler of drinkers be himself young and drunken, and not over - wise, only by some special good fortune will he be saved from doing some great evil" (" Laws, " 640). The word occurs only here and ver. 9. Wyc. simply transcribes : architriclyn.