Verse 2 Corinthians 12:9. My grace is sufficient for thee — Thou shalt not be permitted to sink under these afflictions. Thy enemies shall not be able to prevail against thee.My strength is made perfect in weakness. — The more, and the more violently, thou art afflicted and tried, being upheld by my power, and prospered in all thy labours, the more eminently will my power be seen and acknowledged. For the weaker the instrument I use, the more the power of my grace shall be manifested. See at the end of this chapter. "2 Corinthians 12:21"Will I rather glory in my infirmities — Therefore, his infirmities do not mean his corruptions, or sins, or sinfulness of any kind; for it would be blasphemous for any man to say, I will rather glory that God leaves my corruptions in me, than that he should take them away.That the power of Christ may rest upon me. — επισκηνωση επ εμε. That it may overshadow me as a tent, or tabernacle; affording me shelter, protection, safety, and rest. This expression is like that, John 1:14: And the word was made flesh, και εσκηνωσεν εν ημιν and made his tabernacle among us-full of grace and truth. The same eternal WORD promised to make his tabernacle with the apostle, and gives him a proof that he was still the same-full of grace and truth, by assuring him that his grace should be sufficient for him. Paul, knowing that the promise of grace could not fail, because of the Divine truth, says: Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my afflictions, that such a power of Christ may overshadow and defend me.The words are also similar to those of the Prophet Isaiah, Isaiah 4:5: On all the glory shall be a defence. God gives the glory, and God gives the defence of that glory. The apostle had much glory or honour; both Satan and his apostles were very envious; in himself the apostle, as well as all human beings, was weak, and therefore needed the power of God to defend such glory. Grace alone can preserve grace. When we get a particular blessing we need another to preserve it; and without this we shall soon be shorn of our strength, and become as other men. Hence the necessity of continual watchfulness and prayer, and depending on the all-sufficient grace of Christ. See note on 2 Corinthians 11:30.