15. For—the motive to "holding
	our profession" (Hebrews 4:14),
	namely the sympathy and help we may expect from our High Priest.
	Though "great" (Hebrews 4:14- :), He is not above caring for us; nay, as being in all points
	one with us as to manhood, sin only excepted, He sympathizes with us
	in every temptation. Though exalted to the highest heavens, He has
	changed His place, not His nature and office in relation to us, His
	condition, but not His affection. Compare Hebrews 4:14- :, "watch with me": showing His desire in the days
	of His flesh for the sympathy of those whom He loved: so He
	now gives His suffering people His sympathy. Compare Aaron,
	the type, bearing the names of the twelve tribes in the breastplate
	of judgment on his heart, when he entered into the holy place, for a
	memorial before the Lord continually (Hebrews 4:14- :). 
	cannot be touched with the
	feeling of—Greek, "cannot sympathize with our
	infirmities": our weaknesses, physical and moral (not
	sin, but liability to its assaults). He, though sinless, can
	sympathize with us sinners; His understanding more acutely perceived
	the forms of temptation than we who are weak can; His will repelled
	them as instantaneously as the fire does the drop of water cast into
	it. He, therefore, experimentally knew what power was needed to
	overcome temptations. He is capable of sympathizing, for He was at
	the same time tempted without sin, and yet truly tempted [BENGEL].
	In Him alone we have an example suited to men of every character and
	under all circumstances. In sympathy He adapts himself to each, as if
	He had not merely taken on Him man's nature in general, but also the
	peculiar nature of that single individual. 
	but—"nay, rather,
	He was (one) tempted" [ALFORD].
	like as we are—Greek,
	"according to (our) similitude." 
	without sin—Greek,
	"choris," "separate from sin" (Hebrews 4:14- :). If the Greek "aneu" had been used,
	sin would have been regarded as the object absent from Christ
	the subject; but choris here implies that Christ, the subject,
	is regarded as separated from sin the object [TITTMANN].
	Thus, throughout His temptations in their origin, process, and
	result, sin had nothing in Him; He was apart and separate from it
	[ALFORD].