12. For—Such diligent
	striving (Hebrews 4:11) is
	incumbent on us FOR we
	have to do with a God whose "word" whereby we shall be
	judged, is heart-searching, and whose eyes are all-seeing (Hebrews 4:11- :). The qualities here attributed to the word of God,
	and the whole context, show that it is regarded in its JUDICIAL
	power, whereby it doomed the disobedient Israelites to exclusion from
	Canaan, and shall exclude unbelieving so-called Christians from the
	heavenly rest. The written Word of God is not the prominent thought
	here, though the passage is often quoted as if it were. Still the
	word of God (the same as that preached, Hebrews 4:11- :), used here in the broadest sense, but with special reference
	to its judicial power, INCLUDES
	the Word of God, the sword of the Spirit with double edge, one edge
	for convicting and converting some (Hebrews 4:11- :), and the other for condemning and destroying the unbelieving
	(Hebrews 4:14). Hebrews 4:14- : similarly represents the Word's judicial power as a sharp
	sword going out of Christ's mouth to smite the nations. The
	same word which is saving to the faithful (Hebrews 4:14- :) is destroying to the disobedient (2 Corinthians 2:15;
	2 Corinthians 2:16). The personal Word, to
	whom some refer the passage, is not here meant: for He is not
	the sword, but has the sword. Thus reference to Joshua
	appropriately follows in Hebrews 4:8.
	quick—Greek,
	"living"; having living power, as "the rod of the
	mouth and the breath of the lips" of "the living God."
	powerful—Greek,
	"energetic"; not only living, but energetically
	efficacious.
sharper—"more
	cutting." 
	two-edged—sharpened at
	both edge and back. Compare "sword of the Spirit . . . word of
	God" (Ephesians 6:17). Its
	double power seems to be implied by its being "two-edged."
	"It judges all that is in the heart, for there it passes
	through, at once punishing [unbelievers] and searching [both
	believers and unbelievers]" [CHRYSOSTOM].
	PHILO similarly speaks of
	"God passing between the parts of Abraham's sacrifices (Ephesians 6:17- :, where, however, it is a 'burning lamp' that passed between
	the pieces) with His word, which is the cutter of all things: which
	sword, being sharpened to the utmost keenness, never ceases to divide
	all sensible things, and even things not perceptible to sense or
	physically divisible, but perceptible and divisible by the word."
	Paul's early training, both in the Greek schools of Tarsus and
	the Hebrew schools at Jerusalem, accounts fully for his acquaintance
	with Philo's modes of thought, which were sure to be current among
	learned Jews everywhere, though Philo himself belonged to Alexandria,
	not Jerusalem. Addressing Jews, he by the Spirit sanctions what was
	true in their current literature, as he similarly did in addressing
	Gentiles (Acts 17:28). 
	piercing—Greek,
	"coming through." 
	even to the dividing asunder
	of soul and spirit—that is, reaching through even to the
	separation of the animal soul, the lower part of man's
	incorporeal nature, the seat of animal desires, which he has in
	common with the brutes; compare the same Greek, Acts 17:28- :, "the natural [animal-souled] man" (Acts 17:28- :), from the spirit (the higher part of man, receptive of the
	Spirit of God, and allying him to heavenly beings). 
	and of the joints and
	marrow—rather, "(reaching even TO)
	both the joints (so as to divide them) and marrow."
	Christ "knows what is in man" (Acts 17:28- :): so His word reaches as far as to the most intimate and
	accurate knowledge of man's most hidden parts, feelings, and
	thoughts, dividing, that is, distinguishing what is spiritual
	from what is carnal and animal in him, the spirit
	from the soul: so Proverbs 20:27.
	As the knife of the Levitical priest reached to dividing parts,
	closely united as the joints of the limbs, and penetrated to
	the innermost parts, as the marrows (the Greek is
	plural); so the word of God divides the closely joined parts
	of man's immaterial being, soul and spirit, and penetrates to the
	innermost parts of the spirit. The clause (reaching even to) "both
	the joints and marrow" is subordinate to the clause, "even
	to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit." (In the oldest
	manuscripts as in English Version, there is no "both,"
	as there is in the clause "both the joints and . .
	. which marks the latter to be subordinate). An image (appropriate in
	addressing Jews) from the literal dividing of joints, and penetrating
	to, so as to open out, the marrow, by the priest's knife,
	illustrating the previously mentioned spiritual "dividing of
	soul from spirit," whereby each (soul as well as spirit) is laid
	bare and "naked" before God; this view accords with Proverbs 20:27- :. Evidently "the dividing of the soul from the spirit"
	answers to the "joints" which the sword, when it reaches
	unto, divides asunder, as the "spirit" answers to
	the innermost "marrow." "Moses forms the soul, Christ
	the spirit. The soul draws with it the body; the spirit draws with it
	both soul and body." ALFORD'S
	interpretation is clumsy, by which he makes the soul itself,
	and the spirit itself, to be divided, instead of the soul from
	the spirit: so also he makes not only the joints to be divided
	asunder, but the marrow also to be divided (?). The Word's
	dividing and far penetrating power has both a punitive and a healing
	effect. 
	discerner of the
	thoughts—Greek, "capable of judging the purposes."
	intents—rather,
	"conceptions" [CRELLIUS];
	"ideas" [ALFORD].
	AS the Greek for "thoughts" refers to the mind
	and feelings, so that for "intents," or rather
	"mental conceptions," refers to the intellect.