 13 .] There are two ways of understanding the former part of this verse. Chrys., Theophyl., Grot., Est., Bengel, Olsh., De Wette, al., take it as a  continuation, and urging of the warning of the verse preceding , by the consideration that no temptation had  yet befallen them but such as was ἀνθρώπινος , ‘  within the power of human endurance :’ but ‘major tentatio imminet,’ Beng.: while Calvin, al., and Meyer regard it as a consolation, tending to shew them that βλεπέτω μὴ πέσῃ is within the limits of their power, seeing that their temptation to sin was nothing extraordinary or unheard of, but only ‘  according to man :’ and they might trust to God’s loving care, that no temptation should ever befall them which should surpass their power to resist. This latter seems to me beyond doubt the correct view. For (1) in the parallel which they bring for the former sense, Hebrews 12:4 , οὔ  πω is distinctly expressed, and would have been here also, had it been intended. Besides, in that case, οὔ  πω , as having the primary emphasis, would have been  prefixed , as in Hebrews 12:4 ; οὔπω πειρασμὸς ὑμᾶς εἴληφεν … Then again (2) this restricts the sense of πειρασμός to  persecution , which it here does not mean, but  solicitation to sin , in accordance with the whole context.
	 εἴληφεν  has taken you , not ἔλαβεν , ‘took you,’ shews that the temptation was  still soliciting them.
	 ἀνθρώπινος ] not, as Piscator, al., and Olsh.,  originating with man , as opposed to other temptations originating with the devil, or even with God’s Providence: but, as Chrys.: ξύμμετρος , opposed to ὑπὲρ ὃ δύνασθε ,  adapted to man.
	 πιστός ] He has  entered into a covenant with you by  calling you: if He suffered temptation beyond your power to overcome you, He would be violating that covenant. Compare 1 Thessalonians 5:24 , πιστὸς ὁ καλῶν ὑμᾶς , ὃς καὶ ποιήσει .
	 ὅς = ὅτι οὗτος .
	 ποιήσει  …   καὶ τὴν ἔκβ ]. Then God  makes the temptation too: arranges it in His Providence, and in His mercy will ever set open a door for escape.
	 τὴν ἔκβ .] the [  way to ]  escape , i.e.  which belongs to the particular temptation : τὴν ἀπαλλαγὴν τοῦ πειρασμοῦ , Theophyl.
	 τοῦ δύν .]  in order that you may be able to bear (it) : obs., not, ‘will  remove the temptation:’ but, ‘will make an escape  simultaneously with the temptation , to encourage you  to bear up against it .’