 16. ] The analogy of the  Lord’s Supper , which, in both its parts, is a  participation in Christ. The stress throughout to 1 Corinthians 10:20 , is on  κοινωνία , and  κοινωνοί .
	 τὸ ποτήριον is the accus., by attr. corresponding to  τὸν ἄρτον .
	 τὸ π  .   τῆς εὐλ .] i.e. ὃ εὐλογοῦντες κατασκευάζομεν (Œc [44] ), as explained immediately by ὃ εὐλογοῦμεν ,  over which we speak a blessing , the Christian form of the Jewish כּוֹם בְּרָכָה , the cup in the Passover over which thanks were offered after the feast,  in blessing of which cup , our Lord instituted this part of the ordinance: see Lightfoot in loc., and note on the history in Matthew 26:0 . The rendering of Olsh., al., the  cup which brings a blessing , is wrong, as being against this analogy.
	 [44] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 ὃ εὐλογοῦμεν ]  which we bless , i.e. consecrate with a prayer of thanksgiving: not, as Erasmus, Beza, ‘  quod cum gratiarum actione sumimus ’ ( περὶ οὗ εὐχαριστοῦμεν ). Observe, the first person plural is the  same throughout : the blessing of the cup, and the breaking of the bread, the acts of consecration, were  not the acts of the minister, as by any authority peculiar to himself, but only as the representative of the οἱ πάντες ,  the whole Christian congregation (and so even Estius, but evading the legitimate inference). The figment of sacerdotal consecration of the elements by transmitted power, is as alien from the apostolic writings as it is from the spirit of the Gospel.
	 κοινωνία ]  the participation (i.e. that whereby the act of participation takes place)  of the Blood of Christ ? The strong literal sense must here be held fast, as constituting the very kernel of the Apostle’s argument. The wine  is the Blood , the bread  is the Body , of Christ. (In  what sense the Blood and the Body, does not belong to the present argument.)  We receive into us, make by assimilation parts of ourselves, that wine, that bread: we  become therefore, by participation of that Bread,  one Bread , i.e. ONE BODY: hence the close and literal participation in and with Christ. If we are to render this ἐστιν ,  represents or  symbolizes , the argument is made void. On the other band it is painful to allude to, though necessary to reprobate, the caricature of this real union with Christ which is found in the gross materialism of transubstantiation. See further on ch. 1 Corinthians 11:26-27 .
	 ὃν κλῶμεν ] probably already the  breaking of the bread in the communion was part of the act of consecration, and done after the example of our Lord in its institution. See ch. 1 Corinthians 11:24 ; Acts 2:42 ; Acts 20:7 ; Acts 20:11 . For the rest, see above.