 17. ]  Because we, the (assembled)  many, are one bread (by the assimilation of that one bread partaken: not ‘one loaf’),  one Body (by the κοινωνία of the Body of Christ, of which that bread is the vehicle);  for the whole of us partake of that one bread . Meyer and De Wette and many other Commentators take εἷς ἄρτος alone, ‘  there is one bread ;’ and impugn the interpretation given above by saying that it is evidently not so, because the following clause uses ἄρτος in its literal sense. But it is for  that very reason , that I adhere to the interpretation given. By partaking of that bread, we become, not figuratively but literally,  one bread : it passes into the substance of our bodies, and there is in every one who partakes, a portion of himself which  is that bread . The  bread which was  before , is  now ἡμεῖς . But that loaf, broken and blessed, is the medium of κοινωνία of the Body of Christ; we then, being that one bread, are  one Body; for we all partake of that one bread. So that there is no logical inversion, and no arguing (Meyer) from the  effect to the  cause . The argument is a very simple and direct one; the bread is the Body of Christ; we partake of the bread: therefore we partake of the Body of Christ. Of these propositions, the conclusion is implied in the form of a question in 1 Corinthians 10:16 ; the minor stated in the latter clause of 1 Corinthians 10:17 ; its connexion with the major producing the conclusion given in the former clause ὅτι … ἐσμέν . The major itself, τοῦτό ἐστιν τὸ σῶμά μου , is suppressed, as axiomatic. The above remarks shew also the untenableness of the rendering of Calv., Beza, Bengel, al., “  because there is one bread (antecedent),  we being many are one body ” (consequent): for this would parenthesize 1 Corinthians 10:17 , and take it altogether out of the argument, giving it a sense which, as occurring here, would be vapid “obiter hoc dicit, ut intelligant Corinthii, externa quoque professione colendam esse illam unitatem quæ nobis est cum Christo,” Calv. Meyer objects to rendering ἐκ τοῦ ἑνὸς ἄρτου μετέχομεν ,  we partake of that one bread : saying rightly that μετέχω is always found with a gen. or an acc., never with ἐκ . He would render,  for we all, by means of that one bread, partake (viz. in the one Body: so μετέχ . is absol. 1Co 10:30 ). This is exceedingly harsh, besides as it seems to me (see above) confusing the whole argument: and we may safely say would not have been thus expressed by the Apostle, leaving the most important words to be supplied from the context, but would have been οἱ γὰρ πάντες ἐν τῷ ἑνὶ ἄρτῳ τοῦ ἑνὸς σώματος μετέχομεν . The usage of ἐκ , too, would, though perhaps  barely allowable , be very harsh, especially when it is remembered that the ἄρτος is not (by the hypothesis) the ultimate, but only the mediate object of participation. None of the examples given in Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 230, which Meyer quotes for his sense of ἐκ , seem to justify it. They apply mostly to the subjective source, ἐκ προνοίας , or the circumstances originating, ὡς ἐκ τούτων , not to the medial instrument, which it appears to me would require διὰ . (In a subsequent edn. Meyer seems to have slightly modified his view, rendering,  for from the one bread we all receive a portion .)