 4. ] It is hardly possible here, without doing violence to the words and construction, to deny that the Apostle has adopted the tradition current among the Jews, that the  rock followed the Israelites in their journeyings, and gave forth water all the way. Thus Rabbi Solomon on Numbers 20:2 ; “Per omnes quadraginta annos erat iis puteus” (Lightf.): and Schöttgen cites from the Bammidbar Rabba, “Quomodo comparatus fuit ille puteus (de quo Num 21:16 )? Resp. Fuit sicut petra, sicut alveus apum, et globosus, et volutavit se, et ivit cum ipsis in itineribus ipsorum. Cum vexilla castra ponerent, et tabernaculum staret, illa petra venit, et consedit in atrio tentorii. Tunc venerunt Principes, et juxta illum steterunt, dicentes,’ Ascende, putee, &c.’ ( Num 21:17 ) et ascendit.” See other testimonies in Schöttgen.
	The only ways of escaping this inference are, (1) by setting aside the  natural sense altogether, as Chrys. ( οὐ γὰρ ἡ τῆς πέτρας φύσις τὸ ὕδωρ ἠφίει , … ἀλλ ʼ ἑτέρα τις πέτρα πνευματικὴ τὸ πᾶν εἰργάζετο , τουτέστιν ὁ χριστός , ὁ παρὼν αὐτοῖς πανταχοῦ , καὶ πάντα θαυματουργῶν · διὰ γὰρ τοῦτο εἶπεν , ἀκολουθούσης . p. 203), Theophyl., or (2) by taking πέτρα = τὸ ἐκ τῆς πέτρας ὕδωρ , as Erasm., Beza, Grot., Estius, Lightf. and so Calvin, who says: “Quomodo, inquiunt, rupes quæ suo loco fixa stetit, comitata esset Israelitas? Quasi vero non palam sit sub petræ voce notari aquæ fluxum, qui nunquam populum deseruit.” But against both of these we have the plain assertion, representing matter of physical fact, ἔπινον ἐκ πνευματικῆς ἀκολουθούσης πέτρας ,  they drank from a (or, after a preposition,  the ) [  spiritual, or]  miraculous rock which followed them : and I cannot consent to depart from what appears to me the only admissible sense of these words. How extensively the traditionary reliques of unrecorded Jewish history were adopted by apostolic men under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the apology of Stephen may bear witness.
	 ἡ πέτρα δὲ ἦν ὁ χριστός ]  But (distinction between what  they saw in the rock and what  we see in it: they drank from it and knew not its dignity:  but  the Rock was Christ . In these words there appear to be  three allusions : (1) to  the ideas of the Jews themselves : so the Targum on Isaiah 16:1 ; “Afferent dona Messiæ Israelitarum, qui robustus crit, propterea quod in deserto fuit RUPES ECCLESIA ZIONIS:” so also in Wis 10:15 ff., the σοφία θεοῦ (see note on Joh 1:1 ) is said to have been present in Moses, to have led them through the wilderness, &c. That the MESSIAH, the ANGEL OF THE COVENANT, was present with the church of the Fathers, and that His upholding power was manifested in miraculous interferences for their welfare, was a truth acknowledged no less by the Jew than by the Christian. (2) To  the frequent use of this appellation , A ROCK, for the God of Israel. See,  inter alia , Deuteronomy 32:4 ; Deuteronomy 32:15 ; Deuteronomy 32:18 ; Deuteronomy 32:30-31 ; Deuteronomy 32:37 ; 1Sa 2:2 ; 2 Samuel 22:2 , and passim; 2 Samuel 23:3 , &c. Psalms passim, and especially Psalms 78:20 , compared with Psalms 78:35 ; see also Romans 9:33 ; 1 Peter 2:8 . Hence it became more natural to apply the term  directly to Christ , as the ever-present God of Israel. (3) To  the sacramental import of the water which flowed from the rock, which is the point here immediately in the Apostle’s mind. As well in sacramental import as in upholding physical agency,  that rock was Christ . The miraculous (spiritual) food was (sacramentally) the flesh of Christ: the miraculous (spiritual) drink was the blood of Christ: so that the Jews’ miraculous supplies of food and drink were  sacramentally significant of the Body and Blood of Christ , in kind analogous to the two great parts of the Christian Supper of the Lord.
	In the  contents prefixed to the chapters in the E. V., we read as the import of these verses, “  The sacraments of the Jews are types of ours ,” which though perhaps correctly meant, is liable to be erroneously understood; inasmuch as no sacramental ordinance can be a  type of another , but all alike, though in different degrees of approximation, and by different representations,  types of HIM, who is the fountain of all grace. The difference between their case and ours, is  generally , that they were unconscious of the sacramental import, whereas we are conscious of it: “they knew not that I healed them,” Hosea 11:3 ; and  in this particular case , that Christ has come to us “not by water only, but by water and blood,” 1 John 5:6 ; HIS DEATH having invested our sacramental ordinance with another and more deeply significant character. To enter more minutely into the import of the words, ‘  the rock was Christ ,’ would be waste of time and labour. The above reasons abundantly justify the assertion, without either pressing the verb ἦν beyond its ordinary acceptation, or presuming to fix on the Apostle a definiteness of meaning which his argument does not require. See in Meyer’s note an example of the proceeding which I blame.