 9. ]  ἐκπειρ .  tempt beyond endurance , ‘tempt thoroughly.’ Similarly ἐξαρνεῖσθαι , ‘to persist in denying,’ al., as Suidas, ἡ γὰρ  ἐξ πρόθεσις , ἐπίτασιν δηλοῖ . See Musgr. on Eurip. Iph. Taur. 249, and cf. ἐκπληρόω , Acts 13:32 . So also in Latin, ‘oro’ and ‘exoro,’ &c.
	 τὸν κύριον ] There may be two views taken of the internal evidence concerning the reading here. On the one hand it may be said that  χριστόν being the original reading, it was variously altered to κύριον or θεόν by those who found a difficulty in supposing that the Jews of old tempted  Christ , or even by those who wished to obliterate this assertion of His præ-existence: and so De Wette, al. On the other it may be said, that  κύριον being the original, it was variously explained in the margin χριστόν and θεόν , as is often the case: and so Meyer. On comparing these, it seems to me that the latter alternative is the more probable. The inference that τινες αὐτῶν ἐπείρασαν requires τὸν χριστόν as an object, is not a necessary one, and hardly likely to have produced the alteration, closely connected as τ . χρ . is with the verb in the first person. I have therefore with Meyer adopted the reading κύριον .
	The  tempting of the Lord was, as on the other occasions alluded to Numbers 14:22 , where it is said that they  tempted God ten times , the  daring Him, in trying His patience by rebellious conduct and sin . Cf. the similar use of πειράζω Acts 5:9 ; Acts 15:10 . And he warns the Corinthians, that they should not in like manner provoke God by their sins and their partaking with idols. Chrys., Theophyl., and Œc [43] understand the temptation of God to be the  seeking for signs : Theodoret, to be  in danger arising from those who spoke with different tongues , ἐπείραζον δὲ κ . οἱ ταῖς διαφόροις κεχρημένοι γλώτταις , κατὰ φιλοτιμίαν μᾶλλον ἢ χρείαν ταύτας ἐπ ʼ ἐκκλησίας προσφέροντες .
	 [43] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 ὑπὸ τῶν ὄφεων ,  by the (well-known)  serpents . The art. is so often  omitted after a preposition, that wherever it is  expressed , we may be sure there was a reason for it.