 1.   μετὰ ταῦτα ] Lücke remark that when John wishes to indicate immediate succession, he uses μετὰ τοῦτο , ch. John 2:12 ; John 11:7 ; John 11:11 ; John 19:28 : when mediate, after an interval, μετὰ ταῦτα , ch. John 3:22 ; John 5:14 ; John 6:1 ; John 7:1 ; John 19:38 . So that apart from other considerations which would lead us to the same conclusion, we may infer that some interval has elapsed since the last verse of ch. 4.
	 ἑορτὴ τ  .   Ἰουδ  . ] Few points have been more controverted, than the question,  what this feast was . I will give the principal views, and then state my own conclusion. (I have abridged the following statement principally from Lücke’s note, ii. 1 15.) (1) Irenæus understands it (Hær. ii. 22. 3, p. 147) to be the  second Passover of our Lord’s ministry . Origen (whose commentary on this chapter is lost) mentions this view (tom. xiii. 39, vol. iv. p. 250), but apparently does not approve it. (MS. [71] reads ην εορτη των αζυμων κ . τ . λ .) This is the view of Luther, Calovius, Scaliger, Grotius, Lightfoot, Lampe, Kuinoel. (2) Cyril Alex [72] and Chrysostom think it to be  the Pentecost; similarly Euthym [73] and Theophyl. This opinion prevailed in the Greek Church; and has been defended by Erasmus, Calvin, Beza, &c., and more recently by Bengel in his Harmony. (3) Kepler first suggested the idea that it might be  the feast of Purim , (Esther 9:21 ; Esther 9:26 ,) almost immediately preceding the Passover (the 14th and 15th of Adar). This was adopted by Petavius, and has been the general view of the modern chronologists. So Lamy (Apparat. Chronol.), Hug, Lücke (1st edn.), Olshausen, Meyer, Wieseler, Stier, Neander, Winer. (4) The  feast of Tabernacles has been suggested by Cocceius, and is supported by one ms. (131, which adds ἡ σκηνοπηγία .) (5) Kepler and Petavius thought it also possible that the  feast of Dedication (see ch. Joh 10:22 ) might be meant.
	 [71] Codex Tischendorfianus III., now in the Bodleian (Auct. T. Infra I. 1). Contains the whole of the Gospels of St. Luke and St. John. Collated by Tischendorf and Tregelles. Ascribed to the  eighth or  ninth century . An early cursive copy of Matt. and Mark taken by Tischendorf to St. Petersburg, in 1859, is said by him (Notitia Cod. Sinaitici, p. 58) to be part of the same codex.
	 [72] Cyril Alex. Cyril, Bp. of Alexandria, 412 444
	 [73] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	So that  almost every Jewish feast finds some supporters.
	I believe with Lücke (3rd edn.), De Wette, and Tholuck,  that we cannot with any probability gather what feast it was . Seeing as I do no distinct datum given in ch. John 4:35 , nor again in ch. John 6:1 , and finding nothing in this chapter to determine the nature of this feast, I cannot attach any weight to most of the elaborate chronological arguments which have been raised on the subject. It can hardly have been a Passover, both on account of the omission of the article before ἑορτή (see ch. Joh 6:4 ), and because if so, we should have an interval of a whole year between this chapter and the next, which is not probable. Nor can it have been the Dedication, in the winter; for then the multitude of sick would have hardly been waiting in the porches of Bethesda. The feast of Purim would nearest agree with the subsequent events; and it seems as if our Lord did not go up to Jerusalem at the Passover next following (ch. John 6:4 ; Joh 7:1 ), so that no difficulty would be created by the proximity of the two feasts, unless, with De Wette, we believe that the interval was too little for what is related ch. Joh 6:1-3 to have happened. But it may be doubted, (1) whether it was a general practice to go up to Jerusalem at the Purim: (2) whether our Lord would be likely to observe it, even if it was.
	No reason need be given why John does not name the feast; it is quite in accordance with his practice of mentioning nothing that does not concern his subject-matter. Thus the Passover is mentioned ch. John 2:13 , because of the  buying and selling in the temple; again, ch. John 6:4 , to account for the  great multitude , and as eminently suiting (see notes) the subject of His discourse there; the feast of Tabernacles, ch. John 7:2 , because of the practice alluded to by our Lord in John 5:37 ; that of the Dedication, ch. John 10:22 , to account for His being in Solomon’s porch because it was winter; but in this chapter, where there is nothing alluding to the time or nature of the feast, it is not specified.
	 Ἰησοῦς and probably His disciples: for the same expression is used ch. John 2:13 , whereas we find, ch. John 3:22 , that His disciples were with Him: compare also ch. Joh 7:10 and ch. John 9:2 .