 37 39. ] The connexion of these verses has been much disputed. I believe it will be found to be this: ‘The works of which I have spoken, are only  indirect testimonies; the Father Himself, who sent Me, has given  direct testimony concerning Me. Now that testimony cannot be derived by you, nor any man, by direct  communication with Him; for ye have never heard His voice nor seen His shape. (Or perhaps have not heard His voice, as your fathers did from Sinai, nor seen His visional appearance, as the Prophets did.) Nor ( Joh 5:38 ),  in your case , has it been given by that  inward witness (ch. John 3:33 : 1Jn 4:13-14 ) which those have (and had in a measure, even before the gift of the Spirit see inter alli [85] ., Psa 51:11 ) in whom His word abides; for ye have not His word abiding in you, not believing on Him whom He hath sent. Yet ( Joh 5:39 ) there is  a form of this direct testimony of the Father, accessible even to you; ‘  search the Scriptures ,’ &c. Chrysostom, Euthymius, Lampe, Bengel, &c., understand  φωνή to refer to  the voice at our Lord’s baptism: but, as Lücke observes,  πώποτε forbids this. I may also add that the perfect,  ἀκηκόατε  , excludes it. Had reference been to a  distinct event , it must have been ἠκούσατε , and (Lücke) τὴν φωνήν .
	 [85] alli = some cursive mss.
	Observe that the testimony in the Scriptures is not the only, nor the chief one,  intended in John 5:37 , but (as De Wette well maintains) the direct testimony  in the heart of the believer; which, as the Jews  have not , they are directed to  another form of the Father’s testimony,  that in the Scriptures .
	 ἐραυνᾶτε  , either  indicative (Cyril, Erasm., Beza, Lampe, Bengel, Kuinoel, Lücke, Tholuck, Olshausen, De Wette), ‘  Ye search the Scriptures, for ye believe ye have &c., and they are they that testify of Me, and (  yet , Joh 5:40 )  ye will not come to Me that ye may have life: ’ or  imperative (Chrys., Theophyl., Euthym [86] , August., Luther, Calvin, Wets [87] ., Paulus, Stier), in which case generally a period has been placed after  ἐμοῦ  , and a fresh sentence begins at  καὶ οὐ θέλ  .
	 [86] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [87] Wetstein.
	I believe the  imperative sense only will be found to cohere with the previous verses: see above, where I have given the context. And no other sense will suit the word ἐραυνᾶτε , which cannot be used, as in the indicative it would be, with blame attached to it, ‘  ye make nice and frivolous search into the letter of Scripture; ’ but, as ἐξερευν . in ref. Ps., implies  a thorough search (see also 1Pe 1:11 )  into the contents and spirit of Scripture. Besides, the emphatic position of ἐραυνᾶτε before τὰς γραφάς , while it does not absolutely necessitate the imper. sense, makes it much more probable than the indic., which would be conveyed by τὰς γρ . ἐραυνᾶτε . Luthardt (ii. 21) remarks, that the almost unanimous verdict of the  Greek Fathers (Cyril however is a remarkable exception) for the imper. decides him in its favour.
	 ὅτι ὑμ  .   δοκ  . ]  Ye (emphatic)  imagine that  in them (emphatic)  ye have eternal life (Schöttgen quotes testimonies from the Rabbis: “  Qui acquirit sibi verba legis, is acquirit sibi vitam æternam, &c .”); but they, like all other secondary ordinances, have a spiritual end in view, and that end is to testify, from first to last (it is  their office , ἐκεῖναί εἰσιν  αἱ μαρτυροῦσαι ) of ME.