 24. ] What follows, to Joh 5:30 incl., is an expansion of the two assertions in John 5:21-22 , the  ζωοποιεῖν and the  κρίνειν  , intimately bound up as they are together. There is a parallelism in Joh 5:24-25 which should be noticed for the right understanding of the words. ὁ τὸν λόγον μου  ἀκούων in one, answers to οἱ νεκροὶ  ἀκούσονται τῆς φωνῆς τοῦ υἱοῦ τοῦ θεοῦ in the other. It is a kind of  hearing which awakens to life, one accompanied by πιστεύειν τῷ πέμψαντί με . And this last is not barely ‘Him who sent Me,’ but Him,  the very essence of belief in Whom is in this , THAT HE SENT ME (see ch. Joh 12:44 ). And the  dative here after πιστεύω expresses that belief in the  testimony of God that He hath sent His Son, which is dwelt on so much 1 John 5:9-12 , where, John 5:10 , we have the same ὁ μὴ πιστεύων τῷ θεῷ .
	 ἔχει ζ  .   αἰ  . ] So 1 John 5:12-13 . The  πιστεύων and the  ἔχει ζ  .   αἰ  . are  commensurate: where the faith is, the possession of eternal life is: and when the one remits, the other is forfeited. But here the faith is set before us as an  enduring faith, and its effects described  in their completion (see Eph 1:19-20 ).
	 εἰς κρίσιν οὐκ ἔρχεται  , κρίσις being the  separation , the effect of which is to gather out of the Kingdom  all that offendeth; and thus regarding especially the  damnatory part of judgment, he who believes  comes not into , has no concern with, κρίσις . Compare Psa 142:2 LXX. The reckoning which ends with εὖ ἀγαθὲ δοῦλε , is not κρίσις :  the reward is of free grace . In this sense, the believers in Christ will not be judged according to their works: they are justified before God by faith, and  by God θεὸς ὁ δικαιῶν , τίς ὁ κατακρίνων ; Their ‘passage over’ from death into life  has already taken place , from the state of spiritual death into that ζωὴ αἰώνιος , which in their believing state they ἔχουσι already. It is to be observed that our Lord speaks in very similar terms of the unbelieving being  condemned already , in ch. John 3:18 .
	The  perfect sense of  μεταβέβηκεν must not be weakened nor explained away, see ref.