 2. ]  ἔστιν has been thought by Bengel and others to import that John wrote his Gospel  before the destruction of Jerusalem . But this must not be pressed. He might have spoken in the present without meaning to be literally accurate at the moment when he was writing (see Prolegg. to John, § iv. 6).
	 ἐπὶ τῇ προβ  . , probably  near the sheep-gate , mentioned by Nehemiah, see reff. The situation of this gate is unknown; it is traditionally supposed to be the same with that now called St. Stephen’s gate; but inaccurately, for no wall existed in that quarter till the time of Agrippa (Robinson, i. 472). Eusebius, Jerome, and the Itinerarium Hieros. speak of a προβατικὴ κολυμβήθρα , so also  probatica piscina , Vulg.
	The reading λεγομένη would be more usual; perhaps  ἐπιλ  . implies that it had another name.
	 Βηθεσδά = Syr [74] . בֵּית חֶסְדָּא  , the house (place)  of mercy, or  of grace. Its present situation is very uncertain. Robinson established by personal inspection the fact of the subterranean connexion of the pool of Siloam (see ch. John 9:7 , note; and the supplementary note at the end of this volume) and that called the Fountain of the Virgin (i. 501 ff.); and has made it probable that the Fountain under the grand Mosk is also connected with them (i. 509 ff.); in fact that all these are but one and the same spring. (See also some interesting particulars respecting an attempt made subsequently to prove this connexion, and mention of a fourth fountain with the same peculiar taste as the water of Siloam, in Williams’s Holy City, pp. 381 ff.) Now this spring, as he himself witnessed, (i. 506,) is an  intermittent one, as indeed had been reported before by Jerome (on Isa 8:6 ), Prudentius (in Trench, Mir. p. 247, edn. 2), William of Tyre, and others. There might have been then, it is obvious, some artificially constructed basin in connexion with this spring, the site and memory of which have perished, which would present the phænomenon here described: see below.
	 [74] The Peschito (or simple) Syriac version. Supposed to have been made as early as the  second century . The text as edited is in a most unsatisfactory state.
	The spot now traditionally known as Bethesda is a part of the fosse round the fort or tower Antonia, an immense reservoir or trench, seventy-five feet deep. But, as Robinson observes (i. 489), there is not the slightest evidence that can identify it with the Bethesda of the N.T.
	This pool is not mentioned by Josephus.
	 πέντε στοὰς ἔχ  . ] Probably these were for the shelter of the sick persons, and were arches or porticos, opening upon and surrounding the reservoir. στοά ἐστιν ἡ παρ ʼ ἡμῖν λεγομένη καμάρα , ἢ καὶ ὁ θόλος . Euthym [75]
	 [75] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116