19-23. Confirming  :-, by showing the contrariety between the works of the flesh
	and the fruit of the Spirit. 
	manifest—The hidden
	fleshly principle betrays itself palpably by its works, so
	that these are not hard to discover, and leave no doubt that they
	come not from the Spirit. 
	which are these—Greek,
	"such as," for instance. 
	Adultery—omitted in the
	oldest manuscripts. 
	lasciviousness—rather,
	"wantonness" petulance, capricious insolence; it may
	display itself in "lasciviousness," but not necessarily or
	constantly so (Mark 7:21; Mark 7:22,
	where it is not associated with fleshly lusts) [TRENCH].
	"Works" (in the plural) are attributed to the "flesh,"
	because they are divided, and often at variance with one another, and
	even when taken each one by itself, betray their fleshly origin. But
	the "fruit of the Spirit" (Mark 7:22- :) is singular, because, however manifold the results, they
	form one harmonious whole. The results of the flesh are not dignified
	by the name "fruit"; they are but works (Ephesians 5:9;
	Ephesians 5:11). He enumerates those
	fleshly "works" (committed against our neighbor, against
	God, and against ourselves) to which the Galatians were most prone
	(the Celts have always been prone to disputations and internal
	strifes): and those manifestations of the fruit of the Spirit
	most needed by them (Galatians 5:13;
	Galatians 5:15). This passage shows
	that "the flesh" does not mean merely sensuality, as
	opposed to spirituality: for "divisions" in the
	catalogue here do not flow from sensuality. The identification of
	"the natural (Greek, 'animal-souled') man,"
	with the "carnal" or fleshly man (Galatians 5:15- :), shows that "the flesh" expresses human nature
	as estranged from God. TRENCH
	observes, as a proof of our fallen state, how much richer is every
	vocabulary in words for sins, than in those for graces. Paul
	enumerates seventeen "works of the flesh," only nine
	manifestations of "the fruit of the Spirit" (compare Galatians 5:15- :).