11. Translate, "If I am
	still preaching (as I did before conversion) circumcision, why am I
	still persecuted?" The Judaizing troubler of the Galatians had
	said, "Paul himself preaches circumcision," as is shown by
	his having circumcised Timothy ( :-; compare also  :-). Paul replies by anticipation of their objection, As
	regards myself, the fact that I am still persecuted by the Jews shows
	plainly that I do not preach circumcision; for it is just
	because I preach Christ crucified, and not the Mosaic law, as the
	sole ground of justification, that they persecute me. If for
	conciliation he lived as a Jew among the Jews, it was in accordance
	with his principle enunciated (1 Corinthians 7:18;
	1 Corinthians 7:20; 1 Corinthians 9:20).
	Circumcision, or uncircumcision, are things indifferent in
	themselves: their lawfulness or unlawfulness depends on the animus
	of him who uses them. The Gentile Galatians' animus in circumcision
	could only be their supposition that it influenced favorably their
	standing before God. Paul's living as a Gentile among Gentiles,
	plainly showed that, if he lived as a Jew among Jews, it was not that
	he thought it meritorious before God, but as a matter indifferent,
	wherein he might lawfully conform as a Jew by birth to those
	with whom he was, in order to put no needless stumbling-block to the
	Gospel in the way of his countrymen. 
	then—Presuming that I
	did so, "then," in that case, "the offense of
	(stumbling-block, 1 Corinthians 1:23
	occasioned to the Jews by) the cross has become done away." Thus
	the Jews' accusation against Stephen was not that he preached Christ
	crucified, but that "he spake blasphemous words against this
	holy place and the law." They would, in some measure,
	have borne the former, if he had mixed with it justification in part
	by circumcision and the law, and if he had, through the medium of
	Christianity, brought converts to Judaism. But if justification in
	any degree depended on legal ordinances, Christ's crucifixion in that
	degree was unnecessary, and could profit nothing (Galatians 5:2;
	Galatians 5:4). Worldly Wiseman, of the
	town of Carnal Policy, turns Christian out of the narrow way of the
	Cross, to the house of Legality. But the way to it was up a mountain,
	which, as Christian advanced, threatened to fall on him and crush
	him, amidst flashes of lightning from the mountain [BUNYAN,
	Pilgrim's Progress] (Galatians 5:4- :).