 23.   ὅπως πληρωθῇ ] These words refer to the  divine purpose in the event, not to that of Joseph in bringing it about.
	 τὸ ῥηθὲν δ  .   τ  .   πρ  . ] These words are no where verbatim to be found, nor is this asserted by the Evangelist; but that the sense of  the prophets is such. In searching for such sense, the following hypotheses have been made none of them satisfactory: (1) Euthymius says, ποῖοι προφῆται τοῦτο εἶπον , μὴ ζητήσῃς · οὐχ εὑρήσεις γάρ · διότι πολλὰ τῶν προφητικῶν βιβλίων ἀπώλοντο , τὰ μὲν ἐν ταῖς αἰχμαλωσίαις , τὰ δὲ καὶ ἐξ ἀμελείας τῶν Ἑβραίων , τινὰ δὲ καὶ ἐκ κακουργίας . So also Chrys., Theophyl., Le Clerc, &c. But the expression διὰ τ . πρ . seems to have a wider bearing than is thus implied. (2) The general sense of the prophets is, that Christ should be a  despised person, as the inhabitants of Nazareth were ( Joh 1:47 ). So Michaelis, Paulus, Rosenm., Kuin., Olsh., &c. But surely this part of the Messiah’s prophetic character is not general or prominent enough, in the absence of any direct verbal connexion with the word in our text, to found such an interpretation on: nor, on the other hand, does it appear that an inhabitant of Nazareth, as such, was despised; only that the obscurity of the town was, both by Nathanael and the Jews, contrasted with our Lord’s claims. (3) The  Nazarites of old were men holy and consecrated to God; e.g. Samson ( Jdg 13:5 ), Samuel ( 1Sa 1:11 ), and to this the words are referred by Tert [14] , Jerome, Erasm., Beza, Calvin, Grot., Wets [15] ., a [16] . But ( α ) our Lord did not (like John the Baptist) lead a life in accordance with the Nazarite vow, but drank wine, &c., and set himself in marked contrast with John in this very particular (ch. Mat 11:18-19 ); and ( β ) the word for  Nazarite is Ναζίρ (Judges 13:5 [17] ), or Ναζειραῖος (ib. and Matthew 16:18 [18] , Lam 4:7 ), whereas this, denoting an  inhabitant of Nazareth , is Ναζωραῖος always in the N.T., except in Mark (Mark 1:24 ; Mark 10:47 ; Mark 14:67 ; Mar 16:6 ), and Luke 4:43 (Luke 18:37 ; Luk 24:19 v. r.), where it is Ναζαρηνός . (4) There may be an allusion to נֵצֶר , a branch, by which name our Lord is called in Isaiah 11:1 , and from which word it appears that the name Nazareth is probably derived. So ‘  eruditi Hebræi ,’ in Jerome on Isaiah 11:1 , and Pisc., Casaub., Fritz., De Wette, &c. But this word is only used in the place cited; and in by far the more precise prophecies of the Branch, Zechariah 3:8 ; Zechariah 6:12 ; Jeremiah 23:5 ; Jeremiah 33:15 , and Isaiah 4:2 , the word צֶמַח is used. I leave it, therefore, as an unsolved difficulty.
	 [14]  Tertullian , 200
	 [15] Wetstein.
	 [16] alii = some cursive mss.
	 [17] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	 [18] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .