 22.   ἀκούσας δέ ] ARCHELAUS was the son of Herod by Malthace, a Samaritan woman: he was brought up at Rome (Jos. B. J. i. 31. 1); succeeded his father, but never had the title of king, only that of Ethnarch, with the government of Idumæa, Judæa, and Samaria, the rest of his father’s dominions being divided between his brothers Philip and Antipas. (Jos. Antt. xvii. 11. 4.) But, (1) very likely the word βασιλεύω is here used in the wider meaning: (2) Archelaus did, in the beginning of his reign, give out and regard himself as king: τὸ πλῆθος … εὐχαριστεῖ … τῆς πρὸς αὐτὸν θεραπείας ὡς πρὸς βέβαιον ἤδη βασιλέα (Jos. B. J. ii. 1.1): (3) in ch. Matthew 14:9 , Herod the Tetrarch is called ὁ βασιλεύς .
	In the ninth year of his government Archelaus was dethroned, οὐ μόνον Ἰουδαίοις , ἀλλά καὶ Σαμαρεῦσι χρησάμενος ὠμῶς , πρεσβευσαμένων ἑκατέρων κατ ʼ αὐτοῦ πρὸς Καίσαρα , … φυγαδεύεται μὲν εἰς Βιένναν , πόλις τῆς Γαλατίας … i.e. Vienne, in Gaul. (ibid. ii. 7. 3.)
	 ἀνεχώρησεν εἰς τ  .   μ  .   τ  .   Γαλ  . ] This account gives rise to some difficulty as compared with St. Luke’s history. It would certainly, on a first view, appear that this Evangelist was not aware that Nazareth had been before this the abode of Joseph and Mary. And it is no real objection to this, that he elsewhere calls Nazareth τὴν πατρίδα αὐτοῦ , ch. Matthew 13:54 ; Matthew 13:57 . It is perhaps just possible that St. Matthew, writing for Jews, although well aware of the previous circumstances, may not have given them a place in his history, but made the birth at Bethlehem the prominent point, seeing that his account begins at the birth (ch. Mat 1:18 ), and does not localize what took place before it, which is merely inserted as subservient to that great leading event. If this view be correct, all we could expect is, that his narrative would contain  nothing inconsistent with the facts related in Luke; which we find to be the case. I should prefer, however, believing, as more consistent,  in foro conscientiæ , with the fair interpretation of our text, that St. Matthew himself was not aware of the events related in Luke 1:2 , and wrote under the impression that Bethlehem was the original dwelling-place of Joseph and Mary. Certainly,  had we only his Gospel , this inference from it would universally be made.
	 ἀνεχώρησεν must not be pressed (as Wordsw., a [13] .) into the service of reconciling the two accounts by being rendered ‘  returned; ’ for the same word is used ( Mat 2:14 ) of the journey to Egypt.
	 [13] alii = some cursive mss.