 1.   Βηθ  .   τῆς Ἰουδ  . ] There was another Bethlehem in the tribe of Zebulun, near the sea of Galilee, Joshua 19:15 . The name Bethlehem-Judah is used, Judges 17:7-9 ; 1 Samuel 17:12 . Another name for our Bethlehem was Ephrath, Genesis 35:19 ; Genesis 48:7 ; or Ephrata, Micah 5:2 . It was six Roman miles to the south of Jerusalem, and was known as ‘the city of David,’ the origin of his family, Ruth 1:1 ; Ruth 1:19 .
	 ἐν ἡμέραις Ἡρώδου ] HEROD THE GREAT, son of Antipater, an Idumean, by an Arabian mother, made king of Judæa on occasion of his having fled to Rome, being driven from his tetrarchy by the pretender Antigonus. (Jos. Antt. xiv. 14. 4.) This title was confirmed to him after the battle of Actium by Octavianus. He sought to strengthen his throne by a series of cruelties and slaughters, putting to death even his wife Mariamne, and his sons Alexander and Aristobulus. His cruelties, and his affectation of Gentile customs, gained for him a hatred among the Jews, which neither his magnificent rebuilding of the temple, nor his liberality in other public works, nor his provident care of the people during a severe famine, could mitigate. He died miserably, five days after he had put to death his son Antipater, in the seventieth year of his age, the thirty-eighth of his reign, and the 750th year of Rome. The events here related took place a short time before his death, but necessarily more than forty days; for he spent the last forty days of his life at Jericho and the baths of Callirrhoe, and therefore would not be found by the magi at Jerusalem. The history of Herod’s reign is contained in Josephus, Antt. books xiv. xvii.
	 μάγοι ἀπὸ ἀνατολῶν ]  Magi from the East; (not ἀπ . ἀνατ . παρεγ .) The absence of the art. after μάγοι is no objection to this interpretation. In fact it could not have been here expressed, because the  concrete noun μάγοι is not  distributed: as neither could it in such an expression as ἄνθρωπος ἐν πνεύματι ἀκαθάρτῳ , Mark 1:23 . In the case of an anarthrous  abstract noun, the art.  may follow , but may also be omitted, cf. χαρὰ ἐν πνεύματι ἁγίῳ , Romans 14:17 ; the distinction being, that χ . ἡ ἐν πν . ἁγ . would specify, among various kinds of joy,  that one , which is ἐν πν . ἁγ ., whereas χ . ἐν πν . ἁγ . merely asserts the fact that the joy  is ἐν πν . ἁγ ., without suggesting any comparison with other kinds. De W. remarks, that if ἀπὸ ἀνατ . belonged to παρεγ ., it would probably  follow that verb, as ἐξ ὁδοῦ does, ref. Luke. I may add, that παραγίνομαι occurs with a preposition and a substantive twelve times in the N.T., and  in no case are they prefixed .
	It would be useless to detail all the conjectures to which this history has given rise. From what has been written on the subject it would appear, (1) That ἀνατολαί may mean either  Arabia, Persia, Chaldæa , or  Parthia, with the provinces adjacent . See Judges 6:3 ; Isaiah 41:2 ; Isaiah 46:11 ; Numbers 23:7 . Philo (leg. ad Caium 34, vol. ii. p. 584) speaks of ἔθνη τὰ ἑῷα καὶ ἡγεμόνες αὐτῶν Παρθυαῖοι . In all these countries there were magi, at least persons who in the wider sense of the word were now known by the name. The words in Mat 2:2 seem to point to some land not very near Judæa, as also the result of Herod’s enquiry as to the date, shewn in ἀπὸ διετοῦς . (2) If we place together ( α ) the prophecy in Numbers 24:17 , which could hardly be unknown to the Eastern astrologers, and ( β ) the assertion of Suetonius (Vesp. c. 4), ‘Percrebuerat Oriente toto  vetus et constants opinio, esse in fatis, ut eo tempore Judæa profecti rerum potirentur,’ and Tacitus, Matthew 2:13 , ‘Pluribus persuasio inerat, antiquis sacerdotum literis contineri, eo ipso tempore fore ut valesceret Oriens, profectique Judæa rerum potirentur,’ and ( γ ) the prophecy, also likely to be known in the East, of the seventy weeks in Daniel 9:24 ; we can, I think, be at no loss to understand how any remarkable celestial appearance at this time should have been interpreted as it was. (3) There is no ground for supposing the magi to have been  three in number (as first, apparently, by Leo the Great, A.D., 450; “tribus igitur magis in regione Orientis stella novæ claritatis apparuit,” Serm. xxxi. 1, vol. i. p. 112), or to have been  kings . The  first tradition appears to have arisen from the number of their gifts; the  second , from the prophecy in Isaiah 60:3 . (Tertullian seems to deduce it from the similar prophecy in Psalms 72:10 . “Reges Arabum et Saba munera afferent illi: nam et magos reges fere habuit Oriens.” Adv. Jude 1:9 , vol. i. p. 619: adv. Marc. iii. 13, p. 339.)