By a new and living way which he hath consecrated for us [ην ενεκαινισεν ημιν οδον προσφατον και ζωσαν] . The A. V. is wrong. Hn which is to be construed with eisodon entrance. Thus : "having boldness for the entrance which he has inaugurated (or opened) for us - a way new and living." For ejnekainisen see on ch. Hebrews 9:18. The way must be opened, for every other way is closed. jEnkainizein in LXX of the inauguration of a house, kingdom, temple, altar. See Deuteronomy 20:5; 1 Samuel 11:14; 1 Kings 8:63; 2 Chronicles 14:8. Prosfaton new, N. T. o. In LXX, see Numbers 6:3; Deuteronomy 32:17; Psalms 80:9; Ecclesiastes 1:9. The derivation appears to be prov near to, and fatov slain (from pemfamai, the perfect of fenein to kill). According to this the original sense would be newly - slain; and the word was used of one so recently dead as to retain the appearance of life : also, generally, of things which have not lost their character or appearance by the lapse of time; of fishes, fruits, oil, etc., which are fresh; of anger which has not had time to cool. Later the meaning was weakened into new. 220 Note that the contrast is not between a new and an old way, but between a new way and no way. So long as the old division of the tabernacle existed, the way into the holiest was not opened, ch. 9 8. Zwsan living. A living way seems a strange expression, but comp. Peter's living stones, 1 Peter 2:5. Christ styles himself both way and life. The bold figure answers to the fact. The new way is through a life to life. Through the veil [δια του καταπετασματος] . The veil of the holy of holies is rent. Christ 's work does not stop short of the believer 's complete access to God himself. That is to say his flesh [τουτ εστιν της σαρκος αυτου] . Const. with veil : the veil which consisted in his flesh. His flesh was the state through which he had to pass before he entered heaven for us. See ch. Hebrews 2:9-18; Hebrews 5:7-9; Hebrews 10:5. When he put off that state, the veil of the temple was rent. He passed through humanity to glory as the forerunner of his people, ch. 6 20.