Let us draw near [προσερχωμεθα] . See on ch. Hebrews 4:16. With a true heart [μετα αληθινης καρδιας] . A right and genuine inward attitude toward God. For the phrase comp. LXX, Isaiah 38:3. N. T. o. For ajlhqinhv see on John 1:9, and comp. Hebrews 8:2; Hebrews 9:24. A true heart is required to enter the true sanctuary. The phrase means more than in sincerity. Sincerity is included, but with it all that enters into a right attitude toward God as revealed in our Great High Priest, - gladness, freedom, enthusiasm, bold appropriation of all the privileges of sonship. In full assurance of faith [εν πληροφορια πιστεως] . Full conviction engendered by faith. See on ch. Hebrews 6:11. Faith ii the basis of all right relation to God. Sprinkled from an evil conscience [ρεραντισμενοι - απο συνειδησεως πονηρας] . This qualification for a right approach to God is stated typologically. As the priests were sprinkled with the sacrificial blood and washed with water before ministering, so do you who have now the privilege and standing of priests in approaching God, draw near, priestlike, as sharers in an economy which purges the conscience (ch. 9 14), having your consciences purged. Your own hearts must experience the effects of the great sacrifice of Christ, - pardon, moral renewal, deliverance from a legal spirit. On the priesthood of believers see 1 Peter 2:5, 1 Peter 2:9; Exodus 19:6; Isaiah 61:6. This idea is dominated in our epistle by that of Christ 's priesthood; but it is not excluded, and is implied throughout. See ch. Hebrews 13:15. For sprinkled, see on 1 Peter 1:2. Bodies washed [λελουσμενοι το σωμα] . Also typological. Most, expositors refer to baptism. The most significant passage in that direction is 1 Peter 3:21; comp. Ephesians 5:26; Titus 3:5. It may be, though I doubt if the idea is emphasized. I incline, with Dr. Bruce, to think that it indicates generally the thoroughness of the cleansing process undergone by one who surrenders himself, soul, body, and spirit, to God.