26. For—in proof that the
	Lord's Supper is "in remembrance" of Him. 
	show—announce
	publicly. The Greek does not mean to dramatically
	represent, but "ye publicly profess each of you, the Lord
	has died FOR ME"
	[WAHL]. This word, as "is"
	in Christ's institution (1 Corinthians 11:24;
	1 Corinthians 11:25), implies not literal
	presence, but a vivid realization, by faith, of Christ in the
	Lord's Supper, as a living person, not a mere abstract dogma, "bone
	of our bone, and flesh of our flesh" (1 Corinthians 11:25- :; compare Genesis 2:23); and
	ourselves "members of His body, of His flesh, and of His bones,"
	"our sinful bodies made clean by His body (once for all
	offered), and our souls washed through His most precious blood"
	[Church of England Prayer Book]. "Show," or
	"announce," is an expression applicable to new
	things; compare "show" as to the Passover (Genesis 2:23- :). So the Lord's death ought always to be fresh in our
	memory; compare in heaven, Revelation 5:6.
	That the Lord's Supper is in remembrance of Him, implies that
	He is bodily absent, though spiritually present, for we cannot be
	said to commemorate one absent. The fact that we not only show the
	Lord's death in the supper, but eat and drink the
	pledges of it, could only be understood by the Jews, accustomed to
	such feasts after propitiatory sacrifices, as implying our personal
	appropriation therein of the benefits of that death. 
	till he come—when there
	shall be no longer need of symbols of His body, the body itself being
	manifested. The Greek expresses the certainly of His
	coming. Rome teaches that we eat Christ present corporally, "till
	He come" corporally; a contradiction in terms. The showbread,
	literally, "bread of the presence," was in the sanctuary,
	but not in the Holiest Place (Revelation 5:6- :); so the Lord's Supper in heaven, the antitype to the
	Holiest Place, shall be superseded by Christ's own bodily presence;
	then the wine shall be drunk "anew" in the Father's
	kingdom, by Christ and His people together, of which heavenly
	banquet, the Lord's Supper is a spiritual foretaste and specimen (Revelation 5:6- :). Meantime, as the showbread was placed anew, every
	sabbath, on the table before the Lord (Revelation 5:6- :); so the Lord's death was shown, or announced
	afresh at the Lord's table the first day of every week in the
	primitive Church. We are now "priests unto God" in the
	dispensation of Christ's spiritual presence, antitypical to the HOLY
	PLACE: the perfect and eternal dispensation, which shall not
	begin till Christ's coming, is antitypical to the HOLIEST
	PLACE, which Christ our High Priest alone in the flesh as yet
	has entered (Hebrews 9:6; Hebrews 9:7);
	but which, at His coming, we, too, who are believers, shall enter
	(Revelation 7:15; Revelation 21:22).
	The supper joins the two closing periods of the Old and the New
	dispensations. The first and second comings are considered as one
	coming, whence the expression is not "return," but "come"
	(compare, however, John 14:3).