Ye are the light of the world,.... What the luminaries, the sun and moon, are in the heavens, with respect to corporal light, that the apostles were in the world with regard to spiritual light; carrying and spreading the light of the Gospel not only in Judea, but all over the world, which was in great darkness of ignorance and error; and through a divine blessing attending their ministry, many were turned from the darkness of Judaism and Gentilism, of sin and infidelity, to the marvellous light of divine grace. The Jews were wont to say, that of the Israelites in general, and particularly of their sanhedrim, and of their learned doctors, what Christ more truly applies here to his apostles; they observe l, that"on the fourth day it was said, "let there be light": which was done with respect to the Israelites, because they are they מאירים לעולם, "which give light to the world", as it is written, Daniel 12:3'And in another place m, say they,"how beautiful are the great ones of the congregation, and the wise men, who sit in the sanhedrim! for they are theyמנהרין לעלמא, "that enlighten the world", the people of the house of Israel.''So. R. Meir, R. Akiba his disciple, and R. Judah the prince, are each of them called n אור העולם, "the light of the world"; as R. Jochanan ben Zaccai is by his disciples, נר עולם, "the lamp of the world" o: and it was usual for the head of a school, or of an university to be styled p נהורא דעלמא, "the light of the world"; but this title much better agrees and suits with the persons Christ gives it to, who, no question, had a view to those exalted characters the Jews gave to their celebrated Rabbins. A city thatis set on an hill cannot be hid; alluding either to Nazareth, where he was educated, and had lately preached, which was built on an hill, from the brow of which the inhabitants sought to have cast him headlong, Luke 4:29 or to Capernaum, which, on account of its height, is said to beexalted unto heaven, Matthew 11:23 or to the city of Jerusalem, which was situated on a very considerable eminence. The land of Israel, the Jews say q, was higher than all other lands; and the temple at Jerusalem was higher than any other part of the land of Israel. And as a city cannot be hid which is built on a high place, so neither could, nor ought the doctrines which the apostles were commissioned to preach, be hid, or concealed from men: they were not to shun to declare the whole counsel of God, nor study to avoid the reproaches and persecutions of men; for they were to be "made a spectacle"; to be set as in a public theatre, to be seen by "the world, angels, and men".l Tzeror Hammor, fol. 1. 3. m Targum in Cant. iv. 1. n Juchasin, fol. 63. 2. o Abot R. Nathan, c. 25. fol. 6. 3. p Juchasin. fol. 121. 1. q T. Bab. Kiddushin, fol. 69. 1. Sanhedrim, fol. 87. 1. Zebachim, fol. 54. 2.