 26. ]  πρῶτον ,  first ; implying the offer to the Gentiles (but as yet, in Peter’s mind, only  by embracing Judaism ) afterwards: see ch. Acts 13:46 ; Romans 1:16 .
	It is strange how Olshausen can suppose that the Spirit in Peter overleapt the bounds of his subsequent prejudice with regard to the admission of the Gentiles:  he never had any such prejudice , but only against their admission  uncircumcised , and  as Gentiles .
	It is still stranger how a scholar like Dr. Burton can propose the ungrammatical and unmeaning rendering, “ πρῶτον is perhaps used with reference to Christ’s first coming, as opposed to his second.” This would require τὸ πρῶτον , and would certainly imply in the mind of the speaker an  absolute exclusion of all but Jews till the second coming .
	 ἀναστήσας , not ‘  from the dead :’ but as in Acts 3:22 .
	 παῖδα ,  His Servant : see note, Acts 3:13 .
	 ἀπέστειλεν , indefinite, of the sending in the flesh;  sent , not ‘  hath sent ;’ it does not apply to the  present time , but to God’s procedure in raising up His Servant Jesus, and His mission and ministry: and is distinct from the ἀποστείλῃ of Acts 3:20 . This is also shewn by the pres. part. εὐλογοῦντα , ingeniously, but not quite accurately rendered in E. V. ‘  to bless you .’ He came  blessing you (his coming was an act of blessing it consisted in the εὐλογεῖν : an anarthrous present participle in such a connexion carries necessarily a slightly ratiocinative sense),  in (as the conditional element of the blessing)  turning every one from your iniquities : thus conferring on you the best of blessings. εὐλογ ., in allusion to ἐνευλογ ., Acts 3:25 . ἐν τῷ in this sense, see Luke 8:5 . The application to the  present time is made by inference: ‘  as that was His object then, so now :’ but (see below) the discourse is unfinished.
	The  intransitive sense of ἀποστρέφειν , ‘  which blessing is to be gained by (  in )  every one of you turning from your iniquities ,’ given in the Vulg., ‘ut convertat se unusquisque,’ and maintained by Theophyl., Œc [37] , Beza, Kuinoel, Meyer, &c., on the strength of Acts 3:19 , is inadmissible, as ἀποστρέφω is not found thus used in the N. T., and we have the precedent of ref. Luke and Rom 11:26 for the transitive sense. The argument from Act 3:19 tells just as well for  it : ‘Repent and be converted, … for this was the object of Jesus being raised up, to confer on you this very blessing, the  turning away each of you from your iniquities.’
	 [37] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	This discourse does not come to a final conclusion as in ch. Acts 2:36 , because it was  interrupted by the apprehension of the Apostles .