 2. ]  ἐβαστ  . ,  was being carried . They took him at the hours of prayer, and carried him back between times.
	 τὴν θύραν  …   τ  .   λ  .   ὡραίαν ] The arrangement of the gates of the Temple is, from the notices which we now possess, very uncertain. Three entrances have been fixed on for the θύρα ὡραία : (1) The gate mentioned Jos. B. J. v. 5. 3: τῶν δὲ πυλῶν αἱ μὲν ἐννέα χρυσῷ καὶ ἀργύρῳ κεκαλυμμέναι πανταχόθεν ἦσαν , ὁμοίως τε παραστάδες καὶ τὰ ὑπέρθυρα . μία δὲ ἡ ἔξωθεν τοῦ νεὼ Κορινθίου χαλκοῦ , πολὺ τῇ τιμῇ τὰς καταργύρους καὶ τὰς περιχρύσους ὑπεράγουσα . This gate was also called  Nicanor’s gate (see the Rabbinical citations in Wetstein), and lay on the eastern side of the Temple, towards the valley of Kedron. Jos. mentions it again, as ἡ ἀνατολικὴ πύλη τοῦ ἐνδοτέρου , χαλκῆ οὖσα , and gives a remarkable account of its size and weight: adding, that when, before the siege, it was discovered supernaturally opened in the night, τοῦτο τοῖς ἰδιώταις κάλλιστον ἐδόκει τέρας · ἀνοῖξαι γὰρ τὸν θεὸν αὐτοῖς  τὴν τῶν ἀγαθῶν πύλην . But some find a difficulty in this. The lame man, they say, would not be likely to have been admitted so far into the Temple (but see Wetst. as above, where it appears that lepers used to stand at Nicanor’s gate): and besides, he would have taken up his station naturally at an  outer gate, where he might ask alms of  all who entered. These conditions suit better (2) the gate  Susan ; as does also the circumstance mentioned Acts 3:11 , that the people ran together to  Solomon’s porch ; for this gate was on the east side of the court of the Gentiles, and close to Solomon’s porch. Only the name ὡραία cannot be derived from the town Susan (from which the gate was named, having a picture of the town over it), that word signifying ‘a lily;’ the town being named, it is true, διὰ τὴν ὡραιότητα τοῦ τόπου (Athen [35] xii. 1, p. 573): but the derivation being too far-fetched to be at all probable. Another suitable circumstance was, that by this gate the market was held for sheep and cattle and other offerings, and therefore a greater crowd would be attracted. (3) Others again (Lightf. favours this) attempt to derive ὡραία from חֶלֶד , ‘tempus,’ and refer the epithet to two gates opening towards the city on the western side. But it is very unlikely that Luke should have used ὡρ . in so unusual a meaning: not to say (see Lightf. Descr. Templi) that the meaning of חוּלְדָה itself is very doubtful. So that the matter must remain in uncertainty.
	 [35] Athenagoras of Athens, 177