 21 .  ὃν δεῖ οὐρ  .   μ  .   δέξασθαι ] These words admit of a double rendering: (1) ‘  Whom the heaven must receive .’ (2) ‘  Who must possess (capessere)  the heaven .’ Of these the former is in my view  decidedly preferable , both as best suiting the sense, and as being the natural rendering, whereas the other is forced. Only two or three instances of δέχομαι used in this sense are produced, and in these it gets the meaning by signifying ‘to take to one’s self,’ as property or inheritance: which would surely never be said of οὐρανόν , thus barely expressed. Besides,  the emphatic  position of  οὐρανόν , with  μέν attached to it, is almost decisive against this rendering. I apprehend that this particle in a sentence of the present form is always found appended to the  subject , never to the  object ; and that, if οὐρ . had been the object, the form of the sentence would necessarily have been ὃν μὲν δεῖ κ . τ . λ .
	The reason given by Bengel for rejecting the right rendering, ‘  Cœlo capi , i.e.  cohiberi, concludi , violenta est interpretatio, quasi cœlum Christo majus sit; et inimica celsitudini Christi super omnes cœlos,’ is best answered by himself ‘Non tamen nullo sensu dici potuit,  cœlum suscipit Christum: admittit scil. ut thronus Regem legitimum;’ only I would rather understand it  locally , and recognize a parallel expression with that in ch. i., also  local , νεφέλη ὑπέλαβεν αὐτόν . And so far from seeing in it any derogation from the Majesty of Christ, it seems to me admirably to set it forth: it behoves the  heaven (which is  his , obeying his will) to  receive Him till the time appointed. The omission of the article cannot be adduced either way here: for οὐρανός ‘the heaven,’ is frequently anarthrous, as ἥλιος and other similar nouns: see (besides very numerous instances of οὐρ .  after a preposition , which are hardly to the point) 2 Peter 3:12 , and τὰν πρὸς ἕσπερον κέλευθον οὐρανοῦ , Eur. Orest. 1003. Ζεύς ἐστιν αἰθήρ , Ζεὺς δὲ γῆ , Ζεὺς δ ʼ οὐρανός , Æsch. Frag. i. 96. The tragedians never prefix the article to οὐρανός , γῆ (meaning ‘the earth’), αἰθήρ , or ἥλιος , except when qualified by an adjective, as ὦ τὸν αἰπὺν οὐρ . διφρηλατῶν , Soph. Aj. 832, and even then very seldom. Middleton has but very slightly noticed this, ch. iii. 1, § 5, note.
	 ἄχρι ] Not  during , as the advocates of the  present spiritual sense of the passage wish to render it, but until; see below.
	 χρόνων ἀποκαταστ. πάντων κ.τ.λ. ] The key both to the construction and meaning here, is our Lord’s saying, Matthew 17:11 , Ἡλίας μὲν ἔρχεται καὶ  ἀποκαταστήσει πάντα . From this we see that  ἀποκατ  .   πάντων stands alone, as the ἀποκατ . of  all things : and that ὧν  does not belong to πάντων . Next, what is  ἀποκατάστασις ? We must be guided by the Usage of the kindred verb ἀποκαθίστημι (or - άνω ). Certainly,  to restore is its usual import, and most strikingly so, accompanied however with the notion of a  glorious and  complete restoration, in ch. Acts 1:6 . To render our word  fulfilment , and apply it to πάντων  ὧν ἐλάλ . κ . τ . λ ., is against all precedent.
	And, in the sense of  restoration , I cannot see how it can be applied to the work of the Spirit, as proceeding, during this the interim-state, in the hearts of men. This would be contrary to all Scripture analogy. I understand it then of the  glorious restoration of all things , the παλιγγενεσία [ Mat 19:28 ], which as Peter here says, is the theme of all the prophets from the beginning.
	No objection can be raised to this from the meaning of χρόνοι : see ch. Acts 7:17 , and Peter’s own language, 1 Peter 1:20 , ἐπ ʼ ἐσχάτου τῶν χρόνων . If the distinction be true between χρόνοι and καιροί , as denoting a longer and a shorter period respectively, which I much doubt, it does not affect this passage: for, either way, the χρόνοι ἀποκατ . will imply the time or period of the ἀποκατ ., not the moment only when it begins or is completed, as καιρός (not καιροί ) ἀποκατ . might. De Wette is hardly right in saying that the unexpressed δέ to answer to μέν is contained in the sense of ἀποκατάστασις : it is rather contained in the previous clause, καὶ ἀποστείλη , κ . τ . λ . In order to fill up the ellipsis, this clause would have to be repeated after προφητῶν τότε δὲ αὐτὸν ἀποστελεῖ .
	 ὧν , i.e. οὕς , agreeing with χρόνους , or perhaps περὶ ὧν , i.e. χρόνων .  It does not refer to  πάντων , see above.
	On the testimony of the prophets, see Acts 3:18 , note.