 19 .]  οὖν ,  quæcum ita sint .
	 εἰς τὸ ἐξαλ .] The faith implied in ἐπιστρέψατε has for its aim, is necessarily (by God’s covenant, see John 3:15 ; Joh 3:18 ) accompanied by, the wiping out of sin.
	 ὅπως ἂν ἔλθ . κ . τ . λ .] This passage has been variously rendered and explained. To deal first with the  rendering :  ὅπως ἄν  cannot mean ‘when ,’ as in E. V. ὅπως never occurs in that sense in the N. T., nor indeed with an indic. at all; and if it did, the addition of ἄν , and the use of a subjunctive, would preclude it here. It can have but one sense,  in order that . This being so,  what are  καιροὶ ἀναψύξεως ? From the omission of the article, some have insisted (e.g. Stier, R. d. Apost. i. 89) on rendering it ‘  times, seasons , of ἀναψ .’ But this cannot be maintained. καιρός and καιροί are occasionally anarthrous when they manifestly must have the article in English. Cf. especially Luke 21:24 , καιροὶ ἐθνῶν , where none would think of rendering, ‘seasons of (the) Gentiles.’ See for καιρός Matthew 8:29 ; Mark 11:13 ; 1 Peter 1:5 . And, since philologically we have to choose between ‘seasons’ and ‘the seasons,’ ἔλθωσιν must I think determine in favour of the latter. For by that word we must understand a definite  arrival , one and the same for all, not a mere  occurrence , as the other sense of καιροί would render necessary. This is also implied by the aorist, used, in a conditional sentence, of a  single fact , whereas a recurrence or enduring of a state is expressed by the  present .  In order that the times of ἀνάψυξις  may come .  What is  ἀνάψ .? Clearly, from the above rendering,  some refreshment, future , and which  their conversion was to bring about . But hardly, from what has been said, refreshment  in their own hearts , arising from their conversion: besides the above objections, the following words, ἀπὸ προσώπου τοῦ κυρίου , are not likely to have been used in that case. No other meaning, it seems to me, will suit the words, but that of  the times of refreshment , the great season of joy and rest, which it was understood the coming of the Messiah in His glory was to bring with it. That this should be connected by the Apostle with the conversion of the Jewish people, was not only according to the plain inference from prophecy, but doubtless was one of those  things concerning the kingdom of God which he had been taught by his risen Master. The same connexion holds  even now . If it be objected to this, that thus we have the conversion of the Jews regarded as  bringing about the great times of refreshment, and those times consequently as  delayed by their non-conversion (‘neque enim est Mutate vos in melius, ut Deus mittat Christum: non esse potest: hoc non pendet a nostra μετανοίᾳ .’ Morus in Stier R. A. i. 91), I answer, that, however true this may be in fact, the other is fully borne out by the manner of speaking in Scripture: the same objection might lie against the efficacy of  prayer . See Genesis 19:22 ; Genesis 32:26 ; Mar 6:5 ; 2 Thessalonians 2:3 ; 2 Peter 3:12 .
	 ἀπὸ προσώπ  .   τ  .   κυρ  . ]  From the presence of God (  the Father ), who has reserved these καιροί in His own power. When they arrive, it is by His decree, which goes forth from His presence. Cf. ἐξῆλθεν δόγμα παρὰ Καίς . Αὐγ ., Luke 2:1 .