 2 .] First, a point of  likeness between our Lord and Moses is brought out, and that by a reference to an O. T. declaration respecting the latter ( μέλλει προϊὼν τὸν κατὰ σάρκα χριστὸν προτιθέναι Μωυσέως . ἀλλ ʼ ἐπειδή , εἰ καὶ πιστοὶ ἦσαν οὗτοι πρὸς οὓς ὁ λόγος , μεγάλας ἔτι δόξας εἶχον περὶ Μωυσέως , ἵνα μὴ εὐθέως ἀποφράξωσιν αὐτῶν τὰ ὦτα , οὐκ εὐθέως προτίθησι Μωυσέως τὸν χριστόν , ἀλλὰ τέως ἐξισοῖ · εἶτα προϊὼν προτίθησιν Œc.),  who is (not, ‘  was .’ The present participle may always be contemporary with a previously expressed verb, of any tense, provided that verb be absolutely in construction with the participle, as ἀνέβλεψε τυφλὸς ὤν , “  he, being blind, received sight ” = he was blind and received sight. But a present participle standing absolutely, or with a present verb, must retain its present force; as τυφλὸς ὢν ἄρτι βλέπω , “  I, being a blind man, now see ,” = ‘whereas I am (by infirmity, as every one knows, not, “whereas I  was ,” as in E. V. in loco, Joh 9:25 ) blind, now I see.’ And so the present sense must be retained here. Then a question arises: are we to understand it strictly of present time, of Christ now in heaven, or as in the case cited, of general designation? Clearly, I think, of the latter: Jesus, whose character it is, that He is πιστός . For the strict present would, to say nothing of other objections, not apply to the ἀπόστολον portion of the Lord’s office, but only to the ἀρχιερέα . It, as Lünemann has well expressed it,  charakterisirt das Treusein als inhärirende Eigenschaft )  faithful (it is questioned, whether or not this word refers back to the πιστὸς ἀρχιερεύς of ch. Hebrews 2:18 . The sense is certainly not the same: the faithfulness there being the fidelity wherewith He being like His brethren would, so to speak, reproduce their wants before God, that here spoken of being His faithfulness to God, over whose house He is set, Hebrews 3:6 . Still I cannot help thinking that the  word itself is led to by, and takes up that other. That regarded more the  sacerdotal , this regards the  apostolic office of Christ)  to him that made him (so we must render ποιήσαντι , not, “  that appointed him .” And so D-lat., “fidelem esse creatori suo,” Ambrose, de Fide iii. 11, vol. ii. (iii. Migne) p. 512 (quoting as above, he adds, “Videtis in quo creatum dicit; in quo assumsit, inquit, semen Abrahæ, corporalem utique generationem asserit”), Vigil-taps [21] (contra Varimadum, i. 4, Migne, Patr. Lat. vol. lxii. p. 366, “fidelem existentem ei qui creavit eum”), Primasius (“qui fidelis est eidem Deo Patri qui fecit eum (so vulg.), juxta quod alibi dicitur: qui factus est ei ex semine David secundum carnem ( Rom 1:3 ).” ibid.), Schulz, Bleek, Lünemann. The ordinary rendering, “who appointed Him” (viz. ἀπόστολον κ . ἀρχιερέα ) does not seem to me to be sufficiently substantiated by any of the passages brought in its defence. That ποιεῖν with two accusatives signifies  to appoint, to make into , of course no one doubts: cf. Genesis 27:37 ; Exodus 18:25 ; John 6:15 ; Acts 2:36 . But our question is not of such constructions: we want to know whether ποιεῖν τινα can ever be filled up with a second accusative out of the context. Two passages are most frequently alleged to prove the affirmative. One is ref. 1 Kings, μάρτυς κύριος ὁ ποιήσας τὸν Μωυσῆν καὶ τὸν Ἀαρών ( אֲשֶׁר עָשָׂה אֶת־מ״ ), καὶ ὁ ἀναγαγὼν τοὺς πατέρας ὑμῶν ἐξ Αἰγύπτου . But here Bleek, against Gesenius and De Wette, holds fast, and I think rightly, to the original sense of עָשָׂה , and renders “  who made Moses and Aaron .” The other place, Mark 3:14 , ἐποίησε δώδεκα ἵνα ὦσιν μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ ἵνα ἀποστέλλῃ αὐτοὺς κηρύσσειν , is less still to the point, because there the ἵνα ὦσιν κ . τ . λ . qualifies the verb, and gives the second accusative, q. d. ἐποίησε δώδεκα τοὺς ἐσομένους κ . τ . λ . And the phrase  ὁ ποιήσας αὐτόν , for God the Creator, is so common in the LXX, that had our Writer had that other meaning in his view, his readers would have been sure to misunderstand him. Bleek accumulates instances: cf. Isaiah 17:7 ; Isaiah 43:1 ; Isaiah 51:13 ; Isaiah 54:5 ; Hosea 8:14 ; Job 35:10 ; Psalms 94:6 ( Psa 95:7 ); Psalms 149:2 ; Sir 7:30 ; Sir 10:12 ; Sir 39:5 , and many other places. He also presses the fact that ὁ ποιῶν in the Hellenistic Greek of Philo is the constant designation of God as the Creator. The word thus taken, is of course to be understood of that constitution of our Lord as our Apostle and High Priest in which He, being human, was made by the Father: not of Him as the eternal Word (as even Bleek and Lünemann, explaining it of His generation before the worlds), which would be irrelevant here, besides being against all Scripture precedent. Even Athanasius himself, though arguing against this unwarranted inference of the Arians from the phrases, seems to have understood it as we have done above: for he says, Contra Arianos ii. (iii.) 8, vol. i. (ii. Migne), p. 376, οὐχ ὅτι ὁ λόγος , ᾗ λόγος ἐστί , πεποίηται , νοεῖν θέμις · ἀλλ ʼ ὅτι λόγος ὢν δημιουργὸς ὕστερον πεποίηται ἀρχιερεὺς ἐνδυσάμενος σῶμα τὸ γεννητὸν καὶ ποιητόν . And so also the orthodox Latins, Ambrose, Vigil-taps [22] , Primasius, explaining “  creatio ” by “  corporalis generatio .” The Greek Fathers, generally, repudiate strongly this view, as was natural, living as they did in the midst of the strife. Chrys. says, τί ποιήσαντι ; ἀπόστολον κ . ἀρχιερέα · οὐδὲν ἐνταῦθα περὶ οὐσίας φησίν , οὐδὲ περὶ τῆς θεότητος , ἀλλὰ τέως περὶ ἀξιωμάτων ἀνθρωπίνων . And so Œc. and Thl. Thdrt. even more plainly, ποίησιν δὲ οὐ τὴν δημιουργίαν , ἀλλὰ τὴν χειροτονίαν κέκληκεν . And Epiphan. Hær. lxix. 38. 39, vol. ii. (Migne), p. 761, distinctly denies any reference even to the humanity of Christ as created, οὐδὲ τὴν αὐτὴν πλάσιν ἐνταῦθα διηγεῖται τοῦ σώματος , οὐδὲ τῆς αὐτοῦ ἐνανθρωπήσεως , οὐ περὶ κτίσεως ὅλως φάσκει , ἀλλὰ μετὰ τὴν ἐνδημίαν τοῦ ἀξιώματος τὸ χάρισμα . See other testimonies from the Fathers in Suicer, ii. p. 788),  as also (  καί , to take another instance of faithfulness: thus, with every circumstance of honour, is Moses introduced, before any disparagement of him is entered upon) (  was )  Moses in all His house (from ref. Num., οὐχ οὕτως ὁ θεράπων μου Μωυσῆς ἐν ὅλῳ τῷ οἴκῳ μου πιστός ἐστι . 1. It may be well to remark, that the substitution of αὐτοῦ for μου at once indicates to whom αὐτοῦ is to be referred: viz. to God, τῷ ποιήσαντι αὐτόν : see also below on Hebrews 3:6 . And so most ancient and modern Commentators. Ebrard would make it both times reflexive “his house,” i. e. the house to which he belongs: Bleek, both times to refer to Christ, whose house, as a Son, it is: Thl. gives the alternative,  οἶκον τὸν λαὸν λέγει , ὡς καὶ ἡμεῖς εἰώθαμεν λέγειν , ὁ δεῖνα τῆσδε τῆς οἰκίας ἐστίν ·  αὐτοῦ , δέ , ἤτοι τοῦ θεοῦ , ἢ τοῦ Μωυσέως · καὶ γὰρ καὶ τοῦ Μ . ἐλέγετο ὁ λαός , ὡς τὸ ὁ λαός σου ἥμαρτεν . But this last expression had a special reference, and did not represent a general truth. 2. The circumstance of the quotation makes it far more natural to refer ἐν ὅλῳ τ . οἴκῳ αὐτοῦ to Moses directly, and not to Christ, as Ebrard, al., putting a comma at Μωυσῆς . 3. The ellipsis is to be filled up by πιστὸς ἦν after τῷ οἴκῳ αὐτοῦ , as in the place cited. 4. The signification of ὁ οἶκος αὐτοῦ is well illustrated by 1 Timothy 3:15 , πῶς δεῖ ἐν οἴκῳ θεοῦ ἀναστρέφεσθαι , ἥτις ἐστὶν ἐκκλησία θεοῦ ζῶντος . It imports the Church of God: and is one and the same here and in Hebrews 3:6 ; not two different houses, but the same, in the case of Moses taken at one time only, in that of Christ, in its whole existence and development).
	 [21] Vigil  ius of Thapsus , 484
	 [22] Vigil  ius of Thapsus , 484