 16 .]  For (on our understanding of the connexion of ἐν τῷ λέγεσθαι (see above) this  γάρ is not the elliptic γάρ so often accompanying an interrogation, as on Bleek’s rendering, but the ordinary γάρ , rendering a reason. ‘You need indeed to be careful against unbelief:  for on account of this very unbelief all our fathers were excluded’) WHO,  when they had heard (in immediate reference to ἐὰν ἀκούσητε above),  provoked (scil. God: see reff. and Eze 20:13 A)?  nay, was it not (this  ἀλλά , in a question which itself answers a question, is elliptical, and may be explained in two ways: 1. ‘  was it not, not a few but’.… : 2. by regarding the  ἀλλά as expressing a negation of the uncertainty implied in the question a ground why the question should not have been asked at all. And this is by far the better account: cf. ref. Luke: τίς δὲ … ἐξ ὑμῶν .… ὃς ἐρεῖ … ἀλλ ʼ οὐχὶ ἐρεῖ ; q. d. ‘what need to ask such a question?’ Xen. Cyr. ii. 2. 21, καὶ τί δεῖ .… ἐμβαλεῖν λόγον περὶ τούτου , ἀλλ ʼ οὐχὶ προειπεῖν ὅτι οὕτω ποιήσεις ; Aristid. Panath. i. p. 169, ἆρ ʼ ἴσον τὸ κεφάλαιον , ἢ μικρὸν τὸ διάφορον ; ἀλλ ʼ οὐ πᾶν τοὐναντίον ;)  all who (Bengel and several others would take  πάντες οἱ to signify “  meri ,” “  only those who ,” a meaning which it cannot by any possibility bear. As above noticed, the exceptions are put out of sight, and that which was true of  almost all , asserted generally)  came out from Egypt by means of Moses (the construction is somewhat unusual. We should expect with  διὰ a passive participle, like ἐξαχθέντες . Lünemann refers to δι ʼ ὧν ἐπιστεύσατε 1Co 3:5 )  ? and (we cannot otherwise express in English this  δέ , which simply brings out the very slight contrast of a second and new particular. It is “  but ” in the E. V.: but that is because they take Heb 3:16 in the manner above rejected, as an  assertion )  with WHOM  was He offended forty years (see on Heb 3:9-10 for the verb  προσώχθισεν , and the consonance, in the connexion of  τεσς  .   ἔτη with it, with that in the Psalm, which was there departed from)  ? Was it not with those who sinned (some, as Bengel, Griesbach, Lachmann, Knapp, Vater, set the interrogation here, and take ὧν τὰ κῶλα κ . τ . λ . as an affirmative sentence. But it seems unnatural to insert an affirmative clause in the midst of a series of interrogatories, and therefore better to keep the interrogation for the end of the sentence, including that clause in it),  whose carcases (  κῶλα any members of the body, but especially the legs: taken also for the legs and arms, i. e. limbs: see example in Wetst. from Galen. The LXX, see reff., use it for פְּגָרִים ,  corpses : but probably with the meaning that their bodies should fall and perish limb from limb in the wilderness: so Beza: “Hoc vocabulo significatur, illos non tam sic ferente mortalitate vel quovis morbo, sed tabescentibus sensim corporibus in deserto veluti concidisse”)  fell in the wilderness (cf. 1 Corinthians 10:5 , κατεστρώθησαν γὰρ ἐν τῇ ἐρήμῳ . The words here are exactly those of Numbers 14:29 . Again, we must remember, in explaining these words, that the Writer is not bearing in mind at this moment the exceptions, but speaking generally. So Calvin: “Quæritur, an Moses et Aaron ac similes in hoc numero comprehendantur. Respondeo, apostolum de universo magis corpore quam de singulis membris loqui”)  ? And to whom (not “  concerning whom ,” as Syr., al.: the dative after verbs of swearing or asserting is common, as expressing those towards whom the act is directed. So that it is not a dativus incommodi, as Lünemann)  sware He that they should not enter into His rest (the construction here is somewhat anomalous with regard to the  subject of the verb εἰσελεύσεσθαι . Ordinarily, the subject of the verb of swearing is identical with that of the verb expressing the act to which he binds himself. So in Xen. Hel. iii. 4. 6, Τισσαφέρνης μὲν ὤμοσε τοῖς πεμφθεῖσι πρὸς αὐτὸν .… ἢ μὴν πράξειν ἀδόλως τὴν εἰρήνην · ἐκεῖνοι δὲ ἀντώμοσαν .… τισσαφέρνει , ἢ μήν , ταῦτα πράττοντος αὐτοῦ , ἐμπεδώσειν τὰς σπονδάς . See other examples in Bleek. But here the persons to whom the oath is directed, are the subject of the future εἰσελεύσεσθαι . We seem to want either a τό before μὴ εἰσελεύς ., or an αὐτούς after it. The latter construction is found in ref. Tobit, ὀμώμοκε Ῥαγουήλ , μὴ ἐξελθεῖν με ),  except to those who disobeyed (not, as vulg., “  increduli fuerunt :” E. V., “  believed not :” and so Luther, Estius, Calov., al.: this was a fact, and was indeed the root of their ἀπείθεια : but ἀπειθής , ἀπειθεῖν , are most commonly used of  practical unbelief, i. e. disobedience: even in the passages in the Acts (reff.), where the meaning approximates the nearest to unbelief, it is best understood of ‘contumacia.’ Ref. Deut. seems decisive of the meaning here: see also Deuteronomy 9:7 ; Deuteronomy 9:23-24 ; Jos 1:18 al.)?