 1 .]  Whence (i. e. seeing that we have such a helper: it is connected with the result of ch. 2: not, surely, with ch. Hebrews 1:1 , as De W. The fact just announced in Hebrews 2:18 , is a reason for κατανοήσατε : see below),  hely brethren (Michaelis proposed to put a comma at ἀδελφοί , and treat the two as separate,  brethren (and)  saints . But, as Bleek observes, the rhythm seems against this, κλής . ἐπαυρ . μέτοχοι following. And a graver objection may be found in the choice of the words themselves: for there can hardly be a doubt that both are used in reference to the ἁγιαζόμενοι and ἀδελφοί of ch. Hebrews 2:11-12 . Not that the ἀδελφοί here are  Christ’s brethren: but that the use of the word reminds them of that brotherhood in and because of Christ, of which he has before spoken. Whether the idea of common nationality is here to be introduced, is at least doubtful. I should rather regard it as swallowed up in the great brotherhood in Christ: and Bleek has well remarked, that, had the Writer been addressing believing Jews and Gentiles, or even believing Gentiles only, he would have used the same term of address and without any conscious difference of meaning),  partakers (see on μετέχειν , ch. Hebrews 2:14 ; and reff. here)  of a heavenly calling (  κλῆσις , as usual, of the invitation, or summons, of God, calling men to His glory in Christ and hence of the state which is entered by them in pursuance of that calling: cf. especially Philippians 3:14 , τῆς ἄνω κλήσεως τοῦ θεοῦ ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ . Then also  ἐπουρανίου (see reff.) a calling made from heaven, see ch. Hebrews 12:25 ; “vocatio quæ de cœlo,” Syr. Or it may mean, the calling which proposes a heavenly reward, whose inheritance is in heaven. By far the best way is, to join the two meanings together: so Bengel, “per Dominum e cœlo factæ, et eo, unde facta est, perducentis.” In fact the calling being ἐπουράνιος and proceeding from heaven, must of necessity be  heavenly in its purport and  heavenward in its result;  eine vom himmel aus ergangene und gen himmel rufende: ihr Ausgangsort, ihr Inhalt, ihr Ziel das Alles ist himmlisch . Delitzsch),  contemplate (survey, with a view to more closely considering. The word is used of the survey of the spies at Jericho ( λαθόντες γὰρ τὸ πρῶτον ἅπασαν ἐπ ʼ ἀδείας τὴν πόλιν αὐτῶν κατενόησαν , τῶν τε τειχῶν ὅσα καρτερὰ κ . τ . λ . Jos. Antt. v. 1. 2: cf. also Genesis 42:9 , κατάσκοποί ἐστε , κατανοῆσαι τὰ ἴχνη τῆς χώρας ἥκατε , and Num 32:8-9 ); and of fixing the thoughts on any object, see reff. Luke, with whom it is a favourite word. The meaning then of the exhortation here is not, ‘pay attention to’ (“ut sedule attendant ad Christum,” Calv.), ‘be obedient to,’ but as above)  the Apostle and High Priest (notice that but one art. covers both ἀπόστ . and ἀρχ ., thereby making it certain that both words belong to τῆς ὁμολογίας )  of our profession, Jesus (  ἀπόστολον , as superior to the ἄγγελοι , being Himself the angel of the covenant, God’s greatest messenger: the word ἄγγελον being, as Ebrard, avoided, on account of its technical use before, to prevent Christ being confused with the angels in nature. He is ὁ ἀπεσταλμένος παρὰ πατρός : see John 20:21 . (I may remark, that the circumstance of the Writer using ἀπόστολος without scruple, as designating our Lord, may shew that the ἀπόστολοι as a class were not so distinctly marked as they have since been: a view supported also by some expressions of St. Paul: e. g. 2 Corinthians 8:23 .)
	Ebrard well remarks, that all the difficulties which Commentators have found in this term vanish, on bearing well in mind the comparison between Christ and the angels in ch. Hebrews 1:2 . See an instance of this in the elaborate discussion of its meaning on Hebraistic grounds in the last edition of Tholuck; who, by rendering ἀπόστ ., “  mediator ,” has lost the joint testimony of the two, ἀπόστ . and ἀρχ ., to Christ’s mediatorship. Bengel says well on the two, “  τὸν ἀπόστ  . , eum qui Dei causam apud nos agit:  τὸν ἀρχ  . , qui causam nostram apud Deum agit. Hic Apostolatus et Pontificatus uno  mediatoris vocabulo continentur.”  τῆς ὁμολογίας ἡμ  ., of our Christian  confession , i. e. of our faith: so Thl., τουτέστι τῆς πίστεως · οὐ γὰρ τῆς κατὰ νόμον λατρείας ἀρχιερεύς ἐστιν , ἀλλὰ τῆς ἡμετέρας πίστεως . And so Thdrt., Œc., and Erasm., Calv., Beza, Grot., al. Tholuck objects, that thus we get no good sense for ἀπόστολος : but he does not seem to have taken into account the parallel with ch. Hebrews 1:14 . Thos. Aquinas, Luther, Camero, Calov., Owen (as an altern.), Wolf, al., and De Wette, and Tholuck, take the words as merely importing “  whom we confess .” But although De W. defends this from ch. Hebrews 4:14 , it does not seem to agree with the usage there, κρατῶμεν τῆς ὁμολογίας , nor with ch. Hebrews 10:23 , nor 1 Timothy 6:12-13 . To render ὁμολογία by “  covenant ,” as Camerar., Tittmann, al., is not according to N. T. usage, which always has διαθήκη for this idea. There is a remarkable passage quoted by Wetst., out of Philo de Somn. i. § 38, vol. i. p. 654, containing the expression ὁ μέγας ἀρχιερεὺς τῆς ὁμολογίας : a parallel hardly to be accounted accidental, especially as the ἀρχιερεύς here spoken of is the λόγος (see above,§ 37, p. 653, δύο ἱερὰ θεοῦ , ἓν μὲν ὅδε ὁ κόσμος , ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἀρχιερεύς , ὁ πρωτόγονος αὐτοῦ θεῖος λόγος ). But Bleek has argued that, there being nothing in the context, or in the usage of Philo elsewhere, which can justify τῆς ὁμολογίας there, the only inference open to us is, that it has been inserted in Philo’s text from this passage.