 5 .] The argument proceeds, resuming the common ground of Hebrews 3:2 ;  and Moses indeed (inasmuch as δέ following has the effect of bringing out, and thus emphasizing, χριστός , this  μέν may almost be treated as a particle of disparagement: cf. Isocr. Panegyr. p. 178, ἡ καλουμένη μὲν ἀρχή , οὖσα δὲ συμφσρά “which is called indeed … but really is …”) (  was )  faithful in all His (God’s, cf. above the words of the citation, on Heb 3:2 )  house, as a servant (cf. as above; the word  θεράπων (see reff.) is often applied by the LXX to Moses. So also Wis 10:16 ; Barnabas, Ep. c. 14, Μωυσῆς θεράπων ὢν ἔλαβεν ( τὰς πλάκας ), αὐτὸς δὲ ὁ κύριος ἡμῖν ἔδωκεν .  θεράπων differs from δοῦλος , in embracing all who are, whether by occasion or by office, subservient to another: thus the Etym. Mag.: θεράποντας οὐχ , ὥσπερ οἱ νεώτεροι , δούλους , ἀλλὰ πάντας τοὺς θεραπευτικῶς ἔχοντας , ὡς “ Δαναοὶ θεράποντες Ἄρηος ·” καί , τὸν ἐν δευτέρᾳ τάξει φίλον , ὡς “ Πάτροκλος Ἀχιλλέως θεράπων .” Wetst., who also cites Apollonius, Ammonius, and Eustathius, to the same effect. This of course would allow the same person to be called by both names, as Moses is in Jos 1:1-2 F. (not A), and al. Bleek well remarks here, that δοῦλος , had it been used of Moses in the place cited, would have served the Writer’s purpose here just as well for the argument, but not for the words εἰς μαρτ . τῶν λαληθησομένων , which here follow, indicating the nature of his θεραπεία ),  for testimony of the things which were to be (afterwards)  spoken (these words are not to be joined with θεράπων , as Bleek, Lün., al., nor, as Estius, al., with πιστός ; but with the whole preceding sentence: the purpose of the faithful service of Moses in God’s house was, εἰς μαρτ . κ . τ . λ . In considering the meaning of the words, surely we must look further than the commonly received shallow interpretation which refers them to the things which Moses himself was to speak to the people by God’s command. For how could his fidelity ἐν ὅλῳ τῷ οἴκῳ θεοῦ , comprehending as it does the whole of his official life, be said to be εἰς μαρτύριον τῶν λαληθησομένων by him to the people? It seems to me that neither εἰς μαρτύριον ( ἐν τῇ μαρτυρίᾳ ) nor τῶν λαληθησομένων ( τῶν λαληθέντων ) will bear such an interpretation. And yet it is acquiesced in by Syr. (“in testimonium eorum quæ loquenda erant in ejus manu”), Chrys. (not perhaps exactly: τί ἐστιν , εἰς μαρτύριον ; ἵνα ὦσι , φησί , μάρτυρες , ὅταν ἀναισχυντῶσιν οὗτοι : but this surely will not suit the gen. τῶν λαληθ .), Thdrt. ( ἐκεῖνος μὲν πιστὸς ἐκλήθη , ἵνα δειχθῇ ἀξιόχρεως νομοθέτης . τοῦτο γὰρ εἶπεν , εἰς μαρτ . τῶν λαλ .), Thl. ( ἵνα λαλῇ τὰ τοῦ δεσπότου τοῖς λοιποῖς οἰκέταις , κ . μάρτυς ᾖ τῷ θεῷ ἐν τῇ κρίσει τῶν λαληθέντων ), Œc., Primas., Est., Corn.-a-Lap., Grot., Hamm., &c., Stuart, De W., Bleek, Lünem. But, 1. the εἰς with μαρτύριον seems best to express an ulterior purpose of the whole of that which is spoken of in the preceding clause: cf. the same combination in reff. Gospp.: 2. the neut. gen. after μαρτύριον is best understood of that to which the testimony referred, as in Acts 4:33 ; 1Co 1:6 ; 1 Corinthians 2:1 ; 2 Timothy 1:8 : and 3. the future participle requires that the λαληθησόμενα should be referred to a time wholly subsequent to the ministry of Moses. This has been felt by some of the expositors, and curiously evaded: e. g. by Jac. Cappellus, “Rationi consentaneum erat ut  statim initio fidelissimus comperiretur Moses, quo fide dignius esset testimonium  quod postea perhibiturus erat in monte Sinai.” But unfortunately for this view, the incident from which this divine testimony to Moses is quoted, was long subsequent to the delivery of the law from Sinai. If then we are pointed onward to future time for τὰ λαληθησόμενα , what are they? What, but the matter of the divine ἐλάλησεν ἡμῖν ἐν υἱῷ of our ch. Heb 1:1 ? The whole ministry of Moses was, εἰς μαρτύριον of these λαληθησόμενα . And when Bleek says that the participle would not be put thus absolutely with such a signification, but would be qualified by ἐπ ʼ ἐσχάτου τῶν ἡμερῶν , or διὰ τοῦ υἱοῦ , or the like, or expressed τῶν μελλόντων λαληθῆναι , we may well answer that the Writer, having in ch. Heb 1:1 laid down λαλεῖσθαι as a common term for the revelations of the two dispensations, and again taken it up ch. Hebrews 2:2-3 , had no need again to qualify it further than by the future participle. I interpret it then to mean the Gospel, with Calvin (“Moses, dum est ejus doctrinæ præco, quæ pro temporis ratione veteri populo erat prædicanda, simul testimonium Evangelio, cujus nondum matura prædicatio erat, reddidit. Nam certe constat, finem et complementum legis esse hanc perfectionem sapientiæ quæ evangelio continetur. Atque hanc expositionem exigere viaetur futurum participii tempus”), Owen (“ λαληθ . represents things future unto what he did in his whole ministry. This our translation rightly observes, rendering it, ‘the things that should be spoken after.’ And this as well the order of the words as the import of them doth require. In his ministry he was a testimony, or, by what he did in the service of the house he gave testimony: whereunto? to the things that were afterwards to be spoken, viz. in the fulness of time, the appointed season, by the Messiah: i. e. the things of the gospel. And this indeed was the proper end of all that Moses did or ordered in the house of God”), Cameron, Calov., Seb. Schmidt, Limborch, Wolf, Peirce, Wetstein, Cramer, Baumg., al., Ebrard, and, as I have found since writing the above note, Hofmann and Delitzsch):  but Christ (scil. πιστός ( ἐστιν ), to correspond with the πιστὸν ὄντα , ὡς καὶ κ . τ . λ . above, Hebrews 3:2 . Some would supply ἐστιν only, as Erasm. (paraphr.), “At Christus, ut conditor ac filius, administravit suam ipsius domum:” but thus the parallelism would be broken. Then, supplying πιστός , are we to join it with ἐπὶ τὸν οἶκ . αὐτοῦ , as in Matthew 25:21 ; Matthew 25:23 , ἐπὶ ὀλίγα ἦς πιστός , or to insert it before ὡς υἱός , and take it absolutely? Certainly the latter, as shewn by the order of the words in the previous sentence; the ellipsis here being, to judge by that order, between δέ and ὡς , not between υἱός and ἐπί )  as a Son over his house (  αὐτοῦ here again  of God , not primarily, though of course by inference, of Christ. The house is  God’s throughout: but Christ is of primary authority and glory in it, inasmuch as He is the Son in the house, and actually established the house. This, which I am persuaded is required by the context, is shewn decisively by ch. Hebrews 10:21 , ἔχοντες … ἱερέα μέγαν  ἐπὶ τὸν οἶκον τοῦ θεοῦ . So Chrys. ( ἐκεῖνος μὲν εἰς  τὰ πατρῷα ὡς δεσπότης εἰσέρχεται , οὗτος δὲ ὡς δοῦλος ), Thdrt. (on the following words: οἶκον τοῦ θεοῦ κέκληκε τοὺς πιστεύοντας κατὰ τὴν προφητείαν τὴν λέγουσαν , ἐνοικήσω ἐν αὐτοῖς κ . τ . λ .), D-lat. (but with “  in ,” “Christus autem tanquam filius in domo ejus:” vulg. has “in domo sua”), Jerome (Ep. 18, ad Damas. § 5, vol. i. p. 49, “Christus autem ut filius super domum ejus”), Corn.-a-Lap., Schlichting, Peirce, Bengel, Storr, Morus, Abresch, Dindorf, al.: and recently, Stuart (but only as a question between ἑαυτοῦ and αὐτοῦ , and apparently without being aware that  αὐτοῦ may have both meanings), and Lünemann. The greater number of Commentators refer it to Christ: many of them writing it  αὑτοῦ , to which Bleek well replies, that had the Writer intended the emphatic reflexive pronoun to be understood, writing as he did without accents, he would certainly have used  ἑαυ τοῦ , in a matter so easily confused. Of the rest, some, e. g. Ebrard, take αὐτοῦ as referring to Christ: and others, as simply the reflexive pronoun after the generic υἱός : “as a son over his (own) house:” thus Böhme, Bleek, De Wette, al. But thus the parallelism is destroyed, and in fact the identity of the house in the two cases, on which depends the strictness of the comparison between Moses and Christ. Most of the expositors have not felt this: but Ebrard has distinctly maintained that two houses are intended: “In the one house serves Moses for a testimony of the future revelations of God, the οἶκος itself being part of the μαρτύριον : the other οἶκος , the οἶκος of Christ, are  we : it is a living house, built of living stones.” But this introduces a complicated comparison, and to my mind infinitely weakens the argument. There is but one house throughout, and that one, the Church of God, in which both are faithful; one as a servant, the other as a son: this house was Israel, this house are we, if we are found faithful in the covenant. So also I am glad to see Delitzsch takes the sentence. Dec. 31, 1858),  whose (not (except by inference)  Christ’s , as Œc., Jac. Cappellus, Estius, Owen, Bleek, De Wette, Ebrard, al., but,  God’s , as Chrys. ( οἶκος γάρ , φησίν , ἐσόμεθα τοῦ θεοῦ … ἐάνπερ κ . τ . λ .), Thdrt. (see above on αὐτοῦ ), Thl. (as Chrys., recognizing, however, Christ also, as the possessor of the house, οἶκον ἔχει καὶ ὁ χριστός , ἡμᾶς ), Calvin (“Additur hæc admonitio, tunc eos in Dei familia locum habituros, si Christo pareant”), al., and Delitzsch. Besides the considerations urged above as affecting the question, we have the strong argument from Scripture analogy, cf. besides reff., 1 Corinthians 3:16-17 ; 2 Corinthians 6:16 ; Ephesians 2:22 ; ch. Hebrews 10:21 ; Hebrews 12:22 ; Revelation 3:12 ; which alone, especially ch. Hebrews 10:21 , would go very far with me to decide the question)  house (some, e. g. Bengel who would read ὃς οἶκος , urge the omission of the article here as against οὗ οἶκος : adducing such expressions as οὗ τὸ πτύον , ἧς ὁ ἀδελφός , ὧν τὸ στόμα , ὧν τὰ ὀνόματα , οὗ ἡ πληγή , ὧν τὰ κῶλα , οὗ ἡ φωνή , οὗ ἡ οἰκία . But in every one of these the subject is distributed: whereas here οἶκος and ἡμεῖς are not commensurate, the proposition merely expressing categorical inclusion, and God’s house being far wider than ἡμεῖς . Compare the precisely similar passage, 1 Peter 3:6 , ἧς ( Σάῤῥας ) ἐγενήθητε τέκνα ἀγαθοποιοῦσαι κ . τ . λ .)  are we (the Writer and his Hebrew readers: = of whose house we are, even as Moses was),  if we hold fast (reff. Bleek objects to the shorter text here, that the Writer has twice besides used this verb, and both times with a tertiary adjectival predicate: see reff. But such a consideration can hardly override critical evidence)  the confidence (reff.: not, “  free and open confession ,” as Grot. (“professio Christianismi aperta”), Hamm., Limborch, al., which would not suit κατάσχωμεν , a purely subjective word)  and the (notice the article, which shews that this second noun is not merely explicative of the first,  nor To Be Ranked In The Same category with it)  matter of boasting (the concrete: not here to be confounded (although the confusion certainly did take place sometimes) with καύχησις , the abstract, as is done by Bleek, De Wette, Tholuck, &c. As παῤῥησία was subjective,  our confidence , so is this objective,  the object whereon that confidence is founded : see notes on reff. 2 Cor., where the same mistake has been made. And κατάσχωμεν is no objection to this: we may ‘hold fast’ an object of faith, though (see above) we could not ‘hold fast,’ except in a very far-off sense, an outward practice, such as a bold profession)  of our hope ( καλῶς εἶπε τῆς ἐλπίδος , ἐπειδὴ πάντα ἦν ἐν ἐλπίσι τὰ ἀγαθά · οὕτω δὲ αὐτὴν δεῖ κατέχειν , ὡς ἤδη καυχᾶσθαι ὡς ἐπὶ γεγενημένοις : Chrys. See reff. and Rom 5:2 ).