 3 .]  For (the  γάρ is best connected, as commonly, with the κατανοήσατε above: as containing the reason why our attention should be thus fixed on Jesus:  for , though He has the quality of faithfulness in God’s house in common with Moses, yet is He far more exalted and glorious than he. Bleek, understanding αὐτοῦ above of Christ, inclines to connect γάρ immediately with it: “it is  His house, inasmuch as,” &c. But surely a ratiocination so taken up from a pronoun of at least ambiguous reference, would, without something to emphasize αὐτοῦ as = ἑαυτοῦ , be exceedingly obscure to the reader. Others, as De Wette, would join it to the immediately preceding and render it explicatively: but this seems harsh and incoherent)  this person (the transposition in the later MSS. to δόξης οὗτος has probably been made to bring οὗτος παρὰ Μωυσῆν together and πλείονος δόξης . But it is characteristic of our Writer to separate words constructed together by an emphatic word)  hath been held worthy (the word includes, with the idea of ‘  accounting worthy ,’ that also of the  actual bestowal of the dignity. So Philo, of Moses when a child, De Vit. Mos. i. 5, vol. ii. p. 83, τροφῆς οὖν ἤδη βασιλικῆς κ . θεραπείας ἀξιούμενος . And De Decal. § 21, p. 198, τὴν μέντοι προνομίαν ἧς ἐν τοῖς οὖσιν ἑβδομὰς ἠξίωται : Diod. Sic. xix. 11, τὴν δ ʼ Εὐρυδίκην .… ἔκρινε μείζονος ἀξιῶσαι τιμωρίας : Arrian, Var. Hist. xii. 10, τῶν ἀριστείων ἠξιώθησαν . See more examples in Bleek. The word refers to the honour and glory wherewith God hath crowned Christ, in His exaltation to His right Hand; which is taken for granted without further explanation, as a fact well known to the readers)  of more glory (not, “of so much the more:” the construction is as in ch. Hebrews 8:6 , διαφορωτέρας τέτυχεν λειτουργίας , ὅσῳ καὶ κρείττονός ἐστιν διαθήκης μεσίτης )  than (on  παρά after a comparative, see note, ch. Heb 1:4 ),  Moses, inasmuch as (this seems to give καθ ʼ ὅσον very happily, with just the same blending of analogy and inference)  he hath more honour than the house (so is this gen. to be rendered, and not ‘  in ,’ or ‘  from the house ,’ as D-lat., “quanto majorem honorem habet domus is qui præparavit eam:” and so vulg., Luther, but combining with it the other rendering also (  nachdem der eine grossere Ehre am hause hat der es bereitet denn das haus ), Wolf, Peirce, al. This, that the Founder of the house had more glory from, or in the house, than Moses, was not true in fact of Christ: for they of the house had rejected Him. Cf. a very similar comparison in Philo, de Plant. Noë, § 16, vol. i. p. 340, ὅσῳ γὰρ ὁ κτησάμενος τὸ κτῆμα τοῦ κτήματος ἀμείνων , κ . τὸ πεποιηκὸς τοῦ γεγονότος , τοσούτῳ βασιλικώτεροι ἐκεῖνοι . The majority of Commentators take it as above: e. g. Chrys, πλείονα τιμὴν ἔχει τῶν ἔργων ὁ τεχνίτης , ἀλλὰ καὶ τοῦ οἴκου ὁ κατασκευάζων αὐτόν : and Thdrt., ὅση φησὶ ποιήματος πρὸς ποιητὴν διαφορά , τοσαύτη Μωυσέως πρὸς τὸν χριστόν . For the argument, see below)  who established it (“  κατασκευάζειν οἶκον ,” says Bleek, “is not to ‘found a household,’ so that ὁ κατασκευάσας τὸν οἶκον should designate the paterfamilias, a meaning which can hardly be defended: but the formula refers beyond doubt primarily to the erection of an actual house. The word is so used, of the preparation of a building, a house, or temple, or ship, or town, &c., and especially in later Greek. So in our Epistle (in St. Paul it never occurs), besides here and Hebrews 3:4 , as in reff. also. 1Ma 15:3 , κατεσκεύασα πλοῖα πολεμικά : Jos. Vit. § 12, καθαιρεθῆναι τὸν οἶκον ὑπὸ Ἡρώδου … κατασκευασθέντα : Herodian, v. 6. 13, κατεσκεύασε δὲ καὶ ἐν τῷ προαστείῳ νεὼν μέγιστόν τε καὶ πολυτελέστατον : ib. § 22, πύργους τε μεγίστους καὶ ὑψηλοτάτους κατασκευάσας : Plut. Numa, p. 67 A, ἐνταῦθα κατασκευάζεται κατάγειος οἶκος οὐ μέγας : Diod. Sic. xi. 62, ἄλλας τριήρεις πολλὰς κατεσκεύασαν , &c. In almost all these places, the verb may be so taken as to include not only the erection of the building, ship, &c., but also the fitting up, providing with proper furniture ( κατασκευή , σκεύη ), as indeed it is found more expressly used in Attic writers: e. g. Xen. Hiero ii. 2, μεγαλοπρεπεστάτας οἰκίας καὶ ταύτας κατεσκευασμένας τοῖς πλείστου ἀξίοις : id. Anab. iv. 1. 8, ἦσαν δὲ καὶ χαλκώμασι παμπόλλοις κατεσκευασμέναι αἱ οἰκίαι , and al.; Demosth. p. 1208, ἔτι δὲ σκεύεσιν ἰδίοις τὴν ναῦν κατεσκεύασα : p. 689, οἷς κατεσκευασμένην ὁρᾶτε τὴν πόλιν : ib., ὥστε τινὲς μὲν αὐτῶν πολλῶν δημοσίων οἰκοδομημάτων σεμνοτέρας τὰς ἰδίας κατεσκευάκασιν οἰκίας . And here also we may say, that κατασκευάζειν means more than οἰκοδομεῖν οἶκον , and includes, besides the building of the house, the fitting it up, and providing it with all requisites. So that to this κατασκευή of the house belong servants, male and female; and so here we may say that the οἰκέται , the servants of the house, are included. The sense then is this: just as he who has built and furnished a house, for himself namely, as master of the house, stands higher in honour than the house itself and the individual οἰκέται , so does Christ higher than Moses: and Christ is thus represented as he who has prepared the house of God (and therefore as its lord), to whom Moses also belongs, as an individual οἰκέτης . And so Chrys., Œc., &c.” Wetstein and Böhme have proposed a way of taking this verse which is at least specious: viz. to understand ὁ κατασκευάσας not of the Son, but of the Father, and the sentiment to be, inasmuch as he who established the house has more honour than the house,  which honour Christ, as His Son, shares . But however suitable this idea may be in the next verse (see below), it is well answered by Bleek, al., that the insertion of it here would be quite alien from the object of the Writer, who is clearly comparing, directly, Moses and Christ: and that besides, a reference to a sentiment lying out of the immediate path of the argument would be introduced not by καθ ʼ ὅσον , but by πλήν , or ἀλλά (or δέ , as in Heb 3:4 ). I am surprised to find Hofmann and Delitzsch upholding this last-mentioned interpretation as the only right one. Surely the ellipsis of the proposition ‘the honour of the Father belongs to the Son also’ is not for a moment to be assumed. And besides, to suppose οὗτος in this verse, and ὁ κατασκευάσας , not to refer to the same person, would involve a harshness and carelessness of style neither of which belongs to our Writer. See more on next verse).