 12 .]  take heed (on the connexion of this with διό above Hebrews 3:7 , see note there.  βλέπετε is only again found in our Epistle at ch. Hebrews 12:25 . This construction with an indicative future (see reff. on ἔσται ) is hardly, as Bleek, to be explained by the interrogative force of μή : but falls under a class of constructions with ἵνα , ὅπως , ὡς , μή , in which there is a mingling, in case of μή , of the  fear lest it should , and the  suspicion that it will ; and in case of the other particles, of the purpose that it may, and the anticipation that it will. This logical account of the construction is plainer when a past tense is concerned: as in Thuc. iii. 53, φοβούμεθα μὴ ἀμφοτέρων ἅμα ἡμαρτήκαμεν , “We fear lest (  that , in English idiom) we have missed both at once.” See Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 140, and Bernhardy, p. 402: and cf. ref. Col.: and the examples in Bleek),  brethren, lest (on  ποτε not to be pressed as meaning ‘at any time,’ see above on ch. Heb 2:1 )  there shall be (for construction, see above)  in any one of you (not the same as ἐν ὑμῖν . Calvin (see also Schlichting in Bleek) remarks well, “Nec tantum in universum præcipit Apostolus ut sibi omnes caveant, sed vult ita de salute cujusque membri esse sollicitos, ne quem omnino ex iis qui semel vocati fuerint, sua negligentia perire sinant. Atque in eo boni pastoris officium facit, qui ita excubare pro totius gregis salute debet, ut nullam ovem negligat”)  an evil heart of unbelief (the gen.  ἀπιστίας is possessive; an evil heart ( ἀεὶ πλανῶνται τῇ καρδίᾳ ) belonging to, characteristic of, unbelief. This is plain, from the consideration that ἀπιστία is, throughout, the leading idea, cf. Hebrews 3:19 , and ch. Hebrews 4:3 , and not the καρδία πονηρά . Bleek, al. make it a gen. of origin, which in sense comes to the same, but is not so simple in grammar: Calv. (“Significat, conjunctam cum pravitate et malitia  fore incredulitatem”), De W., al. a genitive of result (?), “which leads to unbelief:” this latter is logically wrong: Delitzsch, a qualitative genitive in the widest sense: but this would put ἀπιστίας too much in the background.  ἀπιστία must be kept to its simple primary meaning, not rendered, as Schulz, and Bretschneider and Wahl in their Lexicons,  disobedience ; it was not this, but disbelief in the strictest sense, which excluded them, and against which the Hebrews are warned. That it led on to ἀπείθεια , we all know, but this is not before us here),  in (the element in which the existence of such an evil heart of unbelief would be shewn)  departing (viz. in the sense indicated by the cognate substantive: apostatizing, falling from the faith: see below)  from ( ἀποστῆναι is commonly constructed with ἀπό in N. T. and LXX: reff. 1 Tim., and Wisd. are exceptions. The classical writers usually construct it with a genitive only, as in these two last passages: see Demosth. p. 78. 21, and numerous other examples in Reiske’s index: and Bleek)  the living God (by using this solemn title of God, he not only warns them from Whom, and at what risk, they would depart, but also identifies the God whom they would leave, with Him who had so often called Himself by this name as the distinctive God of Israel, and as contrasted with the dumb and impotent idols of other nations. And thus he shews them that Israel, and the privileges and responsibilities of Israel, were now transferred to the Christian Church, from which if they fell away, they would be guilty of apostasy from the God of Israel. Compare the three other places (reff.) where the term occurs in our Epistle, and the notes there), 