 13 .]  but (  ἀλλά after a negative sentence loses its stronger force of ‘  nevertheless ,’ the contrast already lying in the context: and here the preceding exhortation though really a positive one, βλέπετε , passes as a negative one from the sense, as if it were, ‘Let there not be,’ &c.)  exhort yourselves (so, in a literal rendering, should the word be given, and not “  one another ,” though English idiom may require this latter in a version intended for use. I have already dealt with this supposed ἑαυτ . “  for  ἀλλήλ  . ” on ref. Col.: and Bleek treats of it at some length here. “In the word ἑαυτούς we have merely this: that the action to which the  subject is united, refers to the  subject itself , i. e. to ὑμᾶς . Since however this is a plural idea, a multitude consisting of many members, the words do not express whether an influence is meant which the different members are to exert one upon another, or each one on himself, or each on himself and on others as well: as regards the expression, it is just as general and indefinite as if it were said, ἡ ἐκκλησία παρακαλείτω ἑαυτήν . Still, in the idea of the verb, or otherwise in the context, it may be made clear which of these meanings is intended: and so we find this reflective third person plural frequently used, whether it imply actually the third person, or the first or second, where from the context it can only be taken in the second of the above senses, viz. that of an influence to be exerted, in a body consisting of many members, by one member upon another: where, in other words, ἀλλήλων might stand without change of the sense. So in reff.: and in the best Greek writers, e. g. Xen. Mem. iii. 5. 2, εὐμενεστέρους … ἑαυτοῖς : § 16, οἵγε ἀντὶ μὲν τοῦ συνεργεῖν ἑαυτοῖς τὰ συμφέροντα , ἐπηρεάζουσιν ἀλλήλοις , καὶ φθονοῦσιν ἑαυτοῖς μᾶλλον ἢ τοῖς ἄλλοις ἀνθρώποις : ib. ii. 7. 12, and De Venat. vi. 12, &c. As regards our passage, this certainly is especially meant, that in the Church one should exhort another: yet not excluding the implication, that each one should himself be exhorted by his exhortation of the Church. In Colossians 3:16 , we have the same relation expressed”)  day by day (reff.: so Xen. Mem. iv. 2. 12: De Re Equest. Heb 3:9 al. generally in the classics καθ ʼ ἑκάστην , or καθ ʼ ἡμέραν , elliptically),  as long as ( ἄχρις , connected with ἄκρος , as μέχρι with μακρός , properly means ‘to the height of,’ and hence, ‘  up to ,’ of space, ‘  until ,’ of time. Hence, by a mixed construction, not unfrequently, as here, ‘  as long as ,’ i. e. ‘up to the moment of such or such a state enduring in existence:’ see in reff.)  the (  word ) “  To-day ”  is named (i. e. as long as that period endures, which can be called by the name “  to-day ” as used in the Psalm. That period would be here,  the day of grace ; the short time (see ch. Hebrews 10:25 ; Heb 10:37 ) before the coming of the Lord. And so Chrys.: τὸ γὰρ σήμερον , φησίν , ἀεί ἐστιν ἕως ἂν συνεστήκῃ ὁ κόσμος : on the other hand, many Commentators understand,  the term of their natural life ; so Basil (Ep. 42. 5, vol. iv. p. 130), Thdrt., Thl., Primasius, Erasm., Corn. a-Lapide, al. But the words themselves, τὸ σήμ . καλεῖται , are somewhat ambiguous in meaning. De W. with several others, take  σήμερον as indicating the whole passage of which it is the first word, and  καλεῖται as = κηρύσσεται : so Bengel, “Dum Psalmus iste auditur et legitur.” But this seems neither so simple nor so applicable: seeing that, ch. Hebrews 4:7 , he again calls attention to this  σήμερον not as indicating the whole passages, but as πάλιν τινὰ ὁρίζον ἡμέραν ),  that from among you (emphatic, as contradistinguished from οἱ πατέρες ύμῶν Hebrews 3:9 . This not having been seen, the transposition, as in rec., has taken place)  no one be hardened (as they, Heb 3:8 )  by deceit of (arising out of, belonging to)  his sin (cf. Romans 7:11 , ἡ γὰρ ἁμαρτία .… ἐξηπάτησέν με καὶ .… ἀπέκτεινεν . See also Eph. in reff. ὁρᾷς , says Chrysostom, ὅτι τὴν ἀπιστίαν ἡ ἁμαρτία ποιεῖ . And Œc., ἀπατηθεῖσα διὰ τῆς ἀπιστίας ἣν νῦν ἁμαρτίαν ἐκάλεσεν . In ch. Hebrews 11:25 ; Hebrews 12:4 , ἁμαρτία is similarly used for defection from God).