 15 .] The whole connexion and construction of this verse is very difficult.  I. α . Chrys., Œc., Thl., Erasm. (annot.), Grot., al. suppose a new sentence to begin, and a parenthetical passage to follow from the end of this verse to ch. Hebrews 4:1 , where the sense is taken up again by φοβηθῶμεν οὖν . Besides the contextual objections to this (which see in the connexion below) there are these: 1. that δέ or some such connecting particle would thus be wanted here; 2. that thus the οὖν of ch. Heb 4:1 would be very unnatural. β . Semler, Morus, Storr, De W., Bleek, Tholuck, Lünem., Delitzsch, Winer (§ 63. I. 1, edn. 6), al. still regarding it as the beginning of a new sentence, believe the apodosis to follow at τίνες γάρ , the first question: and justify this use of γάρ at the beginning of a question. But here again the omission of δέ ( ἐν δὲ τῷ λέγ .) would be unnatural, besides that such a γάρ in a question does not seem precedented, when that question is in an apodosis with an ellipsis of λέγω or the like. γ . J. Cappellus, Carpzov, Kuinoel, al. beginning also a sentence at ἐν τῷ λ ., believe the apodosis to commence at μὴ σκληρύνητε , from which words they conceive that the Writer adopts the words of the Psalm as  his own . But thus no good sense is given: ‘Harden not your hearts, because (or while) it is said “To-day &c.” ’ And we should hardly find, in this case, ἐν τῷ παραπικρασμῷ thus standing without further explanation. II. The second class of interpreters are those who join ἐν τῷ λέγ . with the  foregoing . And of these, δ . Bengel, Michaelis, al. regard Heb 3:14 as a parenthesis, and join  ἐν τῷ λέγ  . with Hebrews 3:13 ; “exhort one another,” “as it is said,” or “while it is said,” or even, “by saying.” This must be confessed to be very flat and feeble. ε . The Peschito (“sicuti dictum est”), Primasius, Erasm. (par.), Luther, Calvin, Beza, Estius, Corn. a-Lap., Calov., Seb. Schmidt, Hammond, Wolf, Paulus, Lachmann (in his punctuation), Ebrard, take  ἐν τῷ λέγ  . as immediately connected with what preceded. Of these some, as e. g. Thl., Primasius, Luther, Calvin, Estius, al., connect it with ἕως τέλους “  till the end, while or as long as it is said ,” &c. Others connect it with the whole of the preceding sentence “  if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence, seeing that it is said ,” or “  exhorted by what is said ,” or “  observing what is said .” Ebrard takes the words as a proof that we must hold fast &c. in order to be μέτοχοι χριστοῦ . And I own that this seems to me by far the most natural way, and open to none of the objections which beset the others. I would render then ‘  since it is said ,’ or in more idiomatic English,  for it is said, To-day, if ye hear His voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation . Thus the context goes on smoothly, and the purpose of the whole is to shew, as is summed up in Hebrews 3:12 , that it is the καρδία πονηρὰ  ἀπιστίας which they have above all things to avoid. This argument is now carried forward by taking up the word παραπικρασμῷ , and asking, in a double question, who they were that provoked, and with whom it was that He was offended. But here we are met by a curious phænomenon in Scripture exegesis. It is remarkable that, while all expositors ancient and modern are agreed to take the second  τίσιν interrogatively, as indeed the form of the sentence renders necessary, the whole stream of interpreters down to Bengel, and many since, have taken  τινες demonstratively, not interrogatively. The sense thus obtained would be as follows: indeed, as in E. V., “  For some, when they had heard, did provoke; howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses :” the exceptions being, Caleb and Joshua, and all under twenty years old, and the women and Levites. But if we come to examine, 1. what contextual sense such a sentence can bear, or even, 2. how our Writer would probably have expressed such a meaning, we shall find reason at once to reject the interpretation. For, 1. the purpose here is clearly not to bring out the  exceptions to those who were included in this saying, a process which would have quite defeated the purpose of the exhortation, seeing that the rebellious would be designated merely by τινές , and the exceptions would appear to be by far the greater number: and so every reader might shelter himself under the reflection that he was one of the faithful many, not one of the rebellious τινές . Nor again, 2. would this, as mere matter of fact, have been thus expressed by the Writer. For it obviously was not so. The  τινές were the faithful few, not the rebellious many: ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ ἐν τοῖς πλείοσιν αὺτῶν ηὐδόκησεν ὁ θεός , 1 Corinthians 10:5 . As regards the context, the course of thought is in fact just contrary to what this construction would require. The faithful exceptions are overlooked, and the whole of Israel is included in the παραπικρασμός , to make the exhortation fall more forcibly on the readers.