 10 .]  Wherefore (see above:  διό is inserted, to mark more strongly the reference of τεσς . ἔτη to the preceding. It is impossible, with διό , to join those words to this sentence and understand διό as = διὰ ταῦτα , Estius, Piscator, Grot., &c. Instead of being so anxious, at the expense of the meaning of words, to put our citations straight to the letter, it is far better to recognize at once the truth, for such it is, which Calvin here so boldly states: “Scimus autem apostolos in citandis testimoniis magis attendere ad summam rei, quam de verbis esse solicitos”)  I was offended (  προσοχθίζω and ὀχθίζω are Alexandrine forms peculiar to the LXX. The classical word is ὀχθέω , frequently found in Homer; προσοχθέω is cited in Palm and Rost’s Lexicon from Pisid fragm. (?). The root seems to be ἔχω , from which also we have the cognate word ἄχθος , - ομαι , which, says Passow, differs from ὀχθέω in being always used of a literal and material burden, whereas this is always of a metaphorical and mental one. ἔχθος in all probability is another cognate word similarly derived. The substantive ὄχθη does not seem to be any further connected with ὀχθέω and ὀχθίζω than by derivation from a common root. ὄχθη is that which stands out or protrudes: ὀχθέω , to stand out against to thrust oneself in the way of: “affinis phrasis,  adversum incedere , Leviticus 26:24 ; Leviticus 26:28 ,” Bengel: hence ὄχθαι ποταμοῖο , the banks of a river: so Eustathius, ὄχθος , παρὰ τὸ ἔχειν ( ἐχέχειν ) τοπικὸν ἐπανάστημα : but no nautical metaphor, as “  infringing (impinging?)  upon the shore, running aground ” (Stuart, al., after Suidas, προσώχθικε · προσκέκρουκε , προσκέκοφεν · ἀπὸ τοῦ τὰ ἐπινηχόμενα ταῖς ὄχθαις προσκρούεσθαι ), is to be thought of. Hesychius interprets ( προσοχθισμός , πρόσκρουσις , δεινοπάθεια )  with this generation (the LXX has ἐκείνῃ , as the rec. here: there is no demonstrative in the original Hebrew, בְּדוֹר . I quite think with Böhme and Bleek, that the change is made by our Writer for a set purpose, viz. to extend the saying, by making γενεά thus import the whole Jewish people, over the then living race, as well as that which provoked God in the wilderness. Cf. Matthew 24:34 , and note),  and said, They do always err in their heart (Heb., “  They are a people of wanderers in heart .” Bleek thinks the ἀεί of the LXX is owing to the taking עַם , people, for עוֹלָם , or עַד , or עוֹד , which last Symmachus has translated ἀεί in Psalms 49:10 ; Psa 139:18 ),  but they (in Heb., merely “  and they ,” and so in the LXX-B, καὶ αὐτοὶ οὐκ ἔγν . Our text agrees with the alex. MS., which marks off the clause more strongly with δέ [so also [27] ]. Bengel justifies this: “ הֵם in Hebr. iteratur magna vi. Accentus hic incipiunt hemistichium. Itaque non continetur sub εἶπον  dixi , sed sensus hic est: illi me sibi infensum esse sentiebant, αὐτοὶ δέ ,  iidem tamen nihilo magis vias meas cognoscere voluerunt. Simile antitheton:  illi , et  ego , cap. Hebrews 8:9 , coll. Hebrews 3:10 . Sic,  at illi , Psalms 106:43 ; cf. etiam Luke 7:5 ; Isa 53:7 in Hebr.”)  knew not (aor., as their ignorance preceded their wandering, and is treated as the antecedent fact to it. The  not knowing , where matters of practical religion are concerned, implies the not following)  my ways (i. e. the ways which I would have them to walk in, דְּרָכַי : so Genesis 6:12 ; Exodus 18:20 , σημανεῖς αὐτοῖς τὰς ὁδοὺς ἐν αἷς πορεύσονται , and passim. The meaning given to the clause by Stuart, al., “  They disapproved of (?)  God’s manner of treating them ,” is quite beside the purpose, and surely not contained in the words: see on Romans 7:15 ; 1Co 8:3 ),  as (this ὡς corresponds to the Heb. אֲשֶׁר , which is often used as a conjunction, with various shades of meaning all derivable from its primitive sense, as ‘quod’ in Latin. In Genesis 11:7 , which De W. on the Psalm adduces to justify so  dass , it has a telic force: and so the LXX, ἵνα μὴ ἀκούσωσιν ἕκαστος τὴν φωνὴν τοῦ πλησίον . But it seems hardly to bear the ecbatic, “  so that :” at least I can find no example. The sense here appears to be ‘  according as ,’ ‘in conformity with the fact, that:’ such conformity not necessarily implying that the excluding oath was  prior to the disobedience, but only that the oath and the disobedience were strict correlatives of one another. As the one, so was the other)  I sware (see Num 14:21 reff.; Numbers 32:10 ff.: Deuteronomy 1:34 ff.)  in my wrath (not, ‘  by my wrath,’ though such a rendering would be grammatical (cf. Matthew 5:34 ; Matthew 23:16 ; Revelation 10:6 ; Psa 62:11 ); for such a method of swearing on God’s part is never found),  If they shall enter (this elliptical form of an oath stands for a strong negative: it is sometimes, when  man is the speaker, filled up by “The Lord do so to me and more also, if …” Cf. ref. Mark: 2Sa 3:35 al. It is interpreted below, Hebrews 3:18 ; τίσιν δὲ ὤμοσεν  μὴ εἰσελεύσεσθαι κ . τ . λ .)  into my rest (in the Psalm, and in the places referred to above, the  rest is, primarily, the promised land of Canaan. Œc. says, εἰς τοσοῦτόν φησιν οὐκ ἔγνωσαν τὰς ὁδούς μου , ἕως εἰς τοῦτό με ἤγαγον , ὥστε ὀμόσαι μὴ εἰσελθεῖν αὐτοὺς εἰς τὴν κατάπαυσίν μου , τουτέστι τὴν γῆν τῆς ἐπαγγελίας , ἐν ᾗ εἰσελθόντες ἔμελλον ἀπὸ τῶν πολεμίων ἀναπαύεσθαι . In Deuteronomy 12:9-10 , the words κατάπαυσις and καταπαύσει ὑμᾶς are used of the promised inheritance of Canaan. But it has been well noticed, that after Joshua had led the people into the land, they never in reality enjoyed entirely the rest which had been promised; and in consequence, the meaning of that threat of God opened out before them, and it became plain that more was denounced upon the γενεά than one generation merely could exhaust, more also than the mere not entering into Canaan. Hence the prophetic pregnancy of the oath became evident, and its meaning was carried on in this exhortation by the Psalmist, and is here carried on by the sacred Writer of this Epistle, to a further rest which then remained for Israel, and now still remains for the people of God. Bleek notices the use of κληρονομεῖν τὴν γῆν in the Psalms, as a promise of blessings yet future (cf. Ps. 24:13; Psalms 36:9 , Psalms 36:11 , 22, 29), as pointing the same way: and it is interesting to remember that we have our Lord, in the opening of his ministry, taking up the same strain, and saying, μακάριοι οἱ πραεῖς , ὅτι αὐτοὶ κληρονομήσουσιν τὴν γῆν ):  [27] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .