 7 .]  Wherefore (i. e. seeing that they are the house of Christ if they hold fast their confidence and boast of hope. It has been disputed, what verb is to be connected with,  διό . Some (as Schlichting, J. Cappellus, Heinrichs, Cramer, Kuinoel, Ebrard, al.) join it immediately with μὴ σκληρύνητε , and regard the Writer as making the Spirit’s words his own: but this labours under the great difficulty that in Heb 3:9 the speaker is God Himself, and so an unnatural break is made at the end of Hebrews 3:8 (Delitzsch acknowledges this difficulty, but does not find it insuperable, and adopts the view). Others, as De W. and Tholuck, believe that the construction begun with  διό is dropped, and never finished, as in Romans 15:3 ; Romans 15:21 ; 1Co 1:31 ; 1 Corinthians 2:9 ; supplying after  διό , μὴ σκληρύνητε τὰς καρδ . ὑμ ., or understanding  διό more freely, “wherefore let it be so with you, as” &c. But by far the best way is, with Erasm. (annot.), Calv., Est., Pisc., Grot., Seb. Schmidt, Limborch, Bengel, Peirce, Wetst., Abresch, Böhme, Bleek, Lünem., al., to take the whole citation, including the formula of citation, as a parenthesis, and join  διό with  βλέπετε Hebrews 3:12 . The length of such parenthesis is no objection to this view: see ch. Hebrews 7:20-22 ; Hebrews 12:18-24 , where the Writer, after similar parentheses, returns back into the previous construction. Nor again is it any objection, that in the midst of the citation, another διό occurs, Hebrews 3:10 ; for that διό belongs strictly to the citation, and finds both its preparation and its apodosis within its limits. Nor again, that the sentence beginning with βλέπετε , Hebrews 3:12 , is more an analysis of the citation than an application of it: had this been so, we should more naturally have expected to find βλέπετε οὖν , ch. Heb 12:25 supporting, instead of impugning (as Tholuck) this last reply to the objection),  even as the Holy Spirit saith (in Psalms 95:0 , Heb. and Eng. This Psalm in the Heb. has no writer’s name: in the LXX it is headed, αἶνος ᾠδῆς τῷ Δαυείδ . And it is ascribed to David in ch. Heb 4:7 below. The passage is cited as the direct testimony of the Holy Spirit, speaking through David: cf. reff.),  To-day, if ye hear his voice (“In the Psalm, according to the Hebrew, the words corresponding to these, הַיּוֹם אִם־בְּקֹלוֹ תִשְׁמָעוּ , the second hemistich of the 7th verse, form an independent sentence, to be taken as a powerful exhortation expressed in the form of a wish, אִם ,  o si, utinam , as often. The sense from Heb 3:6 is, ‘Come let us fall down and bow ourselves, kneel before Jehovah our Creator. For He is our God and we the people of his pasture and the flock of his hand.’ Then this sentence follows: ‘O that ye might this day hearken to His voice!’ הַיּוֹם stands first with strong emphasis, in contrast to the whole past time, during which they had shewn themselves disobedient and rebellious against the divine voice, as e. g. during the journey through the wilderness, alluded to in the following verses: ‘to-day’ therefore means ‘  now ,’ ‘  nunc tandem .’ Then in the following verses, to the end of the Psalm, is introduced, in the oratio directa, that which the divine voice, which they are to hear, addresses to them. And it is probable that the LXX took the words in the sense of the Hebrew: at least their rendering of אִם by ἐάν elsewhere gives no sure ground for supposing the contrary, seeing that they often give ἐάν for אִם as  utinam , and that, in places where they would not well have understood it otherwise: e. g. Ps. 138:19. Yet it would be obvious, with such a translation, to take this period not as an independent sentence, but either in close connexion with the preceding period of the 7th ver., as a declaration of the condition of their being His people, or in reference to the following, as a protasis to which Hebrews 3:8 , μὴ σκληρύνητε κ . τ . λ ., forms the apodosis. In this last way the Writer of our Epistle appears to have taken the words, from his beginning his citation with them: and yet more clearly from Hebrews 3:15 , and ch. Hebrews 4:7 .” Bleek: and so De Wette, on the Psalm: and Tholuck and Lünemann: and Calv. as an alternative.  σήμερον will thus refer to the day in which the Psalm was used in public worship, whenever that might be. See below),  harden not your hearts (Heb. heart. Bleek remarks, that this is the only place (in Heb. and LXX: βαρύνειν τ . κ . of the act of man is found Exodus 8:15 ; Exodus 8:32 ; 1Ki 6:6 ) where this expression ‘to harden the heart’ is used of  man’s own act: elsewhere it is always of  God’s act, cf. Exodus 4:21 ; Exodus 7:3 (Exodus 7:22 ; Exo 8:19 ); Exodus 9:12 ( Exo 9:35 ); Exodus 10:20 ; Exodus 10:27 ; Exodus 11:10 ; Exodus 14:4 ; Exodus 14:17 ; Isaiah 63:17 , and τὸ πνεῦμά τινος , Deuteronomy 2:30 ; whereas when the hardening is described as the work of man, the formula σκληρύνειν τὸν τράχηλον αὐτοῦ is used, Deuteronomy 10:16 ; Nehemiah 9:17 ; Nehemiah 9:29 ; 2 Chronicles 30:8 (where however [23] reads τὰς καρδίας ); 2 Chronicles 36:13 ; Jer 7:26 al., or τὸν νῶτον αὐτοῦ , 4 Kings 17:14. For N. T. usage see reff.),  as in the provocation (Heb. כִּמְרִיבָה , “as (at) Meribah.” In Exo 17:1-7 we read that the place where the children of Israel murmured against the Lord for want of water was called Massah and Meribah, καὶ ἐπωνόμασε τὸ ὄνομα τοῦ τόπου ἐκείνου Πειρασμὸς καὶ Λοιδόρησις , LXX. But the subsequent account of Numbers 20:1-13 , makes it plain that the two names refer to two different events and places: and this is further confirmed by Deuteronomy 33:8 , “Thy holy One whom thou didst prove at Massah, and with whom thou didst strive at the waters of Meribah.” In the Psalm these two are mentioned together, and the LXX as usual  translate the names, using here however the uncommon word  παραπικρασμός , for λοιδόρησις , which is their word in Exodus 17:7 , λοιδορία Numbers 20:24 (so [24] [25] ), and ἀντιλογία in Numbers 20:13 (24 Ald.); Numbers 27:14 ; Deuteronomy 32:51 ; Deuteronomy 33:8 ; Psalms 80:7 ; Psalms 105:32 ; the only places where they have preserved the proper name, being in Ezekiel 47:19 ( μαριμώθ ), Ezekiel 48:28 ( βαριμώθ ). In giving, for the proper names, their meaning and occasion, they have in fact cast light upon the sacred text; though it is rather exegesis than strict translation. The word itself,  παραπικρασμός , is supposed by Owen to have found its way into the LXX from this citation: but there is no ground whatever for such a supposition. Though the subst. does not again occur, the verb παραπικραίνω occurs 35 times, and generally of men provoking God to anger. It has also been conjectured by Michaelis, that the LXX may, as they have never rendered Meribah by this word elsewhere, have read מָרָה , Marah, in their Hebrew text here, which they render πικρία in Exodus 15:23 ; Numbers 33:8-9 . This may have been so, but is pure conjecture),  in the time of (the κατά , as the Writer takes it, seems, by Heb 3:16 below, where only the verb παρεπίκραναν introduces the question, not παρεπ . καὶ ἐπείρασαν , to be subordinate to the παραπικρασμός , and as so often, to signify ‘  during ,’ at the time of: so οἱ καθ ʼ ἡμᾶς , our contemporaries, κατὰ Ἄμασιν βαδιλεύοντα , κατ ʼ Ἀλέξανδρον : see Bernhardy, p. 241: Blomf., Glossary on Agam. 342. In the Heb. this second clause is distinct from the first, and introduces a fresh instance: see below)  the day of the temptation in the wilderness (Heb., כְּיוֹם מַסָּה בַּמִּדְבָּר , as in the day of Massah in the wilderness: viz. that of the second murmuring against Moses and Aaron for want of water: see Numbers 20:1-13 . The place was in the wilderness of Sin, near Kadesh: ib. Num 20:1 ),  where (we have the same construction of  οὗ after τῆς ἐρήμου in ref. ὅπου , τουτέστιν ἐν τῇ ἐρήμῳ · ἤ , οὗ ἐπείρασαν πειρασμοῦ , ἵνα ἢ τὸ οὗ ἄρθρον , ἀλλὰ μὴ τόπου δηλωτικόν . Œc. And in this latter way it is taken by Erasm. Schmid, Francke, Bengel, and Peirce. But the former way seems the more likely, on account of the arrangement of the words: if the latter had been intended, the order would more probably have been τοῦ πειρασμοῦ , οὗ ἐπείρασαν .… ἐν τῇ ἐρήμῳ . And the usage of οὗ for ὅπου , though not found elsewhere in this Epistle, is not uncommon in the LXX, cf. Psalms 83:3 ; Ezekiel 21:16 ; Esther 4:3 ; Sir 23:21 , and is found 24 times in the N. T.)  your fathers tempted by way of trial (‘  tempted (  me )  in trying ,’ or ‘  proving (  me ).’ It will be seen that the more difficult reading is sustained by the consent of the most ancient MSS., and expressly supported by Clem.-alex [26] ; who cites the whole passage, and, as is evident by his insertion of διό before προσώχθισα , from our Epistle: and continues, ἡ δὲ δοκιμασία τίς ἐστιν εἰ θέλεις μαθεῖν , τὸ ἅγιόν σοι πνεῦμα ἐξηγήσεται · καὶ εἶδον κ . τ . λ . The idea of such a reading being “an alteration to remove a seeming roughness of style” (Dr. Bloomfield) is simply absurd, the roughness existing not in the received text and LXX, but in the expression ἐπείρασαν ἐν δοκιμασίᾳ . It is very difficult to account for such a reading: and Bleek supposes that it may have existed in the Writer’s copy of the LXX; ἐν δοκιμασίᾳ , i. e. Θ ̅ ΔΟΚΙΜΑϹΙΑ , being written for ΘΔΟΚΙΜΑϹ ̅ Α ̅; and instances ch. Hebrews 10:5 , σῶμα , and ch. Hebrews 12:15 , ἐνοχλῇ , as similar cases. For the usage of the word δοκιμασία , see reff.),  and saw my works (Heb., נַּם־רָאוּ פָעֳלִי , “  moreover they saw my work ” i. e. my penal judgments; so Ewald, and Bleek: and so the word פֹּעַל is used in Psalms 64:10 ; Isaiah 5:12 ; Habakkuk 1:5 ; Habakkuk 3:2 ; for these penal judgments lasted during the forty years, and it is they which are described in the next sentence. The meaning given by most expositors, “  although they saw my works (miracles of deliverance, &c.)  for forty years ,” is not so likely, seeing that these provocations happened at the beginning of the forty years. But see below)  forty years (these words in the Heb. most probably belong, as rendered in our E. V., to what follows: an arrangement rendered impossible here, on account of  διό following. But that such arrangement was not unknown to our Writer is plain, from his presently saying, Hebrews 3:17 , τίσιν δὲ προσώχθισεν τεσσερἀκοντα ἔτη ; It is therefore likely that he did not choose this arrangement without reason. And if we ask what that reason was, we find an answer in the probability that the forty years’ space is taken as representing to the Hebrews their space for repentance; their σήμερον , between the opening of the preaching of the gospel (cf. ch. Heb 2:2 ), and their impending destruction. This idea was recognized by the Jews themselves in their books: e. g. Sanhedr. fol. 99. 1, “R. Eliezer dixit: dies Messiæ sunt 40 anni, sicut dicitur, Quadraginta annos &c., Psalms 95:10 ;” and then follows a proof of it from this passage in the Psalm: Tanchuma, fol. 79. 4, “Quamdiu durant anni Messiæ? R. Akiba dixit, Quadraginta annos, quemadmodum Israelitæ per tot annos in deserto fuerunt.” “And if,” continues Bleek, “this idea of the days of the Messiah was prevalent, that they were the immediate precursors of the עוֹלָם הַבָּא (the age to come) as the time of the great Sabbath-rest, and the completed glory of the people of God, this is something very analogous to the acceptation of the period of the forty years which seems to underlie what is said of them in our Epistle.” If so, it is possible that the meaning of καὶ εἶδον τὰ ἔργα μου above may be, that they saw My wonderful works and took no heed to them, and thereby increased their guilt).
	 [23] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	 [24] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [25] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	 [26]-alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194