 4 .]  For (expansion and justification of ὁ κατασκευάσας )  every house is established by some one (i. e. it belongs to the idea of a house that some one should have built and fitted it up: arrangement implies an arranger, design a designer): but (contrast as passing from the individual to the general)  He which established all things is, God (= God is he which established all things; θεός being the subject, and ὁ τὰ πάντα κατασκ ., the predicate. Before treating of the misunderstanding of this verse by the Fathers, and by many of the moderns, let us endeavour to grasp its true meaning. The last verse brings before us Christ as the κατασκευαστής of the house of God. And this He is, in whatever sense οἶκος be taken: whether on the narrower sense which best suits this present comparison, or in the wider sense implied by the faithful centurion in Matthew 8:9 , in which all natural powers are His οἰκέται . But He is this not by independent will or agency.  δι  ʼ   οὗ καὶ  ἐποίησεν τοὺς αἰῶνας , is our Writer’s own language of the creation by Christ: and it is in accord with that of St. John, where he says πάντα  δι  ʼ   αὐτοῦ ἐγένετο . He,  as the Son , is ὁ κατασκευάσας the house of God the Church, or the world, or the universe; but, apparently (cf. Heb 3:6 ), the former of these: but it is as one with, by virtue of his Sonship, Him who is ὁ πάντα κατασκευάσας , viz. God. And thus the αὐτοῦ , twice repeated in Hebrews 3:5-6 , falls into its own place as belonging both times to God: Moses is His servant, part and portion of His household: Christ is His Son, over His household. And by this reference to God as the πρωτοκατασκευαστής , is the expression above, τῷ ποιήσαντι αὐτόν , illustrated and justified. So that this verse is not quasiparenthetic, as almost all the recent expositors make it e. g. Tholuck, Bleek, Ebrard, Lünemann, but distinctly part of the argument.
	The ancient expositors, almost without exception, take θεός as predicate, and ὁ ( τὰ ) πάντα κατασκευάσας as a designation of Christ “  now He that founded all things, is (must be)  God :” thus making the passage a proof of the deity of Christ. The short-hand writer has apparently here blundered over Chrysostom’s exposition, for it is meagre and confused to the last degree; but Thdrt., Œc., and Thl., so explain it, regarding Heb 3:2 as an assertion of Christ’s superiority to Moses  quoad His human nature, and this verse as regards His divinity. ὅρα πῶς ἤρξατο μὲν τῆς συγκρίσεως ἀπὸ τῆς σαρκός , ἀνέβη δὲ εἰς τὴν θεότητα , καὶ ἀσυγκρίτως ὑπερέχειν τὸν ποιητὴν τοῦ ποιήματος ἔδειξε . And so also Beza, Estius, Cappellus, a-Lapide, Cameron, Seb. Schmidt, Calmet, Bengel (who however as well as Cappellus, takes ὁ as the personal pronoun referring to Christ, and ( τὰ ) πάντα κατασκευάσας as in apposition; but He, who &c., is God), al. But, apart from the extreme harshness and forcing of the construction to bring out this meaning, the sentiment itself is entirely irrelevant here. If the Writer was proving Christ to be greater than Moses inasmuch as He is God, the founder of all things, then clearly the mere assertion of this fact would have sufficed for the proof, without entering on another consideration: nay, after such an assertion, all minor considerations would have been not only superfluous, but preposterous. He does however, after this, distinctly go into the consideration of Christ being faithful not as a servant but as a son: so that he cannot be here speaking of His Deity as a ground of superiority).