 14 .] A reason given for βλέπετε κ . τ . λ ., enforcing the caution; since it is only by endurance that we can become partakers of Christ.
	 For we have become (Bleek remarks, “Our Writer loves the use of this word γέγονα , where he designates a state to which any one has attained, even where it would have been sufficient to have expressed by εἶναι simply the being (  das sich befinden ) in that state.” See reff. But here it is rather perhaps proleptic, looking on to the fulfilment of the condition to be stated)  partakers of Christ (some, e. g. Michaelis, Paulus, Bretschn., De Wette, take these words as τοὺς μετόχους σου ch. Hebrews 1:9 , to signify “  fellow-partakers with Christ ;” but as Bleek remarks, in all the places where our Writer  himself uses μέτοχος with a gen. (ch. Heb 1:9 being a citation), it ever signifies partaker ‘  of ,’ and not ‘  with ,’ that genitive noun. So μετόχους γενηθέντας πνεύματος ἁγίου , ch. Hebrews 6:4 ; also ch. Hebrews 3:1 ; Hebrews 12:8 ; and μετέχειν τινός , ch. Hebrews 2:14 ; Hebrews 5:13 ; Hebrews 7:13 . So Chrys. ( μετέχομεν αὐτοῦ φησιν κ . τ . λ .), Thl. ( μετέχομεν αὐτοῦ ὡς σῶμα κεφαλῆς ), Œc., Primas., Luther, Bengel, Bleek, Lünemann, &c.),  if, that is (  περ is originally the same as περί , and is found as an enclitic in Latin as well as in Greek, in ‘paulisper,’ ‘parumper,’ ‘semper,’ bearing the sense of ‘omnino,’ or the German prefixed  all , in  allda ,  allwo ,  also , &c., and in our ‘  although .’ See an interesting chapter in Hartung ii. 327 344, and Donaldson’s New Cratylus, p. 231 ff.  ἐάνπερ does not occur in St. Paul, nor his usual εἴπερ in this Epistle. We have it in Herod. vi. 57, πατρούχου τε παρθένου πέρι , ἐς τὸν ἱκνέεται ἔχειν , ἢν μή περ ὁ πατὴρ αὐτὴν ἐγγυήση ,  if, that is … ‘si omnino’ …),  we hold fast (see on Heb 3:6 )  the beginning of our confidence (the earlier Commentators, down to Calvin, do not seem to have been aware that  ὑπόστασις has in Hellenistic Greek the signification of ‘  confidence .’ That it has, is now proved beyond a doubt. Thus Polyb. iv. 54. 10, οἱ δὲ Ῥόδιοι , θεωροῦντες τὴν τῶν Βὐζαντίων ὑπόστασιν , πραγματικῶς διενοήθησαν πρὸς τὸ καθικέσθαι τῆς προθέσεως : ib. vi. 55. 2, οὐχ οὕτω τὴν δύναμιν , ὡς τὴν ὑπόστασιν αὐτοῦ καὶ τόλμαν καταπεπληγμένων τῶν ἐναντίων : Diodor. Sic. Excerpta de Virt. et Vit. p. 557, ἡ ἐν τοῖς βασάνοις ὑπόστασις τῆς ψυχῆς καὶ τὸ καρτερικὸν τῆς τῶν δεινῶν ὑπομονῆς περὶ μόνον ἐγενήθη τὸν Ἀριστογείτονα . See more examples in Bleek and Lünemann. Diod. Sic. also uses ὑποστατικός of one who is of a confident nature (xx. 78), and Polyb. v. 16. 4, ὑποστατικῶς . See also notes on reff. 2 Cor. and Hebrews 11:1 , and the reff. in the LXX.
	The Greek Fathers mostly give  ἀρχὴν τῆς ὑποστάσεως the sense of “our faith:” and Chrys. and Thl. explain how they came by this meaning: τὴν πίστιν λέγει δι ʼ ἧς ὑπέστημεν . The Latins also, as vulg., “initium substantiæ ejus,” or as Primasius, “fidem Christi per quam subsistimus et renati sumus, quia ipse est fundamentum omnium virtutum.” And thus, or similarly, many of the moderns, even recently Bisping, “  the beginning of the subsistence of Christ in us .” Calvin himself gives it “fiduciæ vel subsistentiæ.”
	It is somewhat doubtful, whether  τὴν ἀρχὴν τῆς ὑποστ . is to be understood ‘  the beginning of our confidence,’ i. e. our incipient confidence, which has not yet reached its perfection, or, ‘our  former confidence,’ τὴν ὑπόστασιν τὴν ἐξ ἀρχῆς , as 1 Timothy 5:12 , τὴν πρώτην πίστιν ἠθέτησαν [cf. also Rev 2:4 ]. This latter is taken by very many, as Grot., Wolf, Tholuck, Delitzsch, al.: but the other is far better, inasmuch as it keeps the contrast between ἀρχή and τέλος ; ‘if we hold fast this  beginning of our confidence firm until the  end .’ Otherwise, by making ἀρχὴν τῆς = ἀρχαίαν , the contrast vanishes)  firm unto the end (see reff. The  end thought of is, not the death of each individual, but the coming of the Lord, which is constantly called by this name), 