 The Spirit and the bride  (το πνευμα κα η νυμφη). The Holy Spirit, speaking through the prophets or the Spirit of prophecy (Revelation 2:7; Revelation 16:4; Revelation 18:24), joins with the bride (Revelation 21:2), the people of God, in a response to the voice of Jesus just heard. After the picture of heaven in Revelation 22:1-5 there is intense longing (Revelation 19:7) of God's people for the consummation of the marriage of the Lamb and the Bride. So now "the prophets and the saints" (Swete) make a common plea to the Lord Jesus to "come" (Ερχου, present middle imperative of ερχομα, Come on) as he has just said twice that he would do (Revelation 22:1; Revelation 22:12). The call for Christ is to be repeated by every hearer (ο ακουων) as in Revelation 1:3.Let him come  (ερχεσθω). Change of person and this verb applied not to Christ as just before, but to the one who wishes to greet Christ. The thirsty man is bidden to come himself before it is too late. See Revelation 5:6 for διψαω, used for spiritual thirst, and in particular John 6:35; John 7:37 for one thirsting for the water of life (Revelation 21:6; Revelation 22:1). Cf. Isaiah 55:1.He that will  (ο θελων). Even if not yet eagerly thirsting. This one is welcome also. For this use of θελω see Philippians 2:13.Let him take  (λαβετω). Second ingressive aorist active imperative of λαμβανω. In accordance with the free promise in Revelation 21:6, "freely" (δωρεαν) here as there. This gracious and wide invitation is cheering after the gloomy picture of the doomed and the damned. The warnings against the dragon and the two beasts with all their dreadful consequences are meant to deter men from falling victims to all the devil's devices then and now. The door of mercy still stands wide open today, for the end has not yet come. The series of panoramas is over, with the consummation pictured as a reality. Now we drop back to the standpoint before we saw the visions through John's eyes. In verse Revelation 22:17 we hear the voice of the Spirit of God inviting all who hear and see to heed and to come and drink of the water of life freely offered by the Lamb of God. 