6. For—giving the reason for
	1 Peter 4:5, "judge the dead."
	gospel preached also to . . .
	dead—as well as to them now living, and to them that shall be
	found alive at the coming of the Judge. "Dead" must be
	taken in the same literal sense as in 1 Peter 4:5- :, which refutes the explanation "dead" in sins.
	Moreover, the absence of the Greek article does not
	necessarily restrict the sense of "dead" to particular dead
	persons, for there is no Greek article in 1 Peter 4:5- : also, where "the dead" is universal in meaning. The
	sense seems to be, Peter, as representing the true attitude of the
	Church in every age, expecting Christ at any moment, says, The Judge
	is ready to judge the quick and dead—the dead, I say, for
	they, too, in their lifetime, have had the Gospel preached to them,
	that so they might be judged at last in the same way as those living
	now (and those who shall be so when Christ shall come), namely, "men
	in the flesh," and that they might, having escaped condemnation
	by embracing the Gospel so preached, live unto God in the spirit
	(though death has passed over their flesh), 1 Peter 4:5- :, thus being made like Christ in death and in life (see on
	1 Peter 3:18). He says, "live,"
	not "made alive" or quickened; for they are supposed to
	have been already "quickened together with Christ" (1 Peter 3:18- :). This verse is parallel to 1 Peter 3:18- :; compare Note, see on 1 Peter 3:18- :. The Gospel, substantially, was "preached" to the
	Old Testament Church; though not so fully as to the New Testament
	Church. It is no valid objection that the Gospel has not been
	preached to all that shall be found dead at Christ's coming.
	For Peter is plainly referring only to those within reach of the
	Gospel, or who might have known God through His ministers in Old and
	New Testament times. Peter, like Paul, argues that those found living
	at Christ's coming shall have no advantage above the dead who
	shall then be raised, inasmuch as the latter live unto, or
	"according to," God, even already in His purpose.
	ALFORD'S explanation is
	wrong, "that they might be judged according to men as regards
	the flesh," that is, be in the state of the completed
	sentence on sin, which is death after the flesh. For
	"judged" cannot have a different meaning in this verse from
	what "judge" bears in 1 Peter 3:18- :. "Live according to God" means, live a life with
	God, such as God lives, divine; as contrasted with "according
	to men in the flesh," that is, a life such as men live in the
	flesh.