This then is [και αυτη εστιν] . Rev., correctly and literally, and this. According to the proper reading the verb stands first in order [εστιν αυτη] , with emphasis, not merely as a copula, but in the sense "there exists this as the message." For a similar use of the substantive verb, see 1 John 5:16, 1 John 5:17; 1 John 2:15; John 8:50. Message [επαγγελια] . This word, however, is invariably used in the New Testament in the sense of promise. The best texts read ajggelia, message, which occurs only at 1 John 3:11; and the corresponding verb, ajggellw, only at John 10:18. We have heard of Him (ajkhkoamen ajp' aujtou). A form of expression not found elsewhere in John, who commonly uses par' aujtou. See on John 6:46 The phrase here points to the ultimate and not necessarily the immediate source of the message. Not only John, but others in earlier times had heard this message. Compare 1 Peter 1:10, 1 Peter 1:11. Apo points to the source para to the giver. Thus, John 5:41, "I receive not honor from [παρα] men." They are not the bestowers of honor upon me. Ver. 44, "How can ye believe which receive honor from [παρα] one another;" the honor which men have to give, "and seek not the honor that cometh from [παρα] God;" the honor which God alone bestows. On the other hand, 1 John 3:22, "Whatsoever we ask we receive from [απο] Him," the ultimate source of our gifts. So Matthew 17:25 : "Of [απο] whom do the kings of the earth take custom - of [απο] their own children or of [απο] strangers ?" What is the legitimate and ultimate source of revenue in states ? Declare [αναγγελλομεν] . Compare the simple verb ajggellein to bring tidings, John 20:18, and only there. 'Anaggellein is to bring the tidings up to [ανα] or back to him who receives them. Apagellein is to announce tidings as coming from [απο] some one, see Matthew 2:8; John 4:51. Kataggellein is to proclaim with authority, so as to spread the tidings down among [κατα] those who hear. See Acts 17:23. Found only in the Acts and in Paul. God is Light [θεος φως εστιν] . A statement of the absolute nature of God. Not a light, nor the light, with reference to created beings, as the light of men, the light of the world, but simply and absolutely God is light, in His very nature. Compare God is spirit, and see on John 4:24 : God is love, 1 John 4:8, 1 John 4:16. The expression is not a metaphor. "All that we are accustomed to term light in the domain of the creature, whether with a physical or metaphysical meaning, is only an effluence of that one and only primitive Light which appears in the nature of God" (Ebrard). Light is immaterial, diffusive, pure, and glorious. It is the condition of life. Physically, it represents glory; intellectually, truth; morally, holiness. As immaterial it corresponds to God as spirit; as diffusive, to God as love; as the condition of life, to God as life; as pure and illuminating, to God as holiness and truth. In the Old Testament, light is often the medium of God 's visible revelations to men. It was the first manifestation of God in creation. The burning lamp passed between the pieces of the parted victim in God 's covenant with Abraham. God went before Israel in a pillar of fire, descended in fire upon Sinai, and appeared in the luminons cloud which rested on the mercy - seat in the most holy place. In classical Greek fwv light, is used metaphorically for delight, deliverance, victory, and is applied to persons as a term of admiring affection, as we say that one is the light of our life, or the delight of our eyes. So Ulysses, on seeing his son Telemachus, says, "Thou hast come, Telemachus, sweet light [γλυκερον φαος] " (Homer, "Odyssey," 16 23). And Electra, greeting her returning brother, Orestes, "O dearest light [φιλτατον φως] " (Sophocles, "Electra," 1223). Occasionally, as by Euripides, of the light of truth (" Iphigenia at Tauris, "1046). No modern writer has developed the idea of God as light with such power and beauty as Dante. His" Paradise "might truthfully be called a study of light. Light is the only visible expression of God. Radiating from Him, it is diffused through the universe as the principle of life. This key - note is struck at the very opening of" the Paradise. " " The glory of Him who moveth everything Doth penetrate the universe, and shine In one part more and in another less. Within that heaven which most His light receives Was 1 "" Paradiso," 1, 1 - 5. In the final, beatific vision, God Himself is imagined as a luminous point which pours its rays through all the spheres, upon which the spirits gazed, and in which they read the past, the present, and the future. "O grace abundant, by which I presumed To fix my sight upon the Light Eternal, So that the seeing I consumed therein! I saw that in its depth far down is lying Bound up with love together in one volume, What through the universe in leaves is scattered; Substance, and accident, and their operations, All interfused together in such wise That what I speak of is one simple light." " Paradiso, " 33, 82 - 90. "In presence of that light one such becomes, That to withdraw therefrom for other prospect It is impossible he e'er consent; Because the good, which object of will, Is gathered all in this, and out of it That is defective which is perfect there." " Paradiso, " 33, 100 - 105. "O Light eterne, sole in thyself that dwellest, Sole knowest thyself, and, know unto thyself And knowing, lovest and smilest on thyself!" Paradiso 33, 124 - 126. Light enkindles love. " If in the heat of love I flame upon thee Beyond the measure that on earth is seen, So that the valor of thine eyes I vanquish, Marvel thou not thereat; for this proceeds From perfect sight, which, as it apprehends, To the good apprehended moves its feet. Well I perceive how is already shining Into thine intellect the eternal Light, That only seen enkindles always love. "" Paradiso," 5, 1 - 9 See also "Paradiso," cantos 30, 31. In Him is no darkness at all [και σκοτια ουκ εστιν εν αυτω ουδεμια] . It is characteristic of John to express the same idea positively and negatively. See John 1:7, John 1:8, John 1:20; John 3:15, John 3:17, John 3:20; John 4:42; John 5:2 John 5:4; John 8:35; John 10:28; 1 John 1:6, 1 John 1:8; 1 John 2:4, 1 John 2:27; 1 John 5:12. According to the Greek order, the rendering is : "And darkness there is not in Him, no, not in any way." For a similar addition of ouJudeiv not one, to a complete sentence, see John 6:63; John 11:19; John 19:11. On skotia darkness, see on John 1:5.