This chapter embraces the following points:I. The salutation to the church, Philippians 1:1-2.II. In Philippians 1:3-8, the apostle expresses his gratitude for the evidence which they had given of love to God, and for their fidelity in the gospel from the time when it was first proclaimed among them. He says that he was confident that this would continue, and that God, who had so mercifully imparted grace to them to be faithful, would do it to the end.III. He expresses the earnest hope that they might abound more and more in knowledge, and be without offence to the day of Christ; Philippians 1:9-11.IV. In Philippians 1:12-21, he states to them what had been the effect of his imprisonment in Rome - presuming that in would be grateful intelligence to them that even his imprisonment had been overruled for the spread of the gospel. His trials, he says, had been the means of the extension of the knowledge of Christ even in the palace, and many Christians had been emboldened by his sufferings to increased diligence in making known the truth. Some, indeed, he says, preached Christ from unworthy motives, and with a view to increase his affliction, but in the great fact that Christ was preached, he says, he rejoiced. Forgetting himself and any injury which they might design to do to him, he could sincerely rejoice that the gospel was proclaimed - no matter by whom or with what motives. The whole affair he trusted would be made conducive to his salvation. Christ was the great end and aim of his life; and if he were made known everything else was of minor importance.V. The mention of the fact Philippians 1:21 that his great aim in living was “Christ.” leads him to advert to the probability that he might soon be with him; Philippians 1:22-26. So great was his wish to be with him, that he would hardly know which to choose - whether to die at once, or to live and to make him known to others. Believing, however, that his life might be still useful to them, he had an expectation of considerable confidence that his life would be spared, and that he would be released.VI. The chapter closes, Philippians 1:27-30, with an earnest exhortation that they would live as became the gospel of Christ. Whatever might befall him - whether he should be permitted to see them, or should hear of them, he entreated that he might know that they were living as became the gospel. They were not to he afraid of their adversaries; and if called to suffer, they were to remember that “it was given” them not only to believe on the Redeemer, but also to suffer in his cause.