40. And the King shall answer and
	say unto them, Verily I say unto you, c.—Astonishing dialogue
	this between the King, from the Throne of His glory, and His
	wondering people! "I was an hungered, and ye gave Me meat,"
	&c.—"Not we," they reply. "We never did that,
	Lord: We were born out of due time, and enjoyed not the privilege of
	ministering unto Thee." "But ye did it to these My
	brethren, now beside you, when cast upon your love." "Truth,
	Lord, but was that doing it to Thee? Thy name was indeed dear to us,
	and we thought it a great honor to suffer shame for it. When among
	the destitute and distressed we discerned any of the household of
	faith, we will not deny that our hearts leapt within us at the
	discovery, and when their knock came to our dwelling, 'our bowels
	were moved,' as though 'our Beloved Himself had put in His hand by
	the hole of the door.' Sweet was the fellowship we had with them, as
	if we had 'entertained angels unawares' all difference between giver
	and receiver somehow melted away under the beams of that love of
	Thine which knit us together; nay, rather, as they left us with
	gratitude for our poor givings, we seemed the debtors—not they.
	But, Lord, were we all that time in company with Thee? . . . Yes,
	that scene was all with Me," replies the King—"Me in the
	disguise of My poor ones. The door shut against Me by others was
	opened by you—'Ye took Me in.' Apprehended and imprisoned by the
	enemies of the truth, ye whom the truth had made free sought Me out
	diligently and found Me; visiting Me in My lonely cell at the risk of
	your own lives, and cheering My solitude; ye gave Me a coat, for I
	shivered; and then I felt warm. With cups of cold water ye moistened
	My parched lips; when famished with hunger ye supplied Me with
	crusts, and my spirit revived—/YE
	DID IT UNTO ME.'"
	What thoughts crowd upon us as we listen to such a description of the
	scenes of the Last Judgment! And in the light of this view of the
	heavenly dialogue, how bald and wretched, not to say unscriptural, is
	that view of it to which we referred at the outset, which makes it a
	dialogue between Christ and heathens who never heard of His
	name, and of course never felt any stirrings of His love in their
	hearts! To us it seems a poor, superficial objection to the Christian
	view of this scene, that Christians could never be supposed to ask
	such questions as the "blessed of Christ's Father" are made
	to ask here. If there were any difficulty in explaining this, the
	difficulty of the other view is such as to make it, at least,
	insufferable. But there is no real difficulty. The surprise expressed
	is not at their being told that they acted from love to Christ, but
	that Christ Himself was the Personal Object of all
	their deeds: that they found Him hungry, and supplied Him with
	food: that they brought water to Him, and slaked His thirst;
	that seeing Him naked and shivering, they put warm clothing
	upon Him, paid Him visits when lying in prison for the truth,
	and sat by His bedside when laid down with sickness. This is
	the astonishing interpretation which Jesus says "the King"
	will give to them of their own actions here below. And will any
	Christian reply, "How could this astonish them? Does not every
	Christian know that He does these very things, when He does them at
	all, just as they are here represented?" Nay, rather, is it
	conceivable that they should not be astonished, and almost
	doubt their own ears, to hear such an account of their own actions
	upon earth from the lips of the Judge? And remember, that Judge has
	come in His glory, and now sits upon the throne of His glory, and all
	the holy angels are with Him; and that it is from those glorified
	Lips that the words come forth, "Ye did all this unto ME."
	Oh, can we imagine such a word addressed to ourselves, and
	then fancy ourselves replying, "Of course we did—To whom else
	did we anything? It must be others than we that are addressed, who
	never knew, in all their good deeds, what they were about?"
	Rather, can we imagine ourselves not overpowered with astonishment,
	and scarcely able to credit the testimony borne to us by the King?