Came to himself. A striking expression, putting the state of rebellion against God as a kind of madness. It is a wonderful stroke of art, to represent the beginning of repentence as the return of a sound consciousness. Ackermann (" Christian Element in Plato ") observes that Plato thinks of redemption as a coming to one's self; an apprehending of one's self as existent; as a severing of the inmost being from the surrounding element. Several passages of Plato are very suggestive on this point. "He who bids a man know himself, would have him know his soul" (" Alcibiades, "1, 130)." 'To see her (the soul) as she really is, not as we now behold her, marred by communion with the body and other miseries, you should look upon her with the eye of reason, in her original purity, and then her beauty would be discovered, and in her image justice would be more clearly seen, and injustice, and all the things which we have described. Thus far we have spoken the truth concerning her as she appears at present; but we must remember also that we have seen her only in a condition which may be compared to that of the sea - God Glaucus, whose original image can hardly be discerned, because his natural members are broken off and crushed, and in many ways damaged by the waves; and incrustations have grown over them of sea - weed and shells and stones, so that he is liker to some sea - monster than to his natural form. And the soul is in a similar condition, disfigured by ten thousand ills : but not there, Glaucon, not there must we look' "'Where, then?'" 'At her love of wisdom. Let us see whom she affects, and what converse she seeks, in virtue of her near kindred with the immortal and eternal and divine; also, how different she would become, if wholly following this superior principle, and born by a divine impulse out of the ocean in which she now is, and disengaged from the stones and shells and things of earth and rock, which, in wild variety, grow around her, because she feeds upon earth, and is crusted over by the good things of this life as they are termed. Then would you see her as she is' "(" Republic," 611). Have bread enough and to spare [περισσευονται αρτων] . Lit., abound in loaves. Wyc., plenty of loaves. Perish. Better, I am perishing. The best texts insert w=de, here, in contrast with the father 's house, suggested by the father 's servants.