37. Art thou a king then?—There
	was no sarcasm or disdain in this question (as THOLUCK,
	ALFORD, and others,
	allege), else our Lord's answer would have been different. Putting
	emphasis upon "thou," his question betrays a mixture
	of surprise and uneasiness, partly at the possibility
	of there being, after all, something dangerous under the claim, and
	partly from a certain awe which our Lord's demeanor probably struck
	into him. 
	Thou sayest that I am a
	king—It is even so. 
	To this end was I—"have
	I been." 
	born and for this cause came
	I—am I come. 
	into the world, that I may
	bear witness to the truth—His birth expresses His
	manhood; His coming into the world, His existence before
	assuming humanity: The truth, then, here affirmed, though Pilate
	would catch little of it, was that His Incarnation was expressly
	in order to the assumption of Royalty in our nature. Yet, instead
	of saying, He came to be a King, which is His meaning, He says He
	came to testify to the truth. Why this? Because, in such
	circumstances it required a noble courage not to flinch from His
	royal claims; and our Lord, conscious that He was putting forth
	that courage, gives a turn to His confession expressive of it. It
	is to this that Paul alludes, in those remarkable words to Timothy:
	"I charge thee before God, who quickeneth all things, and before
	Christ Jesus, who, in the presence of Pontius Pilate,
	witnessed the good confession" ( :-). This one act of our Lord's life, His courageous
	witness-bearing before the governor, was selected as an encouraging
	example of the fidelity which Timothy ought to display. As the
	Lord (says OLSHAUSEN
	beautifully) owned Himself the Son of God before the most
	exalted theocratic council, so He confessed His regal dignity
	in presence of the representative of the highest political authority
	on earth. 
	Every one that is of the
	truth heareth my voice—Our Lord here not only affirms that His
	word had in it a self-evidencing, self-recommending power, but gently
	insinuated the true secret of the growth and grandeur of His
	kingdom—as A KINGDOM
	OF TRUTH, in its highest sense, into which all souls who have
	learned to live and count all things but loss for the truth are, by a
	most heavenly attraction, drawn as into their proper element; THE
	KING of whom Jesus is,
	fetching them in and ruling them by His captivating power over their
	hearts.