27. Peter then denied again—But,
	if the challenge of Malchus' kinsman was made simultaneously with
	this on account of his Galilean dialect, it was no simple denial; for
	Matthew 26:74 says, "Then
	began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man."
	So Mark 14:71. This was THE
	THIRD DENIAL. 
	and immediately—"while
	he yet spake" (Luke 22:60).
	the cock crew—As Mark
	is the only Evangelist who tells us that our Lord predicted that the
	cock should crow twice (Luke 22:60- :), so he only mentions that it did crow twice (Luke 22:60- :). The other Evangelists, who tell us merely that our Lord
	predicted that "before the cock should crow he would deny Him
	thrice" (Matthew 26:34; Luke 22:34;
	John 13:38), mention only one
	actual crowing, which was Mark's last. This is something
	affecting in this Evangelist—who, according to the earliest
	tradition (confirmed by internal evidence), derived his materials so
	largely from Peter as to have been styled his "interpreter,"
	being the only one who gives both the sad prediction and its
	still sadder fulfilment in full. It seems to show that Peter
	himself not only retained through all his after-life the most vivid
	recollection of the circumstances of his fall, but that he was
	willing that others should know them too. The immediately subsequent
	acts are given in full only in Luke (Luke 22:61;
	Luke 22:62): "And the Lord
	turned and looked upon Peter," from the hall of judgment to the
	court, in the way already explained. But who can tell what lightning
	flashes of wounded love and piercing reproach shot from that "look"
	through the eye of Peter into his heart! "And Peter remembered
	the word of the Lord, how He had said unto him, Before the cock crow,
	thou shalt deny Me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly."
	How different from the sequel of Judas' act! Doubtless the hearts of
	the two men towards the Saviour were perfectly different from the
	first; and the treason of Judas was but the consummation of the
	wretched man's resistance of the blaze of light in the midst of which
	he had lived for three years, while Peter's denial was but a
	momentary obscuration of the heavenly light and love to his Master
	which ruled his life. But the immediate cause of the revulsion, which
	made Peter "weep bitterly," was, beyond all doubt, this
	heart-piercing "look" which his Lord gave him. And
	remembering the Saviour's own words at the table, "Simon, Simon,
	Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat, but
	I have prayed [rather, 'I prayed'] for thee that thy faith
	fail not" (see on Luke 22:62- :), may we not say that this prayer fetched down all that
	there was in that 'look' to pierce and break the heart of. Peter,
	to keep it from despair, to work in it "repentance unto
	salvation not to be repented of," and at length, under other
	healing touches, to "restore his soul?" (See on Luke 22:62- :). 
	Luke 22:62- :. JESUS BEFORE
	PILATE. 
	 Note.—Our
	Evangelist, having given the interview with Annas, omitted by the
	other Evangelists, here omits the trial and condemnation before
	Caiaphas, which the others had recorded. (See on Luke 22:62- :). [The notes broken off there at Luke 22:62- : are here concluded]. Luke 22:62- :: 
	 Luke 22:62- :: 
	 The
	high priest asked Him, Art Thou the Christ, the Son of the
blessed?
—Matthew says the high priest put
	Him upon solemn oath, saying, "I
	adjure Thee by the living God that Thou tell us whether Thou be the
	Christ, the Son of God" (Luke 22:62- :). This rendered an answer by our Lord legally necessary (Luke 22:62- :). Accordingly, Mark 14:62:
	
	 Jesus
	said, I am —"Thou
	hast said" (Matthew 26:64). In
	Luke 22:67; Luke 22:68,
	some other words are given, "If I tell you, ye will not believe;
	and if I also ask you, ye will not answer Me, nor let Me go."
	This seems to have been uttered before
	giving His direct answer, as a calm remonstrance and dignified
	protest against the prejudgment of His case and the unfairness of
	their mode of procedure. 
	 and
	ye shall see the Son of man, 
	c.—This concluding part of our Lord's answer is given somewhat more
	fully by Matthew and Luke. "Nevertheless I say unto you,
	Hereafter [rather, 'From henceforth'] shall ye see the Son of man
	sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of
	heaven" (Matthew 26:64 Luke 22:69).
	—that is, I know the scorn with which ye are ready to meet such an
	avowal: To your eyes, which are but eyes of flesh, there stands at
	this bar only a mortal like yourselves, and He at the mercy of the
	ecclesiastical and civil authorities: "Nevertheless,"
	a day is coming when ye shall see another sight: Those eyes, which
	now gaze on Me with proud disdain, shall see this very prisoner at
	the right hand of the Majesty on high, and coming in the clouds of
	heaven: Then shall the judged One be revealed as the Judge, and His
	judges in this chamber appear at His august tribunal; then shall the
	unrighteous
	judges be impartially
	judged; and while they are wishing that they had never been born, He
	for whom they now watch as their Victim shall be greeted with the
	hallelujahs of heaven, and the welcome of Him that sitteth upon the
	throne! Mark 14:63; Mark 14:64:
	
	 Then
	the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we any
further witnesses? Ye have heard
	the blasphemy —"of
	his own mouth" (Luke 22:71);
	an affectation of religious horror. 
	 What
	think ye? —"Say, what verdict would ye
	pronounce." 
	 They
	all condemned Him to be guilty of death
—of a capital crime. (See Luke 22:71- :). Mark 14:65: 
	 And
	some began to spit on Him —"Then
	did they spit in His face" (Mark 14:65- :). See Isaiah 50:6. 
	 And
	to cover His face, and to buffet Him, and to say unto Him,
Prophesy —or, "divine," "unto
	us, Thou Christ, who is he that smote Thee?" The sarcasm in
	styling Him the Christ, and as such demanding of Him the
	perpetrator of the blows inflicted upon Him, was in them as infamous
	as to Him it was stinging. 
	and
	the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands
—"And many other things
	blasphemously spake they against him" (Isaiah 50:6- :). This general statement is important, as showing that
	virulent and varied as were the recorded
	affronts put upon Him, they are but a small
	specimen of what He endured on that
	black occasion. 
	