1. This episode ( :-) describes in detail the persecution of Israel
	and the elect Church by the beast, which had been summarily
	noticed, Revelation 11:7-10,
	and the triumph of the faithful, and torment of the unfaithful. So
	also the sixteenth through twentieth chapters are the description in
	detail of the judgment on the beast, c., summarily noticed in Revelation 11:13
Revelation 11:18. The beast in Revelation 11:18- :, c., is shown not to be alone, but to be the instrument in
	the hand of a greater power of darkness, Satan. That this is so,
	appears from the time of the eleventh chapter being the period also
	in which the events of the twelfth and thirteenth chapters take
	place, namely, 1260 days (Revelation 12:6
Revelation 12:14; Revelation 13:5;
	compare Revelation 11:2; Revelation 11:3).
	great—in size and
	significance. 
	wonder—Greek,
	"sign": significant of momentous truths. 
	in heaven—not merely
	the sky, but the heaven beyond just mentioned, Revelation 11:3- :; compare Revelation 11:3- :. 
	woman clothed with the sun .
	. . moon under her feet—the Church, Israel first, and then the
	Gentile Church; clothed with Christ, "the Sun of righteousness."
	"Fair as the moon, clear as the sun." Clothed with the Sun,
	the Church is the bearer of divine supernatural light in the world.
	So the seven churches (that is, the Church universal, the woman) are
	represented as light-bearing candlesticks (Revelation 1:12;
	Revelation 1:20). On the other hand, the
	moon, though standing above the sea and earth, is altogether
	connected with them and is an earthly light: sea, earth, and
	moon represent the worldly element, in opposition to the
	kingdom of God—heaven, the sun. The moon cannot disperse the
	darkness and change it into-day: thus she represents the world
	religion (heathenism) in relation to the supernatural world. The
	Church has the moon, therefore, under her feet; but the stars, as
	heavenly lights, on her head. The devil directs his efforts against
	the stars, the angels of the churches, about hereafter to shine for
	ever. The twelve stars, the crown around her head, are the twelve
	tribes of Israel [AUBERLEN].
	The allusions to Israel before accord with this: compare Revelation 1:20- :, "the temple of God"; "the ark of His
	testament." The ark lost at the Babylonian captivity, and never
	since found, is seen in the "temple of God opened in heaven,"
	signifying that God now enters again into covenant with His ancient
	people. The woman cannot mean, literally, the virgin mother of Jesus,
	for she did not flee into the wilderness and stay there for 1260
	days, while the dragon persecuted the remnant of her seed (Revelation 1:20- :) [DE BURGH].
	The sun, moon, and twelve stars, are emblematical of
	Jacob, Leah, or else Rachel, and the twelve patriarchs, that is, the
	Jewish Church: secondarily, the Church universal, having under her
	feet, in due subordination, the ever changing moon, which shines
	with a borrowed light, emblem of the Jewish dispensation,
	which is now in a position of inferiority, though supporting the
	woman, and also of the changeful things of this world, and having on
	her head the crown of twelve stars, the twelve apostles, who,
	however, are related closely to Israel's twelve tribes. The Church,
	in passing over into the Gentile world, is (1) persecuted; (2) then
	seduced, as heathenism begins to react on her. This is the key to the
	meaning of the symbolic woman, beast, harlot, and false prophet.
	Woman and beast form the same contrast as the Son of
	man and the beasts in Daniel. As the Son of man comes from
	heaven, so the woman is seen in heaven (Revelation 1:20- :). The two beasts arise respectively out of the sea
	(compare Daniel 7:3) and the
	earth (Revelation 13:1; Revelation 13:11):
	their origin is not of heaven, but of earth earthy. Daniel beholds
	the heavenly Bridegroom coming visibly to reign. John sees the woman,
	the Bride, whose calling is heavenly, in the world, before the Lord's
	coming again. The characteristic of woman, in contradistinction to
	man, is her being subject, the surrendering of herself, her being
	receptive. This similarly is man's relation to God, to be subject to,
	and receive from, God. All autonomy of the human spirit reverses
	man's relation to God. Woman-like receptivity towards God constitutes
	faith. By it the individual becomes a child of God; the
	children collectively are viewed as "the woman."
	Humanity, in so far as it belongs to God, is the woman.
	Christ, the Son of the woman, is in Revelation 13:11- : emphatically called "the MAN-child"
	(Greek, "huios arrheen," "male-child").
	Though born of a woman, and under the law for man's sake, He is also
	the Son of God, and so the HUSBAND
	of the Church. As Son of the woman, He is "'Son of man"; as
	male-child, He is Son of God, and Husband of the Church. All
	who imagine to have life in themselves are severed from Him, the
	Source of life, and, standing in their own strength, sink to the
	level of senseless beasts. Thus, the woman designates
	universally the kingdom of God; the beast, the kingdom of the world.
	The woman of whom Jesus was born represents the Old Testament
	congregation of God. The woman's travail-pains (Revelation 13:11- :) represent the Old Testament believers' ardent longings for
	the promised Redeemer. Compare the joy at His birth (Revelation 13:11- :). As new Jerusalem (called also "the woman," or
	"wife," Revelation 21:2;
	Revelation 21:9-12), with its
	twelve gates, is the exalted and transfigured Church, so the woman
	with the twelve stars is the Church militant.