 19. ] This answer of our Lord has been involved in needless difficulty. That [in uttering the words τὸν ναὸν τοῦτον ] He  pointed to His own Body, is inconceivable; for thus both the Jews and His own disciples must have understood Him, which (see John 2:20 ; Joh 2:22 ) neither of them did. That He implied [in saying Λύσατε τ . ν . τ .]  that their lawless proceedings in the temple would at last bring it to an end , is equally inconceivable; both on account of the latter part of His declaration, which would thus have no meaning, and because of the use of the word  ναός  , which was  the holy and the holiest place , the  temple itself , as distinguished from  τὸ ἱερόν  , the whole enceinte of the sacred buildings. Stier has well remarked (i. 48, 49, edn. 2) that our Lord in this saying  comprehended in the reality , His own Body,  its type and symbol , the temple then before them. That temple, with all its ordinances and holy places, was but the shadow of the Christian Church; that, the type of the Body of the Lord, represented the Church, which is  veritably His Body . And so the saying was fulfilled by the slaying of His actual Body, in which rejection of Him the destruction of the Jewish temple and city was involved, and the raising of that Body after three days, in which resurrection we, all the members of His new glorified Body, are risen again. It is for want of keeping in mind this width and depth of the Lord’s sayings, that so many Commentators have fallen into error here and elsewhere in interpreting them. Most of the best German expositors, e.g. Lücke, Neander (L. J. 283), and even Olshausen, find insuperable difficulty in the  exposition given by the Evangelist of these words , and even contend that it  could not have been the right one . But surely those who believe the Apostles to have been under the special influence of the Holy Spirit in their work of witnessing to and bringing out the truth of the sayings and doings of the Lord, cannot take this ground. It is a wholly distinct matter from a chronological inaccuracy, or a report of the same occurrence varying in minor details; such things the Spirit may have, and has as matter of fact, for special reasons permitted in the Evangelists; but we have here, assumed the genuineness of our Gospel, on which none of these writers have a doubt,  the positive declaration of an Apostle (and what an Apostle)  of the meaning of the Lord’s saying; which I do not think we are at liberty to question, on any, even the most moderate view, of the inspiration of the Scriptures. The difficulties attending the interpretation are, besides the double meaning which I have treated above, (1)  the use of the imperative, as applied to the death of Christ . Olshausen contends that it must be mandatory, and cannot be hypothetical. But surely Mat 12:33 is an instance in point, as adduced by De Wette, for the hypothetical meaning: and usages exactly like that in our text are found in the reff. (v): see Winer, Gram. edn. 6, § 43. 2. (2)  The words  ἐγερῶ αὐτόν  , seeing that the resurrection of the Lord is ever spoken of as  the work of the Father . Yes, but by power committed to Christ Himself: see ch. John 10:18 , where this is distinctly asserted; and ch. John 6:39-40 ; John 6:44 , where it is implied, for He is the first fruits of them that sleep, and (though the whole course of His working was after the will of the Father, and in the Spirit, which wrought in Him) strictly and truly  raised Himself from the dead in the sense here intended. (3)  The utterance of such a prophecy at so early a period of His official life . But it was not a prophecy known and understood, but a  dark saying , from which no one could then draw an inference as to His death or resurrection. The disciples did not understand it; and I cannot agree with Stier that the Jews could have had any idea of such being His meaning. Chrys. (Hom. xxiii. in Joan. p. 134) says, πολλὰ τοιαῦτα φθέγγεται τοῖς μὲν τότε οὐκ ὄντα δῆλα , τοῖς δὲ μετὰ ταῦτα ἐσόμενα . τίνος δὲ εἵνεκεν τοῦτο ποιεῖ ; ἵνα δειχθῇ προειδὼς ἄνωθεν τὰ μετὰ ταῦτα , ὅταν ἐξέλθῃ καὶ τῆς προῤῥήσεως τὸ τέλος , ὃ δὴ καὶ ἐπὶ τῆς προφητείας ταύτης γέγονεν . Lücke remarks, that the circumstance of the words being spoken so long before his trial by the Sanhedrim, would make it more easy for the false witnesses to distort them. This they did, but not so as to agree with one another. They reported it, ‘I can destroy,’ &c., which makes a wide difference, and represents our Lord as an enemy of the temple ( Mat 26:61 ), and some added to  τὸν ν  .   τ  ., τ . χειροποίητον , and that He would raise another ἀχειροποίητον ( Mar 14:58 ).