 6. ] These vessels were for the washings usual at feasts: see Mark 7:4 . There could be no collusion or imposture here, as they were  water-vessels , and could have no remnants of wine in them (see also Joh 2:10 ). And the large quantity which they held could not have been brought in unobserved. The  μετρητής is probably = the Jewish נַּח (which, Jos. Antt. viii. 2. 9, held 72 ξέσται = the Attic μετρητής = 8 gallons 7·4 pints), and stands for it in the LXX, ref. 2 Chron. According to this, the quantity of wine thus created would = 6 × (2 or 3) × (8 gallons 7·4 pints) = 6 × (between 17 and 25 gallons) = say, 6 × 21 gallons = 126 gallons. The large quantity thus created has been cavilled at by unbelievers. We may leave them to their cavils with just one remark, that He who creates abundance enough in this earth to “put temptation in men’s way,” acted on this occasion  analogously with His known method of dealing . We may answer an error on the other side (  if it be on the other side ), by saying, that the Lord here most effectually and once for all stamps with His condemnation that false system of moral reformation, which would commence by  pledges to abstain from intoxicating liquors . He pours out His bounty  for all , and He vouchsafes His grace to  each for guidance; and to endeavour to evade the work which He has appointed for each man, by  refusing the bounty, to save the trouble of seeking the grace , is an attempt which must ever end in degradation of the individual motives, and in social demoralization, whatever present apparent effects may follow its first promulgation. One visible sign of this degradation, in its intellectual form, is the miserable attempt made by some of the advocates of this movement, to shew that the wine here and in other places of Scripture is unfermented wine, not possessing the power of intoxication.
	The filling with water, and drawing out wine, is all that is related. “The  moment of the miracle,” says Lücke, “is rather understood than expressed. It seems to lie between vv.7 and 8” (i. 471). The  process of it is wholly out of the region of our imagination. In order for wine to be produced, we have the growth and ripening of the grape; the crushing of it in proper vessels; the fermentation; but here all these are in a moment brought about in their  results , by the same Power which made the laws of nature, and created and unfolded the capacities of man. See below on John 2:11 .