 11. ] Without the article before ἀρχήν (see rec [40] . in digest) it is  This wrought Jesus as the beginning of his miracles: ἀρχή being the predicate.
	 [40] The  Textus Receptus or received text of the Greek Testament. Used in this Edition when elz and Steph agree
	This assertion of John excludes all the apocryphal miracles of the Gospel of the Infancy, and such like works, from credit.
	 σημεῖον  , which occasionally occurs in the other Gospels and the Acts in this absolute sense of  a miracle (see reff.), is St. John’s ordinary word for it. Cf. Luthardt, p. 62.
	 τὴν δόξαν αὐτ  . ] The glory, namely, which is referred to in ch. John 1:14 , where see note. It was a miracle eminently shewing forth the glory of the λόγος , δι ʼ οὗ πάντα ἐγένετο , in His state of having become flesh. And this ‘  believing on Him ,’ here predicated of the disciples, was certainly a higher faith than that which first led them to Him. They obtained new insight into His power; not yet reflectively, so as to infer what all this implied, but so as to increase their faith and trust in Him. Again and again ‘  they believed: ’ new degrees of faith being attained; just as this has since been the case, and will continue to be, in the Church, in the continual providential development of the Christian spirit, the leavening of the whole lump by degrees.
	This important miracle, standing as it does  at the very entrance of the official life of Christ , has been the subject of many doubts, and attempts to get rid of, or explain away, the power which was here manifested. But never did a narrative present a more stubborn inflexibility to the wresters of Scripture: never was simple historical veracity more strikingly stamped on any miracle than on this. And doubtless this is providentially so arranged: see the objections to it treated, and some admirable concluding remarks, in Lücke, i. 478.
	To those who yet seek some sufficient  cause for the miracle being wrought, we may besides the conclusive answer that we are not in a position to treat this question satisfactorily, assign the unmistakeable spiritual import of the change here made, as indicating the general nature of the beneficent work which the Lord came on earth to do. So Cornelius a Lapide (Trench, p. 113, edn. 2, note): “Christus initio suæ prædicationis mutans aquam in vinum significabat se legem Mosaicam, instar aquæ insipidam et frigidam, conversurum in Evangelium gratiæ quæ instar vini est, generosa, sapida, ardens, et efficax.” Similarly Eusebius, Augustine, Bernard, and Gregory the Great. Trench, ibid.