 4. ] The answer of our Lord is beyond question  one of reproof , and  disclaimer of participation in the grounds on which the request was made . See instances, besides reff., in Joshua 22:24 ; Mark 1:24 . And so all the early expositors understood it. Irenæus (iii. 16. 6, p. 206) says, “Dominus repellens ejus intempestivam festinationem, dixit,” &c. and Chrysostom, ἐβούλετο .… ἑαυτὴν λαμπροτέραν ποιῆσαι διὰ τοῦ παιδός , and therefore He σφοδρότερον ἀπεκρίνατο . Hom. xxi. in Joh., vol. viii. p. 122. The Romanist expositors mostly endeavour to divest the answer of any aspect of rebuke, and maintain that it was so uttered for  our sakes alone, to teach us that He did not perform His miracles from regard to human affinity, but solely from love and His object of manifesting His glory. So Maldonatus. And this is true: but first among those to be taught this, was  she herself, who had tempted Him to work a miracle from that regard .
	It has perhaps not been enough noticed, that in this answer the Lord declares His period of subjection to her as His earthly parent to be at an end. Henceforth His thoughts are not her thoughts. At twelve years of age, see Luke 2:49 , He answers ‘thy father and I,’ by ‘My Father:’ now, He is to be no longer before the world  as Mary’s son , but as sanctified by the Father and sent into the world: compare Matthew 12:48-50 , and Luke 11:27-28 , and see Stier’s admirable remarks, R. J. i. 39, edn. 2, also Olshausen’s, ii. 81.
	 γύναι ] There is no reproach in this term: but rather respect. The Lord henceforth uses it towards her, not calling her ‘mother,’ even on the Cross (see ch. Joh 19:26 ), doubtless for the reason alleged above.
	 οὔπω ἥκ  .   ἡ ὥρα μου ] This expression is generally used in John of the time of the  Death of Christ: see reff. But it is only so used because His death is in those passages the subject naturally underlying the narrative. It is,  any fixed or appointed time; and therefore here, the appointed time of His self-manifestation by miracles. This time was not yet come, but was close at hand. Some have supposed that the wine was not yet wholly exhausted, and that our Lord would wait till the miracle should be undoubted (so Trench, p. 192): but Stier well remarks that the known  depth of all His early sayings forbids us from attaching only this meaning to it; and he sees in it a reference to the great marriage-feast and the new fruit of the vine in the Kingdom of God (i. 41, edn. 2). If this be so, it can be only in the background; the words must have had a present meaning, and I believe it to be, ‘  My time, the time at which, from the Father’s appointment and my own concurring will, I am to begin miraculous working, is not yet arrived: forestall it not .’ Very similarly He speaks, ch. John 7:6 , to His brethren, and yet afterwards goes up to the feast. The notion that ἡ ὥρα μου refers to the hour of our Lord’s human infirmity on the Cross when (ch. Joh 19:27 ) He “acknowledged her as His mother,” Wordsw., seems wholly unfounded. Where do we find any such special acknowledgment there? And why should we go out of our way for a fanciful sense of words which bear an excellent meaning as referring to circumstances then present?