 51. ] The  ἰδού gives solemnity. This was the  inner veil , screening off the holy of holies from the holy place, Exodus 26:33 ; Hebrews 9:2-3 . This circumstance has given rise to much incredulous comment, and that even from men like Schleiermacher. A right and deep view of the O.T. symbolism is required to furnish the key to it; and for this we look in vain among those who  set aside that symbolism entirely .
	That was now accomplished, which was the one and great antitype of all those sacrifices offered in the holy place,  in order to gain , as on the great day of atonement (for that day may be taken as the representation of their intent),  entrance into the holiest place ,  the typical presence of God . What those sacrifices (ceremonially) procured for the Jews (the type of God’s universal Church) through their High-priest, was now (really) procured for all men by the sacrifice of Him, who was at once the victim and the High-priest. When Schleiermacher and De Wette assert that no use is made of this event in the Epistle to the Hebrews, they surely cannot have remembered, or not have deeply considered, Hebrews 10:19-21 . Besides, suppose it  had been referred to plainly and by name what would then have been said? Clearly, that  this mention was  a later insertion, to justify that reference . And  almost this latter, Strauss,  recognizing the allusion in Heb. , actually does. Schleiermacher also asks,  how could the event be known , seeing none but priests could have witnessed it, and they would not be likely to betray it? To say nothing of the  almost certain spread of the rumour , has he forgotten that ( Act 6:7 ) “a  great company of the priests were obedient unto the faith?” Neander, who gives this last consideration its weight (but only as a possibility, that  some priests may have become converts, and apparently without reference to the above fact), has an unworthy and shuffling note (L. J. p. 757), ending by quoting two testimonies, one apocryphal, the other Rabbinical, from which he concludes that ‘  some matter of fact lies at the foundation’ of this (according to him)  mythical adjunct .
	 ἡ γῆ ἐσείσθη ] Not an ordinary earthquake, but connected with the two next clauses, and finding in them its explanation and justification.
	 αἱ πέτραι ἐσχίσθησαν ] It would not be right altogether to reject the testimonies of travellers to the fact of extraordinary rents and fissures in the rocks near the spot. Of course those who know no other proof of the historical truth of the event, will not be likely to take this as one; but to us, who are firmly convinced of it, every such trace, provided it be soberly and honestly ascertained, is full of interest.