 62.   τῇ ἐπ  . ] not on that night, but on the next day. A difficulty has been found in its being called the day μετὰ τὴν παρασκευήν , considering that it was  itself the sabbath , and the  greatest sabbath in the year . But I believe the expression to be carefully and purposely used. The chief priests, &c. did not go to Pilate on the sabbath, but  in the evening, after the termination of the sabbath . Had the Evangelist said ἥτις ἐστὶ τὸ σάββατον , the incongruity would at once appear of such an application being made on the sabbath and he therefore designates the day as the first after that, which, as the day of the Lord’s death, the παρασκευή , was uppermost in his mind.
	The narrative following has been much impugned, and its historical accuracy very generally given up by even the best of the German Commentators (Olshausen, Meyer; also De Wette, Hase, and others). The chief difficulties found in it seem to be: (1) How should the chief priests, &c.  know of His having said , ‘in three days I will rise again,’ when the saying was hid even from His own disciples? The answer to this is easy. The  meaning of the saying may have been, and was, hid from the disciples; but the  fact of its having been said could be no secret. Not to lay any stress on John 2:19 , we have the direct prophecy of Mat 12:40 and besides this, there would be a rumour current, through the intercourse of the Apostles with others, that He had been in the habit of so saying. As to the  understanding of the words, we must remember that  hatred is keener sighted than love ; that the  raising of Lazarus would shew,  what sort of a thing rising from the dead was to be ; and that the fulfilment of the Lord’s announcement of his  crucifixion would naturally lead them to look further, to  what more he had announced. (2) How should the women, who were solicitous about the  removal of the stone, not have been still more so about its being sealed, and a guard set? The answer to this has been given above  they were not aware of the  circumstance, because the guard was not set till the evening before . There would be no need of the application before the  approach of the third day it is only made for a watch  ἕως τῆς τρίτης ἡμέρας  , Mat 27:64 and it is not probable that the circumstance would transpire that night certainly it seems not to have done so. (3) That Gamaliel was of the council, and if such a thing as this, and its sequel ch. Matthew 28:11-15 , had really happened, he need not have expressed himself doubtfully, Acts 5:39 , but would have been certain that this was from God. But, first, it does not necessarily follow that  every member of the Sanhedrim was present and applied to Pilate, or even had they done so, that all bore a part in the act of ch. Matthew 28:12 . One who, like Joseph, had not consented to their deed before and we may safely say that there were others such would naturally withdraw himself from further proceedings against the person of Jesus. On Gamaliel and his character, see note on Acts, l. c.) Had this been so, the three other Evangelists would not have passed over so important a testimony to the Resurrection. But surely we cannot argue in this way for thus every important fact narrated by  one Evangelist alone must be rejected e.g. (which stands in much the same relation) the  satisfaction of Thomas , and other such narrations.  Till we know much more about the circumstances under which, and the scope with which, each Gospel was compiled, all à priori arguments of this kind are good for nothing .