 45 50. ] SUPERNATURAL DARKNESS. LAST WORDS, AND DEATH OF JESUS. Mark 15:33-37 . Luke 23:44-46 . John 19:28-30 . The three accounts are here and there very closely allied; Matthew and Mark almost verbally. Luke only, however, contains the  words which the Lord uttered before he expired , omits the incident which takes up our Matthew 27:46-49 , and inserts  here the rending of the veil. John is  entirely distinct .
	 45 ]. According to Mark 15:25 , it was the  third hour when they crucified Him. If so, He had been on the cross three hours, which  in April would answer to about the same space of time in our day i.e. from 9 12 A.M. On the difficulty presented by John’s declaration ch. Matthew 19:14 , see notes there and on Mark.
	 σκότος ] This was  no eclipse of the sun , for it was  full moon at the time nor any partial obscuration of the sun such as sometimes takes place before an earthquake for it is clear that no  earthquake in the ordinary sense of the word is here intended. Those whose belief leads them to reflect WHO was then suffering, will have no difficulty in accounting for these signs of sympathy in Nature, nor in seeing their applicability. The consent, in the same words, of all three Evangelists, must silence all question as to the universal belief of this darkness as a  fact ; and the early Fathers (Julius Africanus, in Routh, Reliq. Sacr. ii. p. 297 f.: Tertull. Apol. c. 21, vol. i. p. 401: Origen c. Cels. ii. 33, vol. i. p. 414: Euseb. in Chronicon. Cf. Wordsw. h. l.) appeal to profane testimony for its truth. The omission of it in John’s Gospel is of no more weight than the numerous other instances of such omission. See Amos 8:9-10 .
	 ἐπὶ πᾶσαν τὴν γῆν ] Whether these words are to be taken in all their strictness is doubtful. Of course, the  whole globe cannot be meant as it would be night  naturally over  half of it . The question is, are we to understand  that part of  it over which there was day? I believe we  are ; but see no strong objection to any limitation, provided  the fact itself , as happening at Jerusalem, is  distinctly recognized . This last is  matter of testimony , and the three Evangelists are  pledged to its truth : the present words cannot stand on the same ground, not being matter of testimony properly so called.