 52.   καὶ τὰ μν  … to end of Matthew 27:53  . ] The first clause, as following on an earthquake which splits the rocks, is by the modern Commentators received as genuine, and thrown into the same probability as the earthquake itself: but the following ones meet with no mercy at their hands.  Gin mythisch apokryphischer Unsass is Meyer’s description of them and as he cannot find any  critical ground for this, the  Greek Editor of Matthew has the blame of  having added them . I believe on the contrary that these latter clauses contain  the occasion of the former ones . The whole transaction was  supernatural and  symbolic : no other interpretation of it will satisfy even ordinary common sense. Was the earthquake a  mere coincidence! This not even those assert, who deny all symbolism in the matter. Was it a mere  sign of divine wrath at what was done a mere  prodigy , like those at the death of Cæsar? Surely no Christian believer can think this. Then  what was it? What but the  opening of the tombs the symbolic declaration ‘  mors janua vitæ ,’ that  the death which had happened had broken the bands of death for ever? These following clauses (which have no mythical nor apocryphal character ἐνεφανίσθησαν  πολλοῖς , and no more, is not the way of any but authentic history: see the Gospel of Nicodemus, ch. xvii. ff. in Jones’s Canon of the N.T. vol. ii. p. 255) require only this explanation to be fully understood. The graves were opened  at the moment of the death of the Lord; but inasmuch as He is the first-fruits from the dead  the Resurrection and the Life the bodies of the saints in them  did not arise till He rose , and having appeared to many after his resurrection, possibly during the forty days, went up with Him into his glory. (Cf. on this Corn.-a-Lap., h. l.: who maintains that this was so, for five reasons: 1) “quia hoc decebat Christum, ut fructum mortis et resurrectionis suæ statim ostenderet in beata hac Sanctorum resurrectione: 2) quia animæ horum jam erant beatæ, ac proinde par erat eas non uniri corporibus nisi gloriosis et immortalibus: 3) quia exigua fuisset earum felicitas, ac longe major miseria, quod mox rursum deberent mori: 4) quia congruebat, ut hi Sancti Christum resurgentem et scandentem in cœlum, ejusque triumphum sua resurrectione decorarent: 5) quia convenit ut Christus in cœlo habeat Beatos quorum aspectu et collocutione externa se pascat humanitas, ne alioqui solitaria sit, expersque humanæ consolationis.” On this side, he claims Orig [185] (in Matt. Comm. series, vol. iii. p. 928; but wrongly, for Origen gives the whole a spiritual sense, more suo), Jerome, Bede, Thos. Aquinas, Anselm, Clem. Alex [186] (Strom. vi. 47, p. 764 [187] .), Euseb. (Dem. Evang. iv. 12, vol. iv. p. 284), Epiph [188] (Hær. lxxv. p. 911), a [189] . On the other side are Thl., Euthym [190] , Aug [191] (Ep. 164 (99) ad Evod. 3 (2) vol. ii.), alli [192] . Augustine is moved chiefly by the fact that David’s body appears from Acts 2:29 ; Acts 2:34 , to have been still in his tomb after the Ascension.) Moses and Elias, who were before in glory, were not  from the dead , properly speaking: see note on ch. Matthew 17:1 .
	 [185] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [186] Alex. Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194
	 [187] By these symbols are designated the portions of two ancient MSS., discernible (as also are fragments of Ulphilas’ gothic version) under the later writing of a volume known as the Codex Carolinus in the Ducal Library at Wolfenbüttel. P (GUELPHERBYTANUS A) contains fragments of each of the Gospels. Q (GUELPH. B) fragments of Luke and John. Both are probably of the  sixth century . They were edited by F. A. Knittel in 1762; and, more thoroughly, by Tischendorf in 1860 [1869], Monumenta Sacra, vol. iii. [vi.]
	 [188] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	 [189] alii = some cursive mss.
	 [190] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 [191]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [192] alii = some cursive mss.
	The explanation (Fritzsche) of  μετὰ τὴν ἔγερσιν αὐτοῦ as ‘  after He had raised them ,’ is simply ridiculous. The words belong to the  whole sentence , not merely to εἰσῆλθον .
	 ἠγέρθησαν is the  result not the  immediate accompaniment , of the opening of the tombs. It is to prevent this being supposed, that the qualification μετ . τ . ἔ . αὐ . is added.