Verse 24. Whensoever I take my journey into Spain — Where it is very likely the Gospel had not yet been planted; though legendary tales inform us that St. James had planted the Gospel there long before this time, and had founded many bishoprics! But this is as unfounded as it is ridiculous and absurd; for nothing like what is now termed a bishopric, nor even a parish, was founded for many years after this. An itinerant preacher, might, with more propriety, say travelling circuits were formed, rather than bishoprics. Whether the apostle ever fulfilled his design of going to Spain is unknown; but there is no evidence whatever that he did, and the presumption is that he did not undertake this voyage. Antiquity affords no proof that he fulfilled his intention.I will come to you — ελευσο μαιπρος υμας. These words are wanting in almost every MS. of note, and in the Syriac of Erpen, Coptic, Vulgate, Ethiopic, Armenian, and Itala. If the first clause of this verse be read in connection with the latter clause of the preceding, it will fully appear that this rejected clause is useless. Having a great desire, these many years to come unto you whensoever I take my journey into Spain: for I trust to see you in my journey, c.Somewhat filled with your company.] The word εμπλησθω, which we translate filled, would be better rendered gratified for εμπλησθηναι signifies to be satisfied, to be gratified, and to enjoy. AELIAN., Hist. Anim., lib. v., c. 21, speaking of the peacock spreading out his beautiful plumage, says: εα γαρ εμπλησθηναι της θεος τον παρεστωτα· "He readily permits the spectator to gratify himself by viewing him." And MAXIMUS TYRIUS, Dissert. 41, page 413: "That he may behold the heavens, και εμπλησθη λαμπρου φωτος, and be gratified with the splendour of the light." HOMER uses the word in the same sense:-  Ἡ δ' εμη ουδε περ υἱος ενιπλησθηναι ακοιτις Οφθαλμοισιν εασε. Odyss., lib. xi., ver. 451.  "But my wife never suffered my eyes to be delighted with my son."  The apostle, though he had not the honour of having planted the Church at Rome, yet expected much gratification from the visit which he intended to pay them.