 CHAPTER 3 
	
 :-. PREACHING AND
	MINISTRY OF JOHN.
	( = Mark 1:1-8; Luke 3:1-18).
	 For the
	proper introduction to this section, we must go to Luke 3:1;
	Luke 3:2. Here, as BENGEL
	well observes, the curtain of the New Testament is, as it were, drawn
	up, and the greatest of all epochs of the Church commences. Even our
	Lord's own age is determined by it (Luke 3:2- :). No such elaborate chronological precision is to be found
	elsewhere in the New Testament, and it comes fitly from him who
	claims it as the peculiar recommendation of his Gospel, that "he
	had traced down all things with precision from the very first"
	(Matthew 1:3). Here evidently
	commences his proper narrative. 
	 Matthew 1:3- :: 
	 Now
	in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Cæsar —not
	the fifteenth from his full accession on the death of Augustus, but
	from the period when he was associated with him in the government of
	the empire, three years earlier, about the end of the year of Rome
	779, or about four years before the usual reckoning. 
	 Pontius
	Pilate being governor of Judea —His proper title was
	procurator, but with more than the usual powers of that
	office. After holding it for about ten years, he was summoned to Rome
	to answer to charges brought against him; but ere he arrived,
	Tiberius died (A.D. 35),
	and soon after miserable Pilate committed suicide. 
	 And
	Herod being tetrarch of Galilee
—(See on Matthew 1:3- :). 
	 and
	his brother Philip —a
	very different and very superior Philip to the one whose name was
	Herod Philip,
	and whose wife, Herodias, went to live with Herod Antipas (see on Matthew 1:3- :). 
	 tetrarch
	of Ituræa —lying
	to the northeast of Palestine, and so called from Itur
	or Jetur,
	Ishmael's son (1 Chronicles 1:31), and
	anciently belonging to the half-tribe of Manasseh. 
	 and
	of the region of Trachonitis —lying farther to the
	northeast, between Iturea and Damascus; a rocky district infested by
	robbers, and committed by Augustus to Herod the Great to keep in
	order. 
	 and
	Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene —still more to the
	northeast; so called, says ROBINSON,
	from Abila, eighteen miles from Damascus. 
	 1 Chronicles 1:31- :: 
	 Annas
	and Caiaphas being the high priests
—The former, though deposed, retained
	much of his influence, and, probably, as sagan
	or deputy, exercised much of the power of the high priesthood along
	with Caiaphas, his son-in-law (John 18:13;
	Acts 4:6). In David's time both
	Zadok and Abiathar acted as high priests (Acts 4:6- :), and it seems to have been the fixed practice to have two
	(2 Kings 25:18). 
	the
	word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness
—Such a way of speaking is never once
	used when speaking of Jesus, because He was Himself The
	Living Word; whereas to all merely
	creature-messengers of God, the word they spoke was a foreign
	element. See on 2 Kings 25:18- :. We are
	now prepared for the opening words of Matthew. 
	