10. And now also—And even
	already. 
	the axe is laid unto—"lieth
	at." 
	the root of the trees—as
	it were ready to strike: an expressive figure of impending judgment,
	only to be averted in the way next described. 
	therefore every tree which
	bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the
	fire—Language so personal and individual as this can scarcely
	be understood of any national judgment like the approaching
	destruction of Jerusalem, with the breaking up of the Jewish polity
	and the extrusion of the chosen people from their peculiar privileges
	which followed it; though this would serve as the dark shadow, cast
	before, of a more terrible retribution to come. The "fire,"
	which in another verse is called "unquenchable," can be no
	other than that future "torment" of the impenitent whose
	"smoke ascendeth up for ever and ever," and which by the
	Judge Himself is styled "everlasting punishment" ( :-). What a strength, too, of just indignation is in that word
	"cast" or "flung into the fire!" 
	 The third
	Gospel here adds the following important particulars in  :-. 
	  :-: 
	 And
	the people —the multitudes. 
	 asked
	him, saying, What shall we do then? —that is, to
	show the sincerity of our repentance. 
	  :-: 
	 He
	answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart
	to him that hath none; and he that hath meat —provisions,
	victuals. 
	 let
	him do likewise —This
	is directed against the reigning avarice and selfishness. (Compare
	the corresponding precepts of the Sermon on the Mount,  :-). 
	  :-: 
	 Then
	came also the publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,
Master —Teacher. 
	 what
	shall we do? —In what special way is the genuineness
	of our repentance to be manifested? 
	  :-: 
	 And
	he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you
—This is directed against that
	extortion which made the publicans a byword. (See on  :-;  :-). 
	  :-: 
	 And
	the soldiers —rather, "And soldiers"—the
	word means "soldiers on active duty." 
	 likewise
	demanded —asked. 
	 of
	him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do
violence to no man —Intimidate. The word
	signifies to "shake thoroughly," and refers probably to the
	extorting of money or other property. 
	 neither
	accuse any falsely —by acting as informers
	vexatiously on frivolous or false pretexts. 
	 and
	be content with your wages —or "rations."
	We may take this, say WEBSTER
	and WILKINSON, as a
	warning against mutiny, which the officers attempted to suppress by
	largesses and donations. And thus the "fruits" which would
	evidence their repentance were just resistance to the reigning
	sins—particularly of the class to which the penitent
	belonged—and the manifestation of an opposite spirit. 
	  :-: 
	 And
	as the people were in expectation —in a state of
	excitement, looking for something new 
	 and
	all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the
Christ, or not —rather, "whether he
	himself might be the Christ." The structure of this clause
	implies that they could hardly think it, but yet could not help
	asking themselves whether it might not be; showing both how
	successful he had been in awakening the expectation of Messiah's
	immediate appearing, and the high estimation and even reverence,
	which his own character commanded. 
	  :-: 
	 John
	answered —either
	to that deputation from Jerusalem, of which we read in  :-, &c., or on some other occasion, to remove impressions
	derogatory to his blessed Master, which he knew to be taking hold of
	the popular mind. 
	saying
	unto them all —in
	solemn protestation. 
	(We now return to the first
	Gospel.)