 49.   πῦρ ] It is extraordinary that the official announcement of the Baptist (ch. Luk 3:16 ) αὐτὸς ὑμᾶς βαπτίσει ἐν πν . ἁγ .  καὶ πυρί connected with the mention of a baptism here, with the promise Acts 1:5 , and the appearance Acts 2:3 , so strikingly expressed as  διαμεριζόμεναι γλῶσσαι ὡσεὶ  πυρός , have not kept the Commentators in general (Bleek is an exception) from falling into the blunder of imagining here that the  fire is synonymous with, and means no more than, the  discord and  division which follow. The fire is,  the gift of the Holy Spirit , the great crowning result of the sufferings and triumph of the Lord Jesus. To follow this out in all its references belongs to another place: see notes on Mark 9:49 , and Acts 2:3 . This fire, in its purifying and separating effects on the mass of mankind, causes the  διαμερισμός afterwards spoken of.
	The  construction of  τί θέλ  .   εἰ ἤδ  .   ἀν  . has been ever a matter of dispute, while the  meaning is on all hands nearly agreed. The three prevalent explanations of it are: (1) which is Origen’s (app [89] ), and is adopted by Grot., and defended by Meyer [formerly] and Stier, making εἰ = εἴθε , and rendering,  and what will I? would that it were already kindled! Certainly thus there is nothing forced in the  construction; we have εἰ for ‘  utinam ’ joined with aorist in Joshua 7:7 ; but the abrupt short ejaculation seems unlike the usual character of our Lord’s discourses. It is true the structure of Joh 12:27 affords an instance of a similar question, καὶ τί εἴπω ; … and under similar circumstances, of  His soul being troubled . (2) which Theophyl., Kuinoel, Olsh., De Wette, Bleek, &c. [so Meyer, edn. 5, see Moulton’s Winer, p. 562, note 3] adopt, taking τί = ὡς , as some do, adopting that reading, in Matthew 7:14 (but see note there), and εἰ = ὅτι , and rendering, How I wish that it were already kindled! But here we have serious difficulties of an  idiomatic kind: τί is apparently never thus used and εἰ only after words of wondering, being grieved, &c.: see Mark 15:44 .
	 [89] apparently.
	(3) That of Euthym [90] , Beza, &c., and the E. V., ‘What will I, if it be already kindled?’ i.e. τί πλεῖον θέλω ἐὰν ἀνήφθη ; τί πλεῖον ἀναμένω ἐν τῷ κόσμῳ ; Euth. This also presents no constructional, but a very great contextual difficulty; for by Luk 12:50 it evidently  was not yet kindled; and even if this were overcome, the expression, evidently a  deep one of personal anxiety (and be it remembered Who said it), would be vapid and unmeaning in the extreme.
	 [90] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	All things then being considered, I prefer the first explanation.