 47, 48. ]  Primarily , in reference to the question in Luke 12:41 ,  οἱ γνόντες  =   ἡμεῖς  , the disciples.
	 οἱ μὴ γνόντες =  πάντες , the multitude: but the application is not limited to this: the truth is one of universal extent. The 47th verse needs little explanation: after both πολλάς and ὀλίγας ,  πληγάς is to be supplied, see reff.: and cf. Aristoph. Nub. 959, ἐπετρίβετο τυπτόμενος πολλάς .
	 ἑτοιμ  ., not ἑαυτόν , but,  matters, πρὸς τ . θ . αὐ .: almost in the absolute sense of ‘making ready:’ it refers back to the γίνεσθε ἕτοιμοι of Luke 12:40 ; this readiness being not only preparing  himself , but the matters over which he has charge, Luke 12:35 . There is reference to Deuteronomy 25:2 .
	 ὁ δὲ μὴ γν  . ] The case is of one (a disciple in the first reference, but then generally of all men) who bona fide is ignorant of his Lord’s will. That such persons  shall be punished , is both the sentence of the law, see Leviticus 5:17-19 , and an inference from the truth set forth Luke 12:57 , and Romans 1:19-20 ; Romans 1:32 ; Romans 2:14-15 , that the  natural conscience would have prevented the μὴ ποιῆσαι . (Observe that the two classes,  not included here , are ὁ γνοὺς καὶ ποιήσας , and ὁ μὴ γνοὺς καὶ ποιήσας , as far as that can be said (see Rom 2:14 ); the reference  here being only to the μὴ ποιήσας in both cases, or rather to the μὴ π . in the first case and its equivalent π . ἄξια πληγῶν in the second.) But the difficulty seems to be to assign  a spiritual meaning to the  δαρήσεται ὀλίγας  .  That such will be the case , would  à priori be consonant to the justice of the Judge of all the earth: and we have it here declared, that  it shall be so: but  how , is not revealed to us. It is in vain for the sinner to encourage himself in sin from such a declaration as this: for the very knowledge of the declaration excludes him from the exemption. “Our ears have heard the voice divine; We cannot be as they.” (Christian Year.)
	 παντὶ ᾧ  , attr. for παρὰ παντός , ᾧ .
	 πολὺ  …   πολύ ] The second πολύ is not the πολύ that has been given, but a proportionable amount of result of diligence, a πολύ which he is to render.
	 περισσ  . ] Perhaps,  more than from others: but more likely  more than had been deposited with him , viz. that, and the interest of it: see Matthew 25:15 ff.