Struck - with the palm of his hand [εδωκε ραπισμα] . Literally, gave a blow. Interpreters differ as to whether it was a blow with a rod, or with the hand. The kindred verb rJapizw, from rJapiv, a rod, is etymologically related to rJabdizw, from rJabdov, a rod, and occurs Matthew 5:39, of smiting on the cheek, and Matthew 26:67, where it is distinguished from kolafizw, to strike with the fist. This latter passage, however, leaves the question open, since, if the meaning to smite with a rod can be defended, there is nothing to prevent its being understood there in that sense. The earlier meaning of the word was, undoubtedly, according to its etymology, to smite with a rod. So Herodotus of Xerxes. "It is certain that he commanded those who scourged [ραπι. ζοντας] the waters (of the Hellespont) to utter, as they lashed them, these barbarian and wicked words" (vii. 35). And again : "The Corinthian captain, Adeimantus, observed, 'Themistocles, at the games they who start too soon are scourged [ραπιζονται] '" (viii. 59). It passes, in classical Greek, from this meaning to that of a light blow with the hand. The grammarian Phrynichus (A. D. 180) condemns the use of the word in the sense of striking with the hand, or slapping, as not according to good Attic usage, and says that the proper expression for a blow on the cheek with the open hand is ejpi korrhv pataxai. This shows that the un - Attic phrase had crept into use. In the Septuagint the word is clearly used in the sense of a blow with the hand. See Isaiah 50:6 : "I gave my cheeks to blows [εις ραπι. σματα] . Hosea 11:4," As a man that smiteth [ραπιζων] upon his cheeks "(A. V. and Rev., that take off the yoke on their jaws). In 1 Kings 22:24, we read," Zedekiah - smote Micaiah on the cheek [επαταξε επι την σιαγονα] . "The word in ver. 23, dereiv, literally, flayest, hence, do beat or thrash (compare Luke 12:47), seems better to suit the meaning strike with a rod; yet in 2 Corinthians 11:20, that verb is used of smiting in the face [εις προσωπον δερει] , and in 1 Corinthians 9:27, where Paul is using the figure of a boxer, he says," So fight I (pukteuw, of boxing, or fighting with the fists), not as one that beateth [δερων] the air. " These examples practically destroy the force of the argument from dereiv. It is impossible to settle the point conclusively; but, on the whole, it seems as well to retain the rendering of the A. V. and Rev. 52