Led [αγουσιν] . Present tense, lead. Hall of judgment [πραιτωριον] . A Latin word, proetorium, transcribed. Originally, the general's tent. In the Roman provinces it was the name for the official residence of the Roman governor, as here. Compare Acts 23:35. It came to be applied to any spacious villa or palace. So Juvenal : "To their crimes they are indebted for their gardens, palaces [προετορια] , etc." (" Sat., " 1 75). In Rome the term was applied to the proetorian guard, or imperial bodyguard. See on Philippians 1:13. Rev., palace. Early [πρωι] . Used technically of the fourth watch, 3 - 6 A. M. See Mark 13:35. The Sanhedrim could not hold a legal meeting, especially in capital cases, before sunrise; and in such cases judicial proceedings must be conducted and terminated by day. A condemnation to death, at night, was technically illegal. In capital cases, sentence of condemnation could not be legally pronounced on the day of trial. If the night proceedings were merely preliminary to a formal trial, they would have no validity; if formal, they were, inso facto, illegal. In either case was the law observed in reference to the second council. According to the Hebrew computation of time, it was held on the same day. Be defiled (mianqwsin). Originally, to stain, as with color. So Homer : "Tinges [μιηνη] the white ivory with purple." Not necessarily, therefore, in a bad sense, like moluvw, to besmear or besmirch with filth (1 Corinthians 8:7; Revelation 3:4). In classical Greek, miainw, the verb here used, is the standing word for profaning or unhallowing. So Sophocles : "Not even fearing this pollution [μιασμα] dire, Will I consent to burial. Well I know That man is powerless to pollute [μιαινειν] the gods." "Antigone," 1042 - 1044. And Plato : "And if a homicide... without purification pollutes the agora, or the games, or the temples," etc. (" Laws, " 868). See on 1 Peter 1:4. The defilement in the present case was apprehended from entering a house from which all leaven had not been removed. Eat the Passover. The purpose of this work forbids our entering upon the much - vexed question of the apparent inconsistency between John and the Synoptists as to the time of celebrating the Passover.