 10. ] 2Co 8:9 was parenthetic: he now resumes the οὐ κατ ʼ ἐπιταγὴν λέγω …  And I give my opinion [not ‘  judgment ,’ as rendered in the Version of the Five Clergymen, which is objectionable here, as conveying the very idea which the Apostle wishes to negative, that of an authoritative decision]  in this matter , the stress being on  γνώμην , as distinguished from ἐπιταγήν .
	 τοῦτο γὰρ .…]  For this (viz. ‘  my giving my opinion, and not commanding ,’ as Billroth and Meyer. De Wette controverts this, and would make τοῦτο refer to the  proof of their love in the act of charity, contending that τοῦτο must refer to the same as ἐν τούτῳ . But Meyer rightly answers that this need not be, for ἐν τούτῳ is altogether unemphatic and insignificant, and the whole sense of the clause is in the words γνώμην δίδωμι )  is expedient for you (better than  “befitting,” or  “suitable,” as suggested by Bloomf. after the Schol. ἁρμόζει , συνᾴδει . This sense of συμφέρει is not found in the N. T., and is very doubtful elsewhere. See Palm and Rost’s Lex.),  seeing that you (‘quippe qui;’ οἵτινες is decisive for the above meaning of τοῦτο . ‘My giving my opinion, rather than commanding, is expedient for you, who have already shewn yourselves so willing.’ A  command from me would be a  lowering of you, and depreciation of your zeal)  began before them (the Macedonian churches, see below)  not only the act, but also the mind to act, from a year ago: i.e. ‘not only were you before them in the deed itself, but also in the will to do it.’
	The sense has been missed by many of the Commentators, from not observing the  comparison implied in  προενήρξασθε , and applying it only to the  Corinthians themselves beginning. In that case, as the  will comes before the  deed, to say, you began  not only to do, but also to will, would be unmeaning. Some, in consequence, as Grot., al., and the Peschito, have arbitrarily assumed an  inversion of terms, so that  ‘non solum facere, sed velle’ should =  ‘non solum velle, sed facere.’ Others, as Chrys., Theodoret, al., Erasm., Calv., Beza., al., Billroth, Olsh., Rückert, al. m., have taken θέλειν =  ‘to do with a good will,’ which is certainly not its sense in 2 Corinthians 8:11 . The above explanation is that of Cajetan, Estius, De Wette, Winer, Meyer, and Wieseler, and puts the climax in its right order, making it a backward one of comparison. For as Wieseler remarks (Chron. Apost. Zeit. p. 364, note), there are  three steps in the collection for the saints, the wishing it ( θέλειν ), the setting about it ( ποιῆσαι ), and the completion of it ( ἐπιτελέσαι ). And the Corinthians had begun  not only the second, but  even the first of these, before the Macedonians. Long employed as they had then been in the matter, it was more creditable to them to receive  advice from the Apostle, than  command.
	“  θέλειν is not a historic act like  ποιῆσαι , but a permanent state: hence the pres. inf.” Meyer.
	In saying  ἀπὸ πέρυσι  ‘from last year ,’ it seems probable that Paul would speak as a Jew, regarding the year as beginning in Tisri.