 3 .] μνημον . is not intransitive, as Erasm.-Schmid, al.: but as in reff.: ‘  commemorantes ,’ Beza.  ὑμῶν is by Œcum., Calv., al., regarded as the genitive after μνημον . standing alone, and ἕνεκα supplied before the other genitives. But such a construction may be doubted, and at all events it is much simpler here to regard ὑμ . as the genitive governed by τοῦ ἔργου , … τοῦ κόπου , and τῆς ὑπομονῆς , and prefixed, as belonging to all three,  πίστις  ,   ἀγάπη  ,   ἐλπίς , are the three great Christian graces of 1 Corinthians 13:0 . See also ch. 1 Thessalonians 5:8 ; Colossians 1:4-5 ; and Usteri, paulinisch. Lehrbegriff, p. 236 ff.
	 τοῦ ἔργου τῆς πίστεως ] Simple as these words are, all sorts of strange meanings have been given to them. Koppe and Rosenmüller hold τ . ἔργου to be pleonastic: Calv., Calov., al., render (ungrammatical) ‘  your faith wrought by God ;’ Kypke, ‘  the reality ( ἔργ . as contrasted with λόγος )  of your faith ;’ Chrys., Thl., Thdrt, Œc., al., ‘  the endurance of your faith in suffering :’ &c. Comparing the words with the following genitives, they seem to mean, ‘that work (energetic activity) which faith brings forth’ (as Chrys. ἡ πίστις διὰ τῶν ἔργων δείκνυται : the gen., as also those following, being thus a  possessive one: see Ellicott here): q.d. ‘the activity of your faith:’ see 2 Thessalonians 1:11 ; or perhaps, as Jowett (but not so well), “ ‘your work of faith,’ i.e. the Christian life, which springs from faith:” thus making the gen. one of  origin .
	 τοῦ κόπου ] probably  towards the sick and needy strangers , cf. Acts 20:35 ; Romans 16:6 ; Rom 16:12 not  in the word and ministry (De W.), cf. ch. 1 Thessalonians 5:12 ; which is irrelevant here. τῆς ἀγάπ . not as  springing from , but as  belonging to , love,  characterizing it (Lün.): see above.
	 τ  .   ὑπομ  .   τῆς ἐλπίδος ]  your endurance of hope i.e. endurance (in trials) which belongs to (see above), characterizes, your hope; and also nourishes it, in turn: cf. Romans 15:4 , ἵνα διὰ τῆς ὑπομονῆς , κ . διὰ τῆς παρακλήσεως τῶν γραφῶν τὴν ἐλπίδα ἔχωμεν .
	 τοῦ κυρ  .   ἡμ  .   Ἰ  .   χ  . ] specifies the hope that it is a hope of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ (cf. 1Th 1:10 ). Olsh. refers the words to all three preceding substantives but this seems alien from St. Paul’s style. On all three Jowett says well, ‘your faith, hope, and love; a faith that had its outward effect on your lives: a love that spent itself in the service of others: a hope that was no mere transient feeling, but was content to wait for the things unseen when Christ should be revealed.’
	 ἔμπρ  .   τ  .   θ  .   κ  .   πατρ  .   ἡμ  . ] belongs most naturally to μνημονεύοντες  making mention … before God : not to the genitives preceding (see Romans 4:17 ; Rom 14:22 ), as Thdrt., al.