 8 .]  Proof of the praise in 1 Thessalonians 1:7 .
	 ἀφ  ʼ   ὑμῶν is merely local,  from you , as in ref.; not ‘  by you ’ (as preachers) (  ὑφ  ʼ ὑμῶν ), as Rückert, “locorum Paulinorum 1Th 1:8 et 1Th 3:1-3 explanatio:” nor ‘  by your means ,’ viz. in saving Silas and myself from danger of our lives and so enabling us to preach (  δι  ʼ ὑμῶν ), as Storr, and Flatt.
	 ἐξήχηται ] δηλῶν ὅτι ὥσπερ σάλπιγγος λαμπρὸν ἠχούσης ὁ πλησίον ἅπας πληροῦται τόπος , οὕτω τῆς ὑμετέρας ἀνδρείας ἡ φήμη καθάπερ ἐκείνη σαλπίζουσα ἱκανὴ τὴν οἰκουμένην ἐμπλῆσαι . Chrys.
	 ὁ λόγ  .   τ  .   κυρίου , cannot be as De W. ‘  the fame of the reception of the Gospel by you :’ the sense seems to be that your ready reception and faith as it were sounded forth the λόγον τοῦ κυρίου , the word of the Lord, the Gospel message, loudly and clearly, through all parts.
	The logical construction of this verse is somewhat difficult. After the οὐ μόνον ἐν τῇ Μακ . κ . Ἀχ ., we expect merely ἀλλ ʼ ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ : but these words appear, followed by a new subject and a new predicate. Either then we must regard this new subject and predicate as merely an epexegesis of the former, ἐξήχηται ὁ λόγ . τοῦ κυρ ., or, with Lünemann, we must place a colon at κυρίου , and begin a new sentence with οὐ μόνον . This last is very objectionable, for it leaves ἀφ ʼ ὑμ … κυρίου standing alone in the most vapid and spiritless manner, with the strong rhetorical word ἐξήχηται unaccounted for and unemphatic. The other way then must be our refuge, and I cannot see those objections to it which Lün. has found. It is quite according to the versatile style of St. Paul, half to lose sight of the οὐ μόνον ἀλλ ʼ, and to go on after ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ with a new sentence; and especially as that new sentence explains the somewhat startling one preceding.
	 πρός  , towards , directed towards God as its object (and here, as contrasted with idols, see next verse) not = the more usual εἰς ,  to and  into , as Ellic. correcting my previous  on (  ἐπί ).
	De Wette, al., suppose with some probability that the report of the Thessalonians’ faith may have been spread by Christian travelling merchants, such as Aquila and Priscilla.
	 ὥστε μὴ …] The report being already rife, we found no occasion to speak of your faith, or in your praise.