 5 .]  ὅτι has been taken to mean ‘  videlicet, ut ,’ and the verse to be an epexegesis of ἐκλογήν : but as Lün. remarks, evidently 1 Thessalonians 1:5-6 ff. are meant not to explain  wherein their election  consisted , but to give reasons in matter of fact for concluding ( εἰδότες ) the existence of that election.  ὅτι must then be  because , and a colon be placed at ὑμῶν . These reasons are (1) the power and confidence with which he and Silvanus and Timotheus preached among them ( 1Th 1:5 ), and (2) the earnest and joyful manner in which the Thessalonians received it (1 Thessalonians 1:6 ff.). Both these were signs of God’s grace to them tokens of their election vouchsafed by Him.
	 τὸ εὐαγγ  .   ἡμ  . ,  the gospel which we preached .
	 ἐγενήθη εἰς ] See reff., especially Gal.:  came to you is perhaps the nearest:  εἰς betokens the direction, πρός , with ἐγέν ., would give nearly the same sense, or perhaps that of  apud , see ref. 1 Cor. &c. We must not take ἐγενήθη εἰς ὑμ . for a constr. prægnans ( ἦλθ . εἰς καὶ ἐγ . ἐν ), which with ἦν it might be: for ἐγενήθη εἰς carries motion in itself without any thing supplied. On ‘the passive form ἐγενήθη , alien to the Attic, and originally Doric, but common in the κοινή ’ (Lün.), see note on Ephesians 3:7 ; Lobeck on Phryn. p. 108 ff.; Kühner, i. 193; Winer, § 15. It was attempted in my earlier editions to press the  passive sense in the frequent occurrences of this form in this Epistle. But wider acquaintance with the usage has since convinced me that this is not possible, and that we must regard it as equivalent in meaning to the more usual ἐγένετο .
	The prepositions  ἐν following indicate the form and manner in which the  preaching was carried on , not (as Pelt, al.) that in which the Thessalonians received it, which is not treated till 1 Thessalonians 1:6 .
	 δυνάμει is not ‘  miracles ,’ as Thdrt., Œc., all., nor  efficacia et vis agens in cordibus fidelium (Bullinger) (see above), but  power , viz. of utterance and of energy.
	 πν  .   ἁγίῳ ] beware again of the supposed figure of ἓν διὰ δυοῖν , by which all character of style and all logical exactness is lost. Even Conyb. here has fallen into this error, and rendered “  power of the Holy Ghost .”
	It is a predicate advancing  beyond ἐν δυνάμει not only in force and energy, but  in the Holy Ghost in a manner which could only be ascribed to the operation of the Holy Spirit.
	 πληροφορίᾳ πολλῇ ]  much confidence (of faith), see reff. Many irrelevant meanings have been given:  fulness of spiritual gifts , which the Thessalonians had received (Lomb., Corn.-a-lap., Turretin.):  certainty of the truth , felt by them (Macknight, Benson, al.): ‘  fulfilment of the apostolic office ’ (Estius). The confidence (see above) was that in which  Paul and Silvanus and Timotheus preached to them .
	 καθὼς κ . τ . λ .] Appeal to their knowledge that the fact was so. These words restrict the foregoing to the  preachers , as explained above: καὶ τί , φησι , μακρηγορῶ ; αὐτοὶ ὑμεῖς μάρτυρές ἐστε , οἷοι ἐγενήθημεν πρὸς ὑμᾶς . Œc. This interpretation is fixed by καθώς , referring back to the whole previous description. The sense has been variously given: Conyb., ‘  And you, likewise know ’ but ‘  likewise ’ surely confounds the connexion: Pelt, even further from the mark, … ‘ita accipimus, ut Apostolum exemplum suum Thessaloniensibus imitandum statuamus.’
	 οἷοι ἐγενήθ  . ]  what manner of men we proved , as Ellic.: not ‘quales facti simus,’ see above in this note: nor as vulg., ‘  quales fuerimus ;’ the point of the fact appealed to is, the proof given, what manner of men they were, by the manner of their preaching. “The ποιότης was evinced in the power and confidence with which they delivered their message.” Ellic.:  the proof given by the manner of their preaching .
	 ἐν ἱμῖν ] local merely:  among you .
	 δι  ʼ   ἱμᾶς ]  for your sakes conveying the purpose of the Apostle and his colleagues, and in the background also  the purpose of GOD ‘you know what God enabled us to be, how mighty in preaching the word, for your sakes thereby proving that he loved you, and had chosen you for His own.’