 ΠΡΟΣ ΘΕΣΣΑΛΟΝΙΚΕΙΣ Α
	 1 .] ADDRESS AND GREETING. The Apostle names Silvanus and Timotheus with himself, as having with him founded the church at Thessalonica, see Acts 16:1 ; Acts 17:14 . Silvanus is placed before Timotheus, then a youth (Acts 16:1 f., see further in Prolegg, to 1 Tim. § i. 3, 4), as being one ἡγούμενος ἐν τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς (Acts 15:22 ; Acts 15:32 ; Act 18:5 ), and a προφήτης (ib. Acts 15:32 , see also 2 Corinthians 1:19 ; 1Pe 5:12 ). He does not name himself  an Apostle , probably for (an amplification of) the reason given by De Wette, because his Apostleship needed not any substantiation to the Thessalonians. For the same reason he omits the designation in the Epistle to the Philippians. This last fact precludes the reasons given, by Pelt, al., ‘  id ei tum non jam moris fuisse ,’ by Chrys., διὰ τὸ νεοκατηχήτους εἶναι τοὺς ἄνδρας , κ . μηδέπω αὐτοῦ πεῖραν εἰληφέναι , by Estius, Pelt (altern.), and Zwingl.,  out of modesty , not to distinguish himself from Silvanus and Timotheus, by Jowett, “probably the name ‘Apostle,’ which in its general sense was used of many, was gradually, and at no definite period, applied to him with the same special meaning as to the Apostles at Jerusalem.”
	 τῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ ] So in 2 Thess., Gal., Corr., in the other Epistles, viz. Rom., Eph., Col., Phil., more generally, e.g., πᾶσιν τοῖς οὖσιν ἐν Ῥώμῃ ἀγαπητοῖς θεοῦ , κλητοῖς ἁγίοις . This is most probably accounted for by the circumstances of the various Epistles. We may notice that the gen. plur. of the persons constituting the church occurs only in the addresses of these two Epistles. We may render ‘of Thessalonians,’ or ‘of the Thessalonians:’ better the former.
	 ἐν θεῷ πατρί ] The construction need not be filled up by τῇ or τῇ οὔσῃ , as Chr., al.: nor with Schott, by understanding χαίρειν λέγουσιν , which would be unnecessary, seeing that the apostolic greeting follows. The words form a (“  tertiary ,” Ellic.) predication respecting τῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ , or Θεσσαλονικέων , which requires no supplementing. See Winer, edn, 6, § 20. 2.
	 ἐν θεῷ πατρί marks them as not being heathens,  κ  .   κυρίῳ Ἰησοῦ χριστῷ , as not being Jews. So De W. after Chrys.: but perhaps the  πατρί already marks them as Christians.
	The  ἐν , as usual, denotes  communion and  participation in , as the element of spiritual life.
	 χάρις ὑμῖν κ  .   εἰρήνη ] “Gratia et pax a Deo sit vobis, ut, qui humana gratia et sæculari pace privati estis, apud Deum gratiam et pacem habeatis.” Anselm (in Pelt).
	The words which follow in the rec. are not yet added in this his first Epistle. Afterwards they became a common formula with him.