 12 .]  but He (‘this (man),’ or, (priest): but such rendering should be avoided if possible, as should all renderings which import a new generic idea into the text, as always causing confusion: cf. for a notable example, 1Co 2:11 end in E. V.)  having offered one sacrifice for sins (on the punctuation, see below)  for ever (  εἰς τὸ διηνεκές may be joined either with the preceding or with the following words. If with the preceding, as Thl. ( θυσίαν … εἰς τὸ δ . ἀρκοῦσαν ἡμῖν , and so Œc.), Luther, Castellio, Beza b, Chr. F. Schmid, Bengel, Böhme, Stein, al., we observe the usage of the Epistle, which is to place εἰς τὸ διηνεκές  after that which it qualifies (reff.): we have μία θυσία εἰς τὸ διηνεκές opposed to τὰς αὐτὰς θυσίας πολλάκις ; and we keep the propriety of the sense, according to what follows, τὸ λοιπὸν ἐκδεχόμενος ἕως κ . τ . λ ., and according to 1 Corinthians 15:28 , where we are expressly told, that the session of our triumphant Saviour will have its end as such. If we join the words with the following, as Syr., D-lat., Faber Stap., Erasm., Calvin, Schlichting, Grot., Wolf, al., Schulz, De Wette, Bleek, Lünem., Ebrard, Hofmann, Delitzsch, al., we more thoroughly satisfy the construction, in which εἰς τὸ διηνεκές seems to refer better to an enduring state than to a past act, or at all events not to this last without a harsh ellipsis, “  having offered one sacrifice (the virtue of which will endure)  for ever :” we preserve the contrast between ἕστηκεν καθ ʼ ἡμέραν and εἰς τὸ διηνεκὲς ἐκάθισεν : we preserve also the balance between the clauses ending προσφέρων θυσίας , and προσενέγκας θυσίαν : and we are in full accordance with the ἱερεὺς εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα so often insisted on. And to this latter arrangement I incline, not however laying it down as certain. The objection taken above, as to the change in the nature of Christ’s session at the end, when all things shall have been put under His feet, may be met by saying that such change, being obviously included in His ultimate state of reception into God’s presence in heaven, does not here  count as a change, where the question is of renewal of sacrifice, with regard to which that session is eternal)  sat down on the right hand of God ,