 11 .]  And ( καί introduces a new particular of contrast: ‘and besides’)  every high priest (much has of late been said by Delitzsch against the reading  ἀρχιερεύς , as bringing in an inaccuracy which our Writer could not be guilty of, seeing that the  high priests did not officiate in the daily sacrifice. But all such arguments are worthless against preponderating evidence, and rather tend the other way, viz. to shew how natural it was to alter ἀρχιερεύς to ἱερεύς , on account of this very difficulty. So that on the “procliviori præstat ardua” principle as well, we are bound I conceive to retain ἀρχιερεύς . And with regard to the alleged inaccuracy, I really think that if closely viewed, it will prove rather to be a fine and deep touch of truth. The High-priesthood of our Lord is to be compared with that of the Jewish legal high priests. On the one side is Jesus, alone in the glory of his office and virtue of his sacrifice; on the other is the Jewish high-priesthood, not one man but many, by reason of death; represented in all its acts, personal or delegated, by its holder for the time, by πᾶς ἀρχιερεύς , offering not one, but many sacrifices. This ἀρχιερεύς is the representative of the whole priesthood. Whether he ministered in the daily service of the temple himself or not, it is he who embodies the acts and sufferings of Israel in his own person. How Delitzsch can say that such an idea is foreign alike to the Bible and the Jewish mind, I am at a loss to understand, considering the liberation at the death of the high priest, not to insist on the ceremonies themselves at the day of atonement, when he was clearly the centre and representative of the priesthood, and indeed of all Israel. In treating of the Head of so compact a system as the Jewish priesthood it is clearly allowable, if any where, to bring in the principle, “qui facit per alterum, facit per se.” See ch. Hebrews 7:27 , where the very same καθ ʼ ἡμέραν is predicated of the ἀρχιερεύς )  standeth (see reff. No priest nor other person might  sit in the inner court of the temple, except the king. There is perhaps more than a fortuitous contrast to ἐκάθισεν below. So Œc. and Thl., aft. Chrys.: ἄρα τὸ ἑστάναι σημεῖόν ἐστι τοῦ λειτουργεῖν , τὸ δὲ καθῆσθαι , ὥσπερ ὁ χριστὸς ἐκάθισεν ἐν δεξιᾷ τοῦ πατρός , σημεῖόν ἐστι τοῦ λειτουργεῖσθαι οἷα θεὸν ὄντα . The vulgate rendering, “  præsto est ,” is clearly wrong)  day by day ministering (see note, ch. Heb 8:2 ),  and (  καί brings out that in the λειτουργία , which the Writer wishes most to emphasize)  often offering the same sacrifices, the which (i. e. of a sort which, such as)  can never take away (lit. ‘strip off all round:’ so of a ring, Genesis 41:42 ; Esther 3:10 ; Jos. Antt. xix. 2. 3: Ælian V. H. i. 21: Herod. iii. 41: of clothes from the body, Genesis 38:14 ; Deuteronomy 21:13 ; Jonah 3:6 ; 2Ma 4:38 . See reff.: and many more examples in Bleek. And such a word is peculiarly fitting to express the removal of that of which it is said, ch. Hebrews 5:2 , αὐτὸς περίκειται ἀσθένειαν , and which is called, ch. Hebrews 12:1 , ἡ εὐπερίστατος ἁμαρτία . The sacrifice might bring sense of partial forgiveness: but it could never denude the offerer of sinfulness strip off and take away his guilt)  sins: