 34 .]  Illustration , in reverse order, of the two particulars mentioned in Hebrews 10:33  . For ye both (better than ‘also,’ seeing that this sentence is not additional to, but illustrative of the last in both its members)  sympathized with (see on  συμπαθέω , ch. Heb 4:15 )  them who were in bonds (first as to the reading. The mere diplomatic evidence is given in the var. read. Estius appears to be right when he says, “Porro facillimum fuit, Græca mutari unius literulæ ablatione, ut scriberetur δεσμοῖς pro δεσμίοις , cui lectioni deinde addiderunt pronomen μοῦ , eo quod Paulus alibi sæpe vinculorum suorum mentionem faciat.” It is not easy on the other hand to explain how δεσμίοις should ever have been substituted for δεσμοῖς μου . The idea that συμπαθῆσαι requires a person and not a thing as its object, which is supposed by some to have caused the alteration to δεσμίοις , is not likely to have influenced a Greek copyist, seeing that it is wholly unfounded in Greek. We have συμπαθεῖν ταῖς ἀσθενείαις , ch. Hebrews 4:15 ; συμπ . καὶ ταῖς μικραῖς ἀτυχίαις , Isocr. p. 64 B, and δεσμοί are, after all, the  state of the captive person. δεσμίοις is held to be the original by Grot., Beng., Wetst., Griesb., Scholz, Knapp, Lachm., Tischendorf, and is rejected, out of critical editors, only by Matthæi and Rink, who read δεσμοῖς μου , and Mill and Nösselt, who omit μου . Of commentators, the rec. is defended by Wolf, Carpzov, Michaelis, al. A full account is given of all the testimonies each way by Bleek: see also Delitzsch’s note),  and ye took (  προσδέχομαι not only of expectation, but of reception: so in ref., οὐ προσδεξάμενοι τὴν ἀπολύτρωσιν . So Chrys. and Thl. here, τὸ προσεδέξασθε τὴν ἑκούσιον αὐτῶν ὑπομονὴν δηλοῖ )  with joy the plundering of your goods (so reff.: in Luke 8:3 , we have τὰ ὑπάρχοντά τινι . Bleek quotes ἁρπαγὰς ὑπαρχόντων from Polyb. iv. 17. 4),  knowing that ye have for yourselves ( ἑαυτοῖς dat. commodi)  a better possession (reff.: a word of St. Luke’s)  and abiding ( τί ἐστι μένουσαν ; βεβαίαν , οὐχ οὕτως ἀπολλυμένην ὥσπερ ταύτην [cf. Mat 6:20 ]).