 27 .]  but (there is left remaining: ἀπολείπεται is common to both clauses)  a certain (this attaching of τις to an adjective is an elegance belonging to the more polished style of our Writer, and often found in the classics: e. g. ἐπίπονόν τινα βίον , Diod. Sic. Hebrews 10:39 ; ὅτι μικρόν τι μέρος εἴη στρατηγικῆς τὰ τακτικά , Xen. Cyr. i. 6. 14: καὶ Κύρῳ δὲ μεγάλην τινὰ δοκῶ ἡμᾶς χάριν ὀφείλειν , ibid. vi. 4. 7: see also ref. Acts, and cf. Winer, § 25. 2.  c . Bernhardy’s account of the usage, Syntax, p. 442. seems to be the true one, that it has the power of a doubled adjectival sense, and generalizes the quality predicated, indicating  some one of that kind, it may be  any one . This is exemplified where numerals, or the like of numerals are joined with τις , e. g. πᾶς τις , ἕκαστός τις , οὐδείς τις , τισὶν οὐ πολλοῖς (Thuc. vi. 94), τινὲς δύο νῆες (id. viii. 100), ἑκατόν τι (Arr. Ind. 7), ταύτας τινὰς τρεῖς (Plato, Rep. x. p. 601 D), as Cicero, “tres aliqui.” So here, some one φοβερὰ ἐκδοχή out of all that might befall various men and dispositions. The indefiniteness makes the declaration more awful)  fearful (objective, ‘tremendus,’ not ‘timidus,’  surchtbar , not  surchtsam : fearful to think of, frightful. No figure of hypallage must be thought of, as if φοβερὰ ἐκδοχὴ κρίσεως = ἐκδοχὴ κρίσεως φοβερᾶς , as Jac. Cappellus, Heinrichs, al., and Wolf, alt.)  reception (i. e.  meed, doom : not, as I believe universally interpreted without remark,  expectation .  ἐκδοχή appears never to have this sense, and this is the only place where it occurs in the N. T. Its meanings are, 1.  reception , principally by succession from another: e. g. Æschin. παραπρεσβ . p. 32. 18, οὐκ ὤκνουν κατ ʼ αὐτοῦ λέγειν Φιλίππου , ἐπιτιμῶν ὅτι τὴν ἐκδοχὴν ἐποιήσατο πρὸς τὴν πόλιν τοῦ πολέμου : Æschyl. Agam. 299, ἤγειρεν ἄλλην ἐκδοχὴν πόμπου πυρός : Eur. Hippol. 866, νεοχμὸν ἐκδοχαῖς ἐπεισφέρει κακόν : 2. peculiar to later Greek, and principally found in Polybius,  interpretation , acceptation, e. g. of the sense of a sentence: so καθάπερ ἐποιοῦντο τὴν ἐκδοχὴν οἱ Καρχηδόνιοι , Polyb. iii. 29. 4: ἐξ ὧν ἀνάγκη ποιεῖσθαι τὴν ἐκδοχὴν ὅτι κ . τ . λ ., “quibus ex rebus intelligi debet” &c., id. xii. 18.7. And so Origen, comm. in Joann. tom. Hebrews 10:4 , vol. iv. p. 98, διὰ τὴν πρόχειρον αὐτῆς ( τῆς γραφῆς ) ἐκδοχήν . But of the subjective sense, derived from the later meaning of ἐκδέχομαι , I find no hint or example, except the mere assertion in our N. T. lexicons, that it has that meaning in this place. From what follows, it is much better to take it objectively; all which ἀπολείπεται is, the reception of the doom of judgment, and the πυρὸς ζῆλος , &c.)  of judgment (i. e. by the  context , unfavourable judgment),  and fervour of fire (the stress is on πυρός , and πῦρ is personified. It is the fire of God’s presence, identified with Himself, exactly as in ch. Hebrews 12:29 , ὁ θεὸς ἡμῶν πῦρ καταναλίσκον : and it is the zeal, the fervour, the excandescence of this consuming fire, which awaits the apostate from Christ. τὸ πῦρ ἐκεῖνο , καθάπερ τις ὑπὸ ζήλου κεντούμενος , ὃν ἂν ἐπιλάβηται , οὐκ ἀφίησιν , ἀλλὰ τρώγει καὶ δαπανᾷ . Chrys. ὅρα , says Thl., πῶς οἷον ἐψύχωσε τὸ πῦρ )  which shall (in  μέλλοντος the Writer tranfers himself again to the present time: q. d. the fire which is destined to …)  devour ( οὐκ εἶπε φαγεῖν μόνον ἀλλ ʼ ἐσθίειν , ἀϊδίως δηλαδή . Thl. The same expression is found in Il. ψ . 182, τοὺς ἅμα σοι πάντας πῦρ ἐσθίει )  the adversaries (some have supposed the sense of  secret enemies to be conveyed by  ὑπεναντίους . But as Bl. remarks, the word is good Greek, and is constantly found, without any such further sense, representing merely  an enemy , e. g. Xen. Cyr. i. 6. 38, where ἐξαπατᾶν τοὺς πολεμίους and ἐξαπατᾶν τοὺς ὑπεναντίους are used as synonymous: Herod. iii. 80, where τὸ ὑπεναντίον τούτου is simply ‘the opposite of this:’ see Lexx. The ὑπό is simply what may be called the ‘subjectio rei secundariæ:’ the prime agent is ever supposed to be highest, and his accidents come up from beneath: thus ὑπέρχεταί μοί τι , cf. ἵνα σφι γένεα ὑπογίνηται , Herod. iii. 159, &c. It is probable that the Writer has throughout this clause had in his mind ref. Isa., ζῆλος λήψεται λαὸν ἀπαίδευτον , καὶ νῦν πῦρ τοὺς ὑπεναντίους ἔδεται ).