 29 .]  of how much worse punishment (though  τιμωρία does not elsewhere occur in the N. T., we have the verb, Acts 22:5 ; Act 26:11 ),  think ye (  δοκεῖτε stands separate from the construction, and forms an appeal to the judgment of the readers themselves),  shall he be found worthy (viz. by God. The participle is in the aor., as pointing to the single fact of the doom, not to a continued estimate),  who trampled under foot (aor. part. as spoken at that day, and looking back upon this life. τί δέ ἐστι καταπατήσας ; τουτέστι καταφρονήσας · ὥσπερ γὰρ τῶν καταπατουμένων οὐδένα λόγον ἔχομεν , οὕτω καὶ τοῦ χριστοῦ μηδένα λόγον ἔχοντες οὕτως ἐπὶ τὸ ἁμαρτάνειν ἐρχόμεθα . Thl. See reff., and cf. John 13:18 . Stier remarks, “Some of us remember the cry, ‘Ecrasez I’infame!’ ”)  the Son of God (the higher title of the Mediator of the new covenant is used, to heighten the enormity of the crime),  and accounted common the blood of the covenant (the  αἷμα τῆς διαθήκης , being the τίμιον αἷμα of Christ Himself, far above all blood of sprinkling under the old covenant. Even that ( Lev 16:19 ) had hallowing power: how much more this. But the apostate κοινὸν ἡγήσατο this blood accounted it mere ordinary blood of a common man, and if so, consented to its shedding, for then Christ deserved to die as a blasphemer. And this, of that holy Blood, by which we have access to God! So that we have quite enough for the solemn sense, by rendering  κοινόν  common , without going to the further meaning,  unclean . Chrys. gives both meanings: κοινόν , τί ἐστι ; τὸ ἀκάθαρτον , ἢ τὸ μηδὲν πλέον ἔχον τῶν λοιπῶν : Œc., κοινόν , τὸ μηδὲν τῶν ἄλλων διαφέρον , οἷον λέγουσιν οἱ φάσκοντες αὐτὸν ψιλὸν ἄνθρωπον · οὗτοι γὰρ οὐδὲν τοῦ ἡμετέρου διαλλάττον εἰς τιμὴν λέγουσιν αὐτό : Beza compares 1 Corinthians 11:29 , μὴ διακρίνων τὸ σῶμα : and Bretschneider quotes Justin Mart. Apol. i. 66, p. 83, οὐ γὰρ ὡς κοινὸν ἄρτον οὐδὲ κοινὸν πόμα ταῦτα λαμβάνομεν . Cf. Acts 10:28 , ἐμοὶ ὁ θεὸς ἔδειξεν μηδένα  κοινὸν ἢ ἀκάθαρτον λέγειν ἄνθρωπον , where the two are distinguished. Syr. has “hath counted the blood of the covenant of him by which (whom?) he hath been sanctified as that of every man.” The reader will recall our Lord’s own τὸ αἷμα τὸ τῆς κ . διαθήκης , cf. ref. Matt. [57] Mark. See also our ch. Heb 13:20 )  in which (as sprinkled with which; as his element and condition of sanctification)  he was sanctified (see Lev 16:19 LXX, and our ch. Heb 13:12 and Hebrews 9:13 . He had advanced so far in the reality of the spiritual life, that this blood had been really applied to his heart by faith, and its hallowing and purifying effects were visible in his life: which makes the contrast the more terrible. And Delitzsch finely remarks, as against the assertors of mere shallow supralapsarianism, that without former experience of grace, without a life of faith far more than superficial, so irrecoverable a fall into the abyss is not possible. It is worthy of remark how Calvin evades the deep truth contained in the words ἐν ᾧ ἡγιάσθη : “Valde indignum est sanguinem Christi,  qui sanctificationis nostræ materia est , profanare: hoc vero faciunt, qui desciscunt a fide:” thus making ἡγιάσθη into ἁγιαζόμεθα . Lightfoot’s idea, that  Christ is the subject of ἡγιάσθη , is hardly worth refutation (Hor. Hebr. in 1Co 11:29 ): as neither is that of Claudius, in Wolf, that διαθήκη is the subject),  and insulted (  ἐνυβρίζω , in prose, belongs to later Greek: but is found in the poets, e. g. Eur. Electr. 68, ἐν τοῖς ἐμοῖς οὐκ ἐνυβρίσας κακοῖς : Aristoph. Thesm. 719, τάχ ʼ οὐ χαίρων ἴσως ἐνυβρίσεις : Soph. Philoct. 342, with an accus. as here, πρᾶγμ ʼ ὅτῳ σ ʼ ἐνύβρισαν . In prose it is found in Ælian, Polybius, Herodian, Josephus, principally with a dative of the object)  the Spirit of grace (for  τὸ πν  .   τῆς χάριτος , see ref. No two things can be more opposed, as Del. remarks, than ὕβρις and χάρις . And this remark guides us to the answer to the question whether χάριτος here is a gen. objective or subjective: whether it is the πνεῦμα which belongs to χάρις , so that it is the gift of the divine χάρις (so Grot., Schlicht., De W., Bleek, Lünem., and most of the moderns), or χάρις which belongs to πνεῦμα , so that it is the gift of and the character of the πνεῦμα . The latter is adopted by Calv., Estius, a-Lapide, Justiniani (altern., but prefers it. He gives the alternative very neatly put by Pseudo-Anselm: “Spiritui sancto gratis dato, vel gratiam danti”), Beza, Owen, al., Böhme, Von Gerlach, Delitzsch, al., and is much the more probable, both on account of the prophecy which is referred to, ἐκχεῶ … πνεῦμα χάριτος κ . οἰκτιρμοῦ , and on account of ἐνυβρίσας , which is most naturally referred to a Person as its object. Chrys. strikingly says, ὁ τὴν εὐεργεσίαν μὴ παραδεχόμενος , ὕβρισε τὸν εὐεργετήσαντα . ἐποίησέ σε υἱόν · σὺ δὲ θέλεις γενέσθαι δοῦλος ; ἦλθε κατασκηνῶσαι πρός σε · σὺ δὲ ἐπεισάγεις σαυτῷ πονηροὺς λογισμούς . He does not hold with any definiteness that apostasy is here meant, but applies the whole text homiletically to wilful sin of any kind. Thl., in reproducing Chrys.’s sentence, puts τὸν διάβολον for πονηροὺς λογισμούς )?
	 [57] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .