 26 .]  For if we willingly sin (contrast to ἀκουσίως ἁμαρτάνειν , in reff. and the  ἑκουσίως ἁμαρτάνοντες to the ἀγνοοῦντες κ . πλανώμενοι , ch. Hebrews 5:2 . The sin meant by ἁμαρτάνειν is sufficiently defined by the connexion ( γάρ ) with the preceding exhortations, and by the description of one who has so sinned in Hebrews 10:29 . Neglect of assembling together, and loss of mutual exhortation and stimulus, would naturally result in (as it would be prompted by an inclination that way at first) the ἀποστῆναι ἀπὸ θεοῦ of ch. Hebrews 3:12 ; the παραπεσεῖν of ch. Hebrews 6:6 . It is the sin of apostasy from Christ back to the state which preceded the reception of Christ, viz. Judaism. This is the ground-sin of all other sins. Notice the present, not the aor. part. ‘If we be found wilfully sinning,’ not ‘if we have wilfully sinned,’ at that Day. It is not of an act or of any number of acts of sin, that the Writer is speaking, which might be repented of and blotted out: but of a  state of sin, in which a man is found when that day shall come)  after the receiving (having received)  the knowledge (“It is usually said that γνῶσις is the weaker word,  ἐπίγνωσις the stronger: or, the former the more general, the latter the more special: or, the former the more quiescent, the latter the more active: the truth in all these is, that when ἐπίγνωσις is used, there is the assumption of an actual direction of the spirit to a definite object and of a real grasping of the same: so that we may speak of a false γνῶσις , but not of a false ἐπίγνωσις . And the Writer, by the use of this word, gives us to understand that he means by it not only a shallow historical notion about the Truth, but a living believing knowledge of it, which has laid hold of a man and fused him into union with itself.” Delitzsch. It is most important here to keep this cardinal point distinctly in mind: that the ἑκουσίως ἁμαρτάνοντες are not mere professors of religion, but real converts, or else Heb 10:29 becomes unintelligible)  of the truth (the truth of God, as so often in St. Paul and St. John),  there is no longer left remaining (see on ch. Heb 4:6 )  a sacrifice for sins (for there is but One true sacrifice for sins: if a man, having availed himself of that One, then deliberately casts it behind him, there is no second left for him. It will be observed that one thing is not, and need not be, specified in the text. That he has exhausted the virtue of the one sacrifice, is not said: but in proportion to his willing rejection of it, has it ceased to operate for him. He has in fact, as Del. observes, shut the door of repentance behind him, by the very fact of his being in an abiding state of willing sin. And this is still more forcibly brought out when, which Del. does not notice, the scene of action is transferred to the great day of the Lord’s coming, and he is found in that impenitent state irreparably. This verse has been misunderstood, 1. by the Fathers, who apply it to the Novatian controversy, and make it assert the impossibility of a second baptism: so e. g. Thl., οὐ τὴν μετάνοιαν ἀναιρῶν λέγει ταῦτα , ὥς τινες παρενόησαν , ἀλλὰ δείκνυσιν , ὅτι οὐκ ἔστι δεύτερον βάπτισμα · διὸ οὐδὲ δεύτερος θάνατος τοῦ χριστοῦ . θυσίαν γὰρ τοῦτον καλεῖ , ὡς καὶ ἐν τοῖς κάτοπιν . μιᾷ γὰρ θυσίᾳ τετελείωκεν εἰς τὸ διηνεκές · τὸ γὰρ βάπτισμα ἡμῶν τὸν θάνατον εἰκονίζει τοῦ χριστοῦ . ὥσπερ οὖν ἐκεῖνος εἷς οὕτω καὶ τοῦτο ἕν . And similarly Chrys., Œc., and Augustine, Inchoat. Exposit. Ep. ad Rom. 19, vol. iii. pt. ii., Revelation 2:0 . By Theodore of Mopsuestia and others, who interpret it only of those in a state of impenitence, understanding that on penitence they will again come under the cleansing influence of the blood of Christ: οὐδὲ γὰρ ἐπὶ τοῦ παρόντος βίου τὴν μετάνοιαν ἀναιρεῖ , ἀλλὰ τὸ μὴ εἶναι τότε συγχώρησιν λαβεῖν τὸν ἐπὶ τοῦ πταίειν ἐνταῦθα μεμενηκότα , καὶ μηδεμίαν ἐπὶ τὸ πταίειν δεξάμενον αἴσθησιν , ἀλογίᾳ τινὶ μετὰ πολλῆς ἡδονῆς ἐπιτελοῦντα ἁμάρτημα );