 10 .]  In (the course of, the fulfilment of: not properly “by,” which belongs more to the διὰ below)  which will (viz. the will and purpose of God towards us by Christ: the will which He came to fulfil. There is no real difference, or alternative to be chosen, as Ebrard maintains, between the will of God to redeem us by the sufferings and death of Christ, and the will of God as fulfilled by Christ’s obedience: the one includes the other: the latter was the condition of the former. Justiniani inclines to understand ἐν ᾧ θελήματι of the will of  Christ , as expressed above: and so Calvin (quoting 1 Thessalonians 4:3 , “Hæc voluntas est  Christi , sanctificatio vestra”), Schöttgen, and Carpzov. But clearly this cannot be so)  we have been sanctified (see on the word  ἁγιάζω , and on the use of the present and past passive participles of it, note on ch. Hebrews 2:11 . Here the perfect part. is used, inasmuch as it is the finished work of Christ in its potentiality, not the process of it on us, which is spoken of: see Hebrews 10:14 , τετελείωκεν εἰς τὸ διηνεκὲς τοὺς ἁγιαζομένους : which final completion is here indicated by the perfect part.)  through the offering of the body (the reading αἵματος would, besides losing the reference to the σῶμα κατηρτίσω μοι , introduce an inaccuracy into the typology. It is by the Blood of Christ that we are reconciled to God, but by the offering of His Body that we are made holy. The one concerns our acceptance as acquitted from sin; the other our perfection in holiness by union with Him and participation in His Spirit. Thus we distinguish the two in the Communion Service: “that our sinful bodies may be made clean by His Body, and our souls washed through His most precious Blood”)  of Jesus Christ, once for all (it may seem doubtful to which  ἐφάπαξ belongs, whether to τῆς προσφορᾶς , or to ἡγιασμένοι ἐσμέν . For the former, may be said, that the  once-for-all-ness of the offering of Christ is often insisted on by our Writer, cf. ch. Hebrews 7:27 ; Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 9:26 ; Hebrews 9:28 ; Hebrews 9:12 ; Hebrews 9:14 . Against it, that thus we should seem to require the article τῆς before ἐφάπαξ . But this last is not needed, and no argument can be founded on its absence. Rather should we argue from the context, and say that the assertion is not mainly of our being sanctified once for all, though that does come in in Heb 10:14 as a consequence of the μία προσφορά , but of our sanctification having taken place by means of a final efficacious sacrifice, which does not, as those legal ones did, need repeating. I should therefore be disposed to join ἐφάπαξ with προσφορᾶς , with Syr., Œc., Thl. ( διὰ τῆς προσφορᾶς τοῦ σώματς τοῦ χριστοῦ τῆς ἐφάπαξ γενομένης ), Schlichting, Jac. Cappell., Limborch, Stein, al., and against Bleek, Lünem., Hofm., Delitzsch, and most of the best Commentators).