 17 .] Now comes the apodosis of the μετὰ γὰρ τὸ εἰρηκέναι , then, καὶ ἔσομαι αὐτοῖς εἰς θεὸν κ . τ . λ ., and καὶ οὐ μὴ διδάξωσιν κ . τ . λ ., ch. Hebrews 8:10-11 , being omitted (see below), he further says:  and their sins and their transgressions will I remember no more (it has been generally held since Beza and Camerarius, that the apodosis is introduced by λέγει κύριος , all that follows belonging to it. The reason for this, alleged by the later Commentators, is, the harshness of understanding ὕστερον λέγει , or the like, inserted in some unimportant mss. at the beginning of Hebrews 10:17 , as inconsistent with the concinnity of our Writer’s style. But as against this objection, may fairly be alleged the still greater harshness of breaking διαθήσομαι from its qualifying διδούς , and the improbability that the words λέγει κύριος , which occur in the passage cited, should be taken by the Writer as his own. But still more cogent reasons for making the apodosis begin at Heb 10:17 are, 1. that there the εἰρημένον ends, not at λέγει κύριος : there a hiatus in the citation occurs, and the Writer first passes on to that which is said after: 2. that Heb 10:17 itself carries the whole burden of the citation with it. This is the object of the citation, to prove that there needs no more sacrifice for sins. And the previous portion of it is adduced to shew that this, τῶν ἁμαρτ . αὐτ . κ . τῶν ἀνομ . αὐτ . οὐ μὴ μνησθήσομαι ἔτι , does form an integral part of the prophecy of the introduction of the new and spiritual covenant. So that both construction and sense are troubled by the modern idea of breaking at λέγει κύριος . With regard to any supposed harshness in the ellipsis at Hebrews 10:17 , I may remark that our Writer frequently uses καί in a kindred sense, as adducing new quotations: see ch. Hebrews 1:5 ; Heb 2:13 bis; Hebrews 4:5 ; Hebrews 10:30 . The break at Heb 10:17 is adopted by several cursive mss. (see Scholz), by Primasius, Clarius, Zeger, Schlichting, Estius, Jac. Cappellus, Grotius, Limborch, Carpzov, Heinrichs, Stuart, al.: the other, at λέγει κύριος , by Beza, Camer., al., and almost all the recent Commentators).