 1 .]  For (  γάρ connects with the whole passage ch. Hebrews 9:24-28 ; hitherto has been shewn the impossibility of Christ’s offering being repeated as were those of the law: now is to be shewn its absolute perfection as compared with those of the law)  the law, having (as it has; the participle has a ratiocinative force, which passes on upon what follows)  a shadow (or, ‘the shadow,’ which in sense would be much the same. The putting forward of the word to the beginning of the sentence would render it anarthrous. I prefer, however, ‘a shadow,’ because of the meaning of σκιάν , presently to be treated of: see below)  of the good things to come (viz. the same good things of which, in ch. Hebrews 9:11 , Christ is said to be the High Priest, which belong to the μέλλων αἰών of ch. Hebrews 6:5 , whose δυνάμεις are working in the present dispensation, and to the  completion of the οἰκουμένη μέλλουσα of ch. Hebrews 2:5 ; the good things which are still future to us as they were to those under the law, but are now made sure to us in and by Christ),  not the very image of the things (every representation of μελλόντων ἀγαθῶν must be an εἰκών , whether it be in words, or in types, or in any other method of representation. The full description and entire revelation of the things thus designated will be αὐτὴ ἡ εἰκὼν τῶν πραγμάτων : which we possess in the gospel covenant: the very setting forth and form of the heavenly realities themselves. So that the gen.  πραγμάτων is the ‘genitivus substantiæ,’ as in Colossians 3:10 , τὸν ἀνακαινούμενον … κατ ʼ εἰκόνα τοῦ κτίσαντος αὐτόν , and Romans 8:29 , συμμόρφους τῆς εἰκόνος τοῦ υἱοῦ , ὁ κτίσας in the one and ὁ υἱὸς αὐτοῦ in the other, being and furnishing the εἰκών . But the law had no such εἰκών constructed out of the heavenly realities themselves, “ipsas res, certa sua forma et effigie præditas,” as Stier: it had merely  σκιάν , merely a rough sketch or outline: so Chrys., not however to my mind entirely apprehending the identity of the εἰκών with the πράγματα which furnish it, σκιὰν … τουτέστιν οὐκ αὐτὴν τὴν ἀλήθειαν . ἕως μὲν γὰρ ἂν ὡς ἐν γραφῇ περιάγῃ τις τὰ χρώματα , σκιά τις ἐστίν · ὅταν δὲ τὸ ἄνθος ἐπαλείψῃ τις καὶ ἐπιχρίσῃ τὰ χρώματα , τότε εἰκὼν γίνεται . See also Thdrt. and Œc.),  year by year with the same sacrifices (most Commentators assume some inversion of arrangement in constructing the words κατ ʼ ἐνιαυτόν : some (Calvin, Erasm. Schmid, Wolf, Heinrichs, Bleek, De Wette, Stuart, al.) joining them with αἷς προσφέρουσιν , others (Lünem., al.) with ταῖς αὐταῖς θυσίαις , others (Carpzov, al.) with τοὺς προσερχομένους . But there is no need to disturb the plain order of the sentence, in which κατ ʼ ἐνιαυτόν belongs to all that follows, viz. to the verb, οὐδέποτε δύναται , with its instrumental clause, ταῖς αὐταῖς θυσίαις αἷς κ . τ . λ . And so Ebrard, Hofmann, and Delitzsch. “This,” says Del., “is more accordant with the sense of the Writer: for he does not say, that the law by means of the offerings which were always the same year by year never was able to perfect, &c., but that the law, year by year, by the repetition of the same offerings, testified its inability to perfect, &c., viz. on the day of atonement, on which the same expiatory offerings were always repeated, being necessary, not withstanding the many offerings brought throughout the year, and after which the same round of offerings again began anew.” It will be evident that  ταῖς αὐταῖς θυσίαις must refer, not to the daily offering, but to those of propitiation on the great day of atonement)  which they (the ministering priests, not οἱ προσερχόμενοι , as Hofmann ii. 1. 314, which would be against all the terminology of the Epistle, in which προσφέρειν is without exception confined to priests. We have the same distinction as regards the προσερχόμενοι in ch. Heb 7:25 )  offer continually (Hofmann would join this with what follows, alleging that εἰς τὸ διηνεκές does not mean continu  ally but continu  ously . And so Lachmann punctuates. But against such a construction I conceive it to be decisive, that thus αἷς προσφέρουσιν would be in the last degree flat and unmeaning, and that the verb δύναται would have two qualifying adverbial predicates, εἰς τὸ διηνεκές and οὐδέποτε . I do not imagine that any one accustomed to the style of our Epistle would tolerate such a sentence. And with regard to εἰς τὸ διηνεκές , granting the meaning to be  continuously , why may not that meaning be applicable here? Hofmann says that it is not applicable to a continually repeated act, but only to a continuously enduring agency. But why should not the offering of these sacrifices be looked upon as continuous, being unbroken from year to year? When I say, ‘The celebration of the day of atonement continued unbroken till the destruction of Jerusalem,’ I use the same method of expression, and might express my meaning in Greek by διηνεκὴς ἦν , ἕως )  never (not even at any time)  is able to perfect (see on ref., where I have entered into the meanings of  τελειοῦν in our Epistle)  those who draw near (to God, by means of them. Tholuck well remarks that this threefold κατ ʼ ἐνιαυτόν , ταῖς αὐταῖς θυσίαις , εἰς τὸ διηνεκές , graphically sets forth the ever recurring cycle of the yearly sacrifices for sin).