 32, 33. ] The interpretation of this answer is difficult, for two reasons (1) that the signification of the  σήμ  .,   αὔρ  ., and  ἡ τρίτη is doubtful (2) that the meaning of  τελειοῦμαι is also doubtful.
	The days mentioned are ordinarily supposed to be proverbially used;  σήμ  . for His present working  αὔριον  , for that between the present time and his arrival at Jerusalem  ἡ τρ  ., for that arrival, and the end of his work and course by his Death.
	Against this, is (1) the positive use of the  three days , in an affirmative sentence, of which no instance can be brought where the proverbial meaning is implied: (2) the πορεύεσθαι belonging to  all three in Luke 13:33 , whereas thus it only belongs to the two first.
	The interpretation adopted by Meyer (and Bleek) is this: In three days (literal days) the Lord’s working of miracles in Galilee would be ended, which had excited the apprehension of Herod: and then He would leave the territory, not for fear of Herod, but because He was going to Jerusalem to die. The objection to this is, that the sense of  ending these present works of healing , &c. does not seem a sufficient one for τελειοῦμαι . Meyer takes it as  middle but qu., is a  middle present ever thus placed alone? Is not such a form, when standing thus, necessarily passive? And though the word τελειοῦμαι is not found earlier than the writings of the Fathers in the sense of ‘  suffering martyrdom ,’ it is found in that of ‘  being perfected ’ which, as applied to the Lord,  included his Death: see reff. I own that neither of the above interpretations satisfies me, and still less the various modifications of them which have been proposed (e.g. by Stier and Wieseler; De Wette adopts none). Nor can I suggest any less open to objection: but merely state my conviction, (1) that the days mentioned must have some  definite fixed reference to three actual days: (2) that τελειοῦμαι is the  pres. pass. , and is used in the solemn sense elsewhere (reff.) attached to the word.
	If this Gospel had been a chronological calendar of our Lord’s journey, the meaning would probably have been clear: but as we have none such, it is, and I believe must remain, obscure. Bp. Wordsworth’s note is much to the point: “It must be remembered that Herod was ruler of Peræa as well as of Galilee: and that John the Baptist had been put to death at Machærus, where Herod had a palace, about ten miles E. of Jericho, and thirty E. of Jerusalem. St. Matt., Matthew 19:1 , and St. Mark, Mark 10:1 ; Mark 10:46 , speak of our Lord being in Peræa, whence He passed over the river Jordan, and so came to Jericho, and thence to Bethany and Jerusalem for His Passion. Herod had put John to death not in Galilee but in Peræa: and if our Lord was now, as seems probable, in Peræa or near it, it was very likely that the Pharisees should endeavour to intimidate Him with a threat of Herod’s anger.”
	 τῇ ἐχ  . = τῇ τρίτῃ above, and is not  less precise (Stier).
	 πορεύεσθαι  , to journey the very word in which they had addressed Him,  πορ  . ἐντεῦθεν .
	 οὐκ ἐνδ  ., a monopoly not without exceptions, for John had been put to death by Herod out of Jerusalem.
	But our Lord’s saying is not to be so literally pressed; He states the general rule, which in His own case was to be fulfilled. There is no reference to the power of the Sanhedrim to judge and condemn false prophets (as Grot., Lightf., &c. think), for the fact of  ἀπολέσθαι only is here in question; and our Lord never would place himself in such a category (Meyer).