 6 9. ] This Parable has perhaps been interpreted with hardly enough reference to its own peculiar context, or to the symbolic language of Scripture in other places. Ordinarily (also in Trench, Par. in loc.) the owner of the vineyard is explained to be the  Eternal Father: the dresser and intercessor, the  Son of God: the fig-tree, the  whole Jewish people: the vineyard, the  world . But it may be objected to this, that the owner  comes to seek the fruit, which can be properly said only of Him who εἰς τὰ ἴδια ἦλθεν who is even in Matt. ὁ κληρονόμος and by implication there, the  possessor of the vineyard ὅταν ἔλθῃ (for that destruction He universally represents as  His coming). The other objections will come out in the direct exposition of the Parable, which I take to be this: The link which binds it to the foregoing is ἐὰν μὴ μετανοῆτε …; and it is addressed rather to individuals than to the whole nation though of course to the whole nation as made up of individuals. The vineyard is not  the world , which would be wholly inconsistent with Scripture symbolism (for Mat 13:24 the comparison is to ἡ βασ . τ . οὐρ .  the gospel dispensation , in which the field  not the vineyard is the whole world); but, as in Isaiah 5:7 ,  the house of Israel and the men of Judah (see notes on Matthew 21:33 ff.). The fig-tree planted in the vineyard among the vines (a usual thing) denotes an individual application, fixing each man’s thought upon one tree and that one,  himself; just as the guest without the wedding-garment in Matthew 22:0 . He who had the tree planted in His vineyard ( ‘All things that the Father hath, are Mine’ Joh 16:15 ), came seeking fruit, and found it not: see Mat 21:19 and note. (The vinedresser, see below.) He commands it to be cut down, as encumbering the soil (exhausting it, rendering it inactive: see reff.); three years has He been coming and seeking fruit in this tree, and he findeth none. Then, at the intercession of the vinedresser, He consents (for this is implied) to spare it this year also, until it has been manured; if that fail, the Intercessor himself has no more plea to urge it is to be cut down. Now  who is this Intercessor? First look at the matter of fact.  Who were the vinedressers of God’s vineyard? They were many. Moses, the Prophets, the Baptist, the Lord Himself, the Apostles and Teachers after Him. But what  one Personality might be set forth as pervading all these, ‘striving with man’ in them all as being  ὁ ἀμπελουργός ? Clearly, it seems to me,  the Holy Spirit of God . In the passage just alluded to, Genesis 6:3 , we can hardly but recognize the main features of our present parable; especially when the Days of Noah are compared by the Lord Himself to His own coming to vengeance. The intercessory office of the Spirit ( ὁ παράκλητος , see on Joh 14:16 ), pleading with man and for man, and resigning that blessed conflict when met with inveterate obduracy, is often set before us in Scripture. (See the whole history of Saul; Zechariah 7:12-14 ; Proverbs 1:23-32 ; Isaiah 63:10 ; Nehemiah 9:20 ; Romans 8:26-27 .)