An apostle. This title is prefixed to Romans, 1st and 2nd Corinthians, Ephesians, Colossians. Here with special emphasis, because Paul 's apostleship had been challenged. Of men - by man [απ ανθρωπων - δι ανθρωπου] . Better, from men - through man or a man. In contradiction of the assertion that he was not directly commissioned by Jesus Christ, like the twelve, but only by human authority. From men, as authorising the office; through man, as issuing the call to the person. He thus distinguishes himself from false apostles who did not derive their commissions from God, and ranks himself with the twelve. Man does not point to any individual, but is in antithesis to Jesus Christ, or may be taken as = any man. By Jesus Christ. See Acts 11:4-6; 1 Corinthians 11:1. And God the Father. The genitive, governed by the preceding dia by or through. The idea is the same as an apostle by the will of God : 1 Corinthians 1:1; 2 Corinthians 1:1; Ephesians 1:1. Dia is used of secondary agency, as Matthew 1:22; Matthew 11:2; Luke 1:70; Acts 1:16; Hebrews 1:2. But we find dia qelhmatov qeou by the will of God, Romans 14:32; 1 Corinthians 1:1; 2 Corinthians 1:1, etc., and dia qeou by God, Galatians 4:7. Also dij ou= (God), 1 Corinthians 1:9; Hebrews 2:10. Who raised him from the dead [του εγειραντος αυτον εκ νεκρων] . It was the risen Christ who made Paul an apostle. For resurrection the N. T. uses ejgeirein to raise up; ejxegeirein to raise out of; egersiv raising or rising; ajnistanai to raise up; ajnastasiv and ejxanastasiv raising up and raising up out of. With nekrov dead are the following combinations : ejgeirein ajpo twn nekrwn [νεςερ απο νεκρων] to raise from the dead; ejg. ejk nek. or twn nek. to raise out of the dead; ajnasthsai to raise, ajnasthnai to be raised or to rise ejk. nek. [νεςερ απο] ; ajnast. ejk. nek.; or twn nek. resurrection of the dead; ajnast. ejk. nek.; ejxanastasiv ejk. nek rising or resurrection out of the dead or from among. It is impossible to draw nice distinctions between these phrases. 41