4. John—the apostle. For none
	but he (supposing the writer an honest man) would thus sign himself
	nakedly without addition. As sole survivor and representative of the
	apostles and eye-witnesses of the Lord, he needed no designation save
	his name, to be recognized by his readers. 
	seven churches—not that
	there were not more churches in that region, but the number seven
	is fixed on as representing totality. These seven
	represent the universal Church of all times and places. See TRENCH'S
	[Commentary on the Epistles to the Seven Churches in Asia]
	interesting note, Revelation 1:20, on
	the number seven. It is the covenant number, the sign
	of God's covenant relation to mankind, and especially to the Church.
	Thus, the seventh day, sabbath (Genesis 2:3;
	Ezekiel 20:12). Circumcision, the
	sign of the covenant, after seven days (Ezekiel 20:12- :). Sacrifices (Numbers 23:1;
	Numbers 14:29; 2 Chronicles 29:21).
	Compare also God's acts typical of His covenant (Joshua 6:4;
	Joshua 6:15; Joshua 6:16;
	2 Kings 5:10). The feasts ordered by
	sevens of time (Deuteronomy 15:1;
	Deuteronomy 16:9; Deuteronomy 16:13;
	Deuteronomy 16:15). It is a combination of
	three, the divine number (thus the Trinity: the thrice Holy,
	Isaiah 6:3; the blessing, Isaiah 6:3- :), and four the number of the organized world in
	its extension (thus the four elements, the four
	seasons, the four winds, the four corners or quarters
	of the earth, the four living creatures, emblems of redeemed
	creaturely life, Revelation 4:6; Ezekiel 1:5;
	Ezekiel 1:6, with four faces
	and four wings each; the four beasts and four
	metals, representing the four world empires, Daniel 2:32;
	Daniel 2:33; Daniel 7:3;
	the four-sided Gospel designed for all quarters of the world;
	the sheet tied at four corners, Daniel 7:3- :; the four horns, the sum of the world's forces
	against the Church, Zechariah 1:18).
	In the Apocalypse, where God's covenant with His Church comes to its
	consummation, appropriately the number seven recurs still more
	frequently than elsewhere in Scripture. 
	Asia—Proconsular,
	governed by a Roman proconsul: consisting of Phrygia, Mysia, Caria,
	and Lydia: the kingdom which Attalus III had bequeathed to Rome. 
	Grace . . . peace—Paul's
	apostolical greeting. In his Pastoral Epistles he inserts "mercy"
	in addition: so 2 John 1:3. 
	him which is . . . was . . .
	is to come—a periphrasis for the incommunicable name JEHOVAH,
	the self-existing One, unchangeable. In Greek the
	indeclinability of the designation here implies His unchangeableness.
	Perhaps the reason why "He which is to come" is used,
	instead of "He that shall be," is because the grand theme
	of Revelation is the Lord's coming (2 John 1:3- :). Still it is THE
	FATHER as distinguished
	from "Jesus Christ" (2 John 1:3- :) who is here meant. But so one are the Father and Son that
	the designation, "which is to come," more immediately
	applicable to Christ, is used here of the Father. 
	the seven Spirits which are
	before his throne—The oldest manuscripts omit "are." 
	before—literally, "in
	the presence of." The Holy Spirit in His sevenfold (that is,
	perfect, complete, and universal) energy. Corresponding to "the
	seven churches." One in His own essence, manifold in His
	gracious influences. The seven eyes resting on the stone laid
	by Jehovah (Revelation 5:6). Four is the
	number of the creature world (compare the fourfold cherubim); seven
	the number of God's revelation in the world.