11. I am Alpha and Omega, the first
	and the last; and—The oldest manuscripts, omit all this clause.
	write in a book—To this
	book, having such an origin, and to the other books of Holy
	Scripture, who is there that gives the weight which their importance
	demands, preferring them to the many books of the world?
	[BENGEL]. 
	seven churches—As there
	were many other churches in Proconsular Asia (for example, Miletus,
	Magnesia, Tralles), besides the seven specified, doubtless the number
	seven is fixed upon because of its mystical signification,
	expressing totality and universality. The words, "which
	are in Asia" are rejected by the oldest manuscripts, A, B, C,
	CYPRIAN, Vulgate,
	and Syriac; Coptic alone supports them of old authorities.
	These seven are representative churches; and, as a complex whole,
	ideally complete, embody the chief spiritual characteristics of the
	Church, whether as faithful or unfaithful, in all ages. The churches
	selected are not taken at random, but have a many-sided completeness.
	Thus, on one side we have Smyrna, a Church exposed to persecutions
	unto death; on the other Sardis, having a high name for
	spiritual life and yet dead. Again, Laodicea, in its own
	estimate rich and having need of nothing, with ample
	talents, yet lukewarm in Christ's cause; on the other hand,
	Philadelphia, with but a little strength, yet keeping
	Christ's word and having an open door of usefulness set
	before it by Christ Himself. Again, Ephesus, intolerant of evil
	and of false apostles, yet having left its first love;
	on the other hand, Thyatira, abounding in works, love, service,
	and faith, yet suffering the false prophetess to
	seduce many. In another aspect, Ephesus in conflict with false
	freedom, that is fleshly licentiousness (the Nicolaitanes); so also
	Pergamos in conflict with Balaam-like tempters to fornication and
	idol-meats; and on the other side, Philadelphia in conflict
	with the Jewish synagogue, that is, legal bondage. Finally, Sardis
	and Laodicea without any active opposition to call forth their
	spiritual energies; a dangerous position, considering man's natural
	indolence. In the historic scheme of interpretation, which seems
	fanciful, Ephesus (meaning "the beloved" or "desired"
	[STIER]) represents the
	waning period of the apostolic age. Smyrna ("myrrh"),
	bitter suffering, yet sweet and costly perfume, the martyr period of
	the Decian and Diocletian age. Pergamos (a "castle" or
	"tower"), the Church possessing earthly power and
	decreasing spirituality from Constantine's time until the seventh
	century. Thyatira ("unwearied about sacrifices"), the Papal
	Church in the first half of the Middle Ages; like "Jezebel,"
	keen about its so-called sacrifice of the mass, and slaying
	the prophets and witnesses of God. Sardis, from the close of the
	twelfth century to the Reformation. Philadelphia ("brotherly
	love"), the first century of the Reformation. Laodicea, the
	Reformed Church after its first zeal had become lukewarm.