6. And hath—rather as Greek,
	"And (He) hath." 
	made us kings—The
	oldest manuscripts read, "a kingdom." One oldest manuscript
	reads the dative, "for us." Another reads "us,"
	accusative: so Vulgate, Syriac, Coptic, and ANDREAS.
	This seems preferable, "He made us (to be) a kingdom." So
	Exodus 19:6, "a kingdom of
	priests"; 1 Peter 2:9, "a
	royal priesthood." The saints shall constitute peculiarly a
	kingdom of God, and shall themselves be kings (1 Peter 2:9- :). They shall share His King-Priest throne in the millennial
	kingdom. The emphasis thus falls more on the kingdom than on
	priests: whereas in English Version reading it is
	equally distributed between both. This book lays prominent stress on
	the saints' kingdom. They are kings because they are priests:
	the priesthood is the continuous ground and legitimization of their
	kingship; they are kings in relation to man, priests in relation to
	God, serving Him day and night in His temple (Revelation 7:15;
	Revelation 5:10). The priest-kings shall
	rule, not in an external mechanical manner, but simply in virtue of
	what they are, by the power of attraction and conviction overcoming
	the heart [AUBERLEN]. 
	priests—who have
	pre-eminently the privilege of near access to the king. David's sons
	were priests (Hebrew), Revelation 5:10- :. The distinction of priests and people, nearer and
	more remote from God, shall cease; all shall have nearest access to
	Him. All persons and things shall be holy to the Lord. 
	God and his Father—There
	is but one article to both in the Greek, therefore it means,
	"Unto Him who is at once God and His Father." 
	glory and dominion—Greek,
	"the glory and the might." The fuller
	threefold doxology occurs, Revelation 4:9;
	Revelation 4:11; fourfold, Revelation 5:13;
	Judges 1:25; sevenfold, Revelation 7:12;
	1 Chronicles 29:11. Doxology occupies the
	prominent place above, which prayer does below. If we thought of
	God's glory first (as in the Lord's Prayer), and gave the
	secondary place to our needs, we should please God and gain our
	petitions better than we do. 
	for ever and ever—Greek,
	"unto the ages."