5. the faithful witness—of the
	truth concerning Himself and His mission as Prophet, Priest, and King
	Saviour. "He was the faithful witness, because all things
	that He heard of the Father He faithfully made known to His
	disciples. Also, because He taught the way of God in truth, and cared
	not for man, nor regarded the persons of men. Also, because the truth
	which He taught in words He confirmed by miracles. Also, because the
	testimony to Himself on the part of the Father He denied not even in
	death. Lastly, because He will give true testimony of the works of
	good and bad at the day of judgment" [RICHARD
	OF ST. VICTOR
	in TRENCH]. The nominative
	in Greek standing in apposition to the genitive, "Jesus
	Christ," gives majestic prominence to "the faithful
	witness." 
	the first-begotten of the
	dead— (Colossians 1:18). Lazarus
	rose, to die again. Christ rose to die no more. The image is not as
	if the grave was the womb of His resurrection-birth [ALFORD];
	but as Acts 13:33; Romans 1:4,
	treat Christ's resurrection as the epoch and event which
	fulfilled the Scripture, Psalms 2:7,
	"This day (at the resurrection) have I begotten Thee."
	It was then that His divine Sonship as the God-man was manifested and
	openly attested by the Father. So our resurrection and our manifested
	sonship, or generation, are connected. Hence "regeneration"
	is used of the resurrection-state at the restitution of all
	things (Matthew 19:28). 
	the prince—or Ruler.
	The kingship of the world which the tempter offered to Jesus on
	condition of doing homage to him, and so shunning the cross, He has
	obtained by the cross. "The kings of the earth" conspired
	against the Lord's Anointed (Matthew 19:28- :): these He shall break in pieces (Matthew 19:28- :). Those who are wise in time and kiss the Son shall bring
	their glory unto Him at His manifestation as King of kings, after
	He has destroyed His foes. 
	Unto him that loved us—The
	oldest manuscripts read the present, ". . . loveth us."
	It is His ever-continuing character, He loveth us, and ever
	shall love us. His love rests evermore on His people. 
	washed us—The two
	oldest manuscripts read, "freed (loosed as from a bond)
	us": so ANDREAS and
	PRIMASIUS. One very old
	manuscript, Vulgate, and Coptic read as English
	Version, perhaps drawn from Matthew 19:28- :. "Loosed us in (virtue of) His blood," being the
	harder reading to understand, is less likely to have come from
	the transcribers. The reference is thus to Greek, "lutron,"
	the ransom paid for our release (Matthew 19:28- :). In favor of English Version reading is the usage
	whereby the priests, before putting on the holy garments and
	ministering, washed themselves: so spiritually believers, as
	priests unto God, must first be washed in Christ's
	blood from every stain before they can serve God aright now, or
	hereafter minister as dispensers of blessing to the subject nations
	in the millennial kingdom, or minister before God in heaven.