Lying [επιπεσων] . This word is, literally, to fall upon, and is so rendered in almost every instance in the New Testament. In Mark 3:10, it is applied to the multitudes pressing upon Christ. It occurs, however, nowhere else in John, and therefore some of the best authorities read ajnapeswn, leaning back, a verb which John uses several times in the Gospel, as in ver. 12. 44 So Rev. Whichever of the two is read, it points out the distinction, which the A. V. misses by the translation lying, between hn ajnakeimenov (ver. 23), which describes the reclining position of John throughout the meal, and the sudden change of posture pictured by ajnapeswn, leaning back. The distinction is enforced by the different preposition in each case : reclining in [εν] Jesus ' bosom, and leaning back [ανα] . Again, the words bosom and breast represent different words in the Greek; kolpov representing more generally the bend formed by the front part of the reclining person, the lap, and sthqov the breast proper. The verb ajnapiptw, to lean back, always in the New Testament describes a change of position. It is used of a rower bending back for a fresh stroke. Plato, in the well - known passage of the "Phaedrus," in which the soul is described under the figure of two horses and a charioteer, says that when the charioteer beholds the vision of love he is afraid, and falls backward [ανεπεσεν] , so that he brings the steeds upon their haunches. As he was [ουτως] . Inserted by the best texts, and not found in the A. V. Reclining as he was, he leaned back. The general attitude of reclining was maintained. Compare John 4:6 : "sat thus [ουτως] on the well." According to the original institution, the Passover was to be eaten standing (Exodus 12:11). After the Captivity the custom was changed, and the guests reclined. The Rabbis insisted that at least a part of the Paschal meal should be eaten in that position, because it was the manner of slaves to eat standing, and the recumbent position showed that they had been delivered from bondage into freedom. Breast [στηθος] . From isthmi, to cause to stand. Hence, that which stands out. In later writings John was known as oJ ejpisthqiov, the one on the breast, or the bosom friend.