Before the Feast of the Passover. This clause is to be construed with hjgaphsen, loved, at the close of this verse. Notice that John, in mentioning the Passover, here drops the explanatory phrase of the Jews (xi. 55). It is not the Passover of the Jews which Jesus is about to celebrate, which had degenerated into an empty form, but the national ordinance, according to its true spirit, and with a development of its higher meaning. Knowing [ειδως] . Or, since he knew. His hour. See on 12 23, and compare John 2:4. That [ινα] . In order that; marking the departure as a divine decree. Depart [μεταβη] . The compounded preposition meta, signifies passing over from one sphere into another. His own [τους ιδιους] . See on Acts 1:7. Compare John 17:6 sqq.; Acts 4:23; Acts 24:23; 1 Timothy 5:8; John 1:11. He loved [ηγαπησεν] . Notice that John uses the word indicating the discriminating affection : the love of choice and selection. See on 5 20. Unto the end [εις τελος] . Interpretations differ. The rendering of the A. V. and Rev. is of doubtful authority. The passages cited in support of this, Matthew 10:22; Matthew 24:13; Mark 13:13, may all be rendered to the uttermost. Morever, other formulas are used where the meaning to the end is unquestionable. In Revelation 2:26, the only other instance in John's writings where telov is used in an adverbial phrase the expression is acri telouv, unto the end. Similarly Hebrews 6:11. In Hebrews 3:6, Hebrews 3:14, mecri telouv, unto the end. The phrase may mean at last, and so is rendered by many here, as Meyer, Lange, Thayer (Lex.). "At last He loved them;" that is, showed them the last proof of His love. This is the most probable rendering in Luke 18:5, on which see note. It may also mean to the uttermost, completely. So Westcott and Godet. But I am inclined, with Meyer, to shrink from the "inappropriate gradation" which is thus implied, as though Jesus ' love now reached a higher degree than before [αγαπησας] . Hence I prefer the rendering at last, or finally He loved them, taking hjgaphsen, loved, in the sense of the manifestation of His love. This sense frequently attaches to the verb. See, for instance, 1 John 4:10 (" love viewed in its historic manifestation " Westcott), and compare John 3:16; Ephesians 2:4; Ephesians 5:2, Ephesians 5:25; 2 Thessalonians 2:16; Revelation 3:9.