To whom I shall give a sop when I have dipped it [ω εγω βαψας το ψωμιον επιδωσω] . The best texts read w ejgw bayw to ywmion kai dwsw aujtw, for whom I shall dip the sop and give it him. Sop [ψωμιον] . Only in this chapter. Diminutive from ywmov, a morsel, which, in turn, is from yaw, to rub, or to crumble. Homer, of the Cyclops : "Then from his mouth came bits [ψωμοι] of human flesh Mingled with wine." " Odyssey, " 9, 374. And Xenophon : "And on one occasion having seen one of his companions at table tasting many dishes with one bit [ψωμω] of bread" (" Memorabilia, "3 14, 15). The kindred verb ywmizw, rendered feed, occurs Romans 12:20; 1 Corinthians 13:3. See also Septuagint, Psalms 79:5; Psalms 80:16. According to its etymology, the verb means to feed with morsels; and it was used by the Greeks of a nurse chewing the food and administering it to an infant. So Aristophanes :" And one laid the child to rest, and another bathed it, and another fed [εψωμισεν] it "(" Lysistrate," 19, 20). This sense may possibly color the word as used in Romans 12:20 : "If thine enemy hunger, feed [ψωμιζε] him;" with tender care. In 1 Corinthians 13:3, the original sense appears to be emphasized : "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor [ψωμισω] ." This idea is that of doling away in morsels. Dean Stanley says : "Who that has witnessed the almsgiving in a Catholic monastery, or the court of a Spanish or Sicilian bishop 's or archbishop's palace, where immense revenues are syringed away in farthings to herds of beggars, but must feel the force of the Apostle 's half satirical ywmisw?" Dipped the sop. Compare Matthew 26:23; Mark 14:20. The regular sop of the Paschal supper consisted of the following things wrapped together : flesh of the Paschal lamb, a piece of unleavened bread, and bitter herbs. The sauce into which it was dipped does not belong to the original institution, but had been introduced before the days of Christ. According to one authority it consisted of only vinegar and water (compare Ruth 2:14); others describe it as a mixture of vinegar, figs, dates, almonds, and spice. The flour which was used to thicken the sauce on ordinary occasions was forbidden at the Passover by the Rabbins, lest it might occasion a slight fermentation. According to some, the sauce was beaten up to the consistence of mortar, in order to commemorate the toils of the Israelites in laying bricks in Egypt. To Judas Iscariot the son of Simon [ιουδα σιμωνος ισκαριωτη] . The best texts read Iskariwtou. "Judas the son of Simon Iscariot." So John 6:71. The act was a mark of forbearance and goodwill toward the traitor, and a tacit appeal to his conscience against the contemplated treachery.