 Past  (παρεληλυθως). Perfect active participle of the compound verb παρερχομα, old verb, to go by (beside) as in Matthew 14:15 with ωρα (hour).May suffice  (αρκετος). No copula in the Greek, probably εστιν (is) rather than δυνατα (can). Late and rare verbal adjective from αρκεω, to suffice, in the papyri several times, in N.T. only here and Matthew 6:34; Matthew 10:25, apparently referring to Christ's words in Matthew 6:34 (possibly an axiom or proverb).To have wrought  (κατειργασθα). Perfect middle infinitive of κατεργαζομα, common compound (κατα, εργον work) as in 1 Corinthians 5:3.The desire  (το βουλημα). Correct text, not θελημα. Either means the thing desired, willed. Jews sometimes fell in with the ways of Gentiles (Romans 2:21-24; Romans 3:9-18; Ephesians 2:1-3) as today some Christians copy the ways of the world.And to have walked  (πεπορευμενους). Perfect middle participle of πορευομα in the accusative plural of general reference with the infinitive κατειργασθα. Literally, "having walked or gone."In lasciviousness  (εν ασελγειαις). All these sins are in the locative case with εν. "In unbridled lustful excesses" (2 Peter 2:7; 2 Corinthians 12:21).Lusts  (επιθυμιαις). Cf. 1 Peter 2:11; 1 Peter 4:2.Winebibbings  (οινοφλυγιαις). Old compound (οινος, wine, φλυω, to bubble up), for drunkenness, here only in N.T. (also in Deuteronomy 21:20).Revellings  (κομοις). Old word (from κειμα, to lie down), rioting drinking parties, in N.T. here and Galatians 5:21; Romans 13:13.Carousings  (ποτοις). Old word for drinking carousal (from πινω, to drink), here only in the N.T. In the light of these words it seems strange to find modern Christians justifying their "personal liberty" to drink and carouse, to say nothing of the prohibition law. The Greeks actually carried lust and drunkenness into their religious observances (Aphrodite, for instance).Abominable idolatries  (αθεμιτοις ειδωλολατριαις). To the Christian all "idolatry," (ειδωλον, λατρεια), worship of idols, is "abominable," not allowed (alpha privative and θεμιτος, θεμιστος the old form, verbal of θεμιζω, to make lawful), but particularly those associated with drinking and licentiousness. The only other N.T. example of αθεμιτος is by Peter also (Acts 10:28) and about the Mosaic law. That may be the idea here, for Jews often fell into idolatrous practices (Deissmann, Bible Studies, p. 274). 