18. Gentle and loving irony.
	Take My advice, thou who fanciest thyself in need of
	nothing. Not only art thou not in need of nothing, but art in
	need of the commonest necessaries of existence. He graciously stoops
	to their modes of thought and speech: Thou art a people ready to
	listen to any counsel as to how to buy to advantage;
	then, listen to My counsel (for I am "Counsellor,"
	Isaiah 9:6), buy of ME"
	(in whom, according to Paul's Epistle written to the
	neighboring Colosse and intended for the Laodicean Church also,
	Colossians 2:1; Colossians 2:3;
	Colossians 4:16, are hidden all the
	treasures of wisdom and knowledge). "Buy" does not
	imply that we can, by any work or merit of ours, purchase
	God's free gift; nay the very purchase money consists in the
	renunciation of all self-righteousness, such as Laodicea had (Colossians 4:16- :). "Buy" at the cost of thine own self-sufficiency
	(so Paul, Philippians 3:7; Philippians 3:8);
	and the giving up of all things, however dear to us, that would
	prevent our receiving Christ's salvation as a free gift,
	for example, self and worldly desires. Compare Philippians 3:8- :, "Buy . . . without money and price." 
	of me—the source of
	"unsearchable riches" (Philippians 3:8- :). Laodicea was a city of extensive money transactions
	[CICERO]. 
	gold tried in,
	c.—literally, "fired (and fresh) from the fire,"
	that is, just fresh from the furnace which has proved its
	purity, and retaining its bright gloss. Sterling spiritual wealth, as
	contrasted with its counterfeit, in which Laodicea boasted itself.
	Having bought this gold she will be no longer poor (Philippians 3:8- :). 
	mayest be rich—Greek,
	"mayest be enriched." 
	white raiment—"garments."
	Laodicea's wools were famous. Christ offers infinitely whiter
	raiment. As "gold tried in the fire" expresses faith
	tested by fiery trials: so "white raiment," Christ's
	righteousness imputed to the believer in justification and
	imparted in sanctification. 
	appear—Greek,
	"be manifested," namely, at the last day, when everyone
	without the wedding garment shall be discovered. To strip one, is in
	the East the image of putting to open shame. So also to clothe one
	with fine apparel is the image of doing him honor. Man can discover
	his shame, God alone can cover it, so that his nakedness shall not be
	manifested at last (Philippians 3:8- :). Blessed is he whose sin is so covered. The
	hypocrite's shame may be manifested now it must be so at last. 
	anoint . . . with
	eye-salve—The oldest manuscripts read, "(buy of Me)
	eye-salve (collyrium, a roll of ointment), to anoint
	thine eyes." Christ has for Laodicea an ointment far more
	precious than all the costly unguents of the East. The eye is
	here the conscience or inner light of the mind. According as it is
	sound and "single" (Greek, "haplous,"
	"simple"), or otherwise, the man sees aright spiritually,
	or does not. The Holy Spirit's unction, like the ancient eye-salve's,
	first smarts with conviction of sin, then heals. He opens our eyes
	first to ourselves in our wretchedness, then to the Saviour in His
	preciousness. TRENCH
	notices that the most sunken churches of the seven, namely, Sardis
	and Laodicea, are the ones in which alone are specified no opponents
	from without, nor heresies from within. The Church owes much to God's
	overruling Providence which has made so often internal and external
	foes, in spite of themselves, to promote His cause by calling forth
	her energies in contending for the faith once delivered to the
	saints. Peace is dearly bought at the cost of spiritual stagnation,
	where there is not interest enough felt in religion to contend about
	it at all.