4. The three oldest manuscripts
	prefix "but," or "nevertheless" (notwithstanding
	thy spiritual deadness), and omit "even." 
	names—persons named
	in the book of life (Revelation 3:5)
	known by name by the Lord as His own. These had the reality
	corresponding to their name; not a mere name among men as
	living, while really dead (Revelation 3:5- :). The gracious Lord does not overlook any exceptional cases
	of real saints in the midst of unreal professors. 
	not defiled their
	garments—namely, the garments of their Christian profession, of
	which baptism is the initiatory seal, whence the candidates for
	baptism used in the ancient Church to be arrayed in white. Compare
	also Ephesians 5:27, as to the
	spotlessness of the Church when she shall be presented to Christ; and
	Revelation 19:8, as to the "fine
	linen, clean and white, the righteousness of the saints," in
	which it shall be granted to her to be arrayed; and "the wedding
	garment." Meanwhile she is not to sully her Christian profession
	with any defilement of flesh or spirit, but to "keep her
	garments." For no defilement shall enter the heavenly city. Not
	that any keep themselves here wholly free from defilement; but, as
	compared with hollow professors, the godly keep themselves
	unspotted from the world; and when they do contract it, they wash
	it away, so as to have their "robes white in the blood of the
	Lamb" (Revelation 7:14). The Greek
	is not "to stain" (Greek, "miainein"),
	but to "defile," or besmear (Greek, "molunein"),
	Song of Solomon 5:3. 
	they shall walk with me in
	white—The promised reward accords with the character of those
	to be rewarded: keeping their garments undefiled and white
	through the blood of the Lamb now, they shall walk with Him in
	while hereafter. On "with me," compare the very same
	words, Luke 23:43; John 17:24.
	"Walk" implies spiritual life, for only the living walk;
	also liberty, for it is only the free who walk at large. The grace
	and dignity of flowing long garments is seen to best advantage when
	the person "walks": so the graces of the saint's manifested
	character shall appear fully when he shall serve the Lord
	perfectly hereafter (Revelation 22:3). 
	they are worthy—with
	the worthiness (not their own, but that) which Christ has put on them
	(Revelation 7:14). Revelation 7:14- :, "perfect through MY comeliness which I had put upon
	thee." Grace is glory in the bud. "The worthiness
	here denotes a congruity between the saint's state of grace on
	earth, and that of glory, which the Lord has appointed for
	them, about to be estimated by the law itself of grace"
	[VITRINGA]. Contrast Revelation 7:14- :.