14. Laodiceans—The city was in
	the southwest of Phrygia, on the river Lycus, not far from Colosse,
	and lying between it and Philadelphia. It was destroyed by an
	earthquake, A.D. 62, and
	rebuilt by its wealthy citizens without the help of the state
	[TACITUS, Annals,
	14.27]. This wealth (arising from the excellence of its wools) led to
	a self-satisfied, lukewarm state in spiritual things, as  :- describes. See on  :-,
	on the Epistle which is thought to have been written to the Laodicean
	Church by Paul. The Church in latter times was apparently
	flourishing; for one of the councils at which the canon of Scripture
	was determined was held in Laodicea in A.D.
	361. Hardly a Christian is now to be found on or near its site. 
	the Amen— ( :-, Hebrew, "Bless Himself in the God of Amen
	. . . swear by the God of Amen,"  :-). He who not only says, but is, the Truth. The saints
	used Amen at the end of prayer, or in assenting to the word of
	God; but none, save the Son of God, ever said, "Amen, I say unto
	you," for it is the language peculiar to God, who avers by
	Himself. The New Testament formula, "Amen. I say unto you,"
	is equivalent to the Old Testament formula, "as I live,
	saith Jehovah." In John's Gospel alone He uses (in the Greek)
	the double "Amen," John 1:51;
	John 3:3, c. in English
	Version," Verily, verily." The title happily harmonizes
	with the address. His unchanging faithfulness as "the Amen"
	contrasts with Laodicea's wavering of purpose, "neither hot nor
	cold" (Revelation 3:16). The angel
	of Laodicea has with some probability been conjectured to be
	Archippus, to whom, thirty years previously, Paul had already given a
	monition, as needing to be stirred up to diligence in his ministry.
	So the Apostolic Constitutions, [8.46], name him as the first
	bishop of Laodicea: supposed to be the son of Philemon (Revelation 3:16- :). 
	faithful and true witness—As
	"the Amen" expresses the unchangeable truth of His
	promises; so "the faithful the true witness," the truth of
	His revelations as to the heavenly things which He has seen and
	testifies. "Faithful," that is, trustworthy (2 Timothy 2:11;
	2 Timothy 2:13). "True" is
	here (Greek, "alethinos") not
	truth-speaking (Greek, "alethes"), but
	"perfectly realizing all that is comprehended in the name
	Witness" (1 Timothy 6:13).
	Three things are necessary for this: (1) to have seen with His own
	eyes what He attests; (2) to be competent to relate it for others;
	(3) to be willing truthfully to do so. In Christ all these conditions
	meet [TRENCH]. 
	beginning of the creation of
	God—not he whom God created first, but as in 1 Timothy 6:13- : (see on 1 Timothy 6:13- :),
	the Beginner of all creation, its originating instrument. All
	creation would not be represented adoring Him, if He were but one of
	themselves. His being the Creator is a strong guarantee for His
	faithfulness as "the Witness and Amen."