21. sit with me in my throne—
	(Revelation 2:26; Revelation 2:27;
	Revelation 20:6; Matthew 19:28;
	Matthew 20:23; John 17:22;
	John 17:24; 2 Timothy 2:12).
	The same whom Christ had just before threatened to spue out of His
	mouth, is now offered a seat with Him on His throne! "The
	highest place is within reach of the lowest; the faintest spark of
	grace may be fanned into the mightiest flame of love" [TRENCH].
	even as I also—Two
	thrones are here mentioned: (1) His Father's, upon which He now sits,
	and has sat since His ascension, after His victory over death, sin,
	the world; upon this none can sit save God, and the God-man Christ
	Jesus, for it is the incommunicable prerogative of God alone; (2) the
	throne which shall be peculiarly His as the once humbled and
	then glorified Son of man, to be set up over the whole earth
	(heretofore usurped by Satan) at His coming again; in this the
	victorious saints shall share (2 Timothy 2:12- :). The transfigured elect Church shall with Christ judge and
	reign over the nations in the flesh, and Israel the foremost of them;
	ministering blessings to them as angels were the Lord's mediators of
	blessing and administrators of His government in setting up His
	throne in Israel at Sinai. This privilege of our high calling belongs
	exclusively to the present time while Satan reigns, when alone there
	is scope for conflict and for victory (2 Timothy 2:11;
	2 Timothy 2:12). When Satan shall be
	bound (Revelation 20:4), there shall be
	no longer scope for it, for all on earth shall know the Lord from the
	least to the greatest. This, the grandest and crowning promise, is
	placed at the end of all the seven addresses, to gather all in one.
	It also forms the link to the next part of the book, where the Lamb
	is introduced seated on His Father's throne (Revelation 4:2;
	Revelation 4:3; Revelation 5:5;
	Revelation 5:6). The Eastern throne is
	broad, admitting others besides him who, as chief, occupies the
	center. TRENCH notices;
	The order of the promises in the seven epistles corresponds to that
	of the unfolding of the kingdom of God its first beginnings on earth
	to its consummation in heaven. To the faithful at Ephesus: (1) The
	tree of life in the Paradise of God is promised (Revelation 5:6- :), answering to Genesis 2:9.
	(2) Sin entered the world and death by sin; but to the faithful at
	Smyrna it is promised, they shall not be hurt by the second death
	(Revelation 2:11). (3) The promise of
	the hidden manna (Revelation 2:17)
	to Pergamos brings us to the Mosaic period, the Church in the
	wilderness. (4) That to Thyatira, namely, triumph over the nations
	(Revelation 2:26; Revelation 2:27),
	forms the consummation of the kingdom in prophetic type, the period
	of David and Solomon characterized by this power of the nations.
	Here there is a division, the seven falling into two groups, four
	and three, as often, for example, the Lord's Prayer, three and four.
	The scenery of the last three passes from earth to heaven, the Church
	contemplated as triumphant, with its steps from glory to glory. (5)
	Christ promises to the believer of Sardis not to blot his name out of
	the book of life but to confess him before His Father and the angels
	at the judgment-day, and clothe him with a glorified body of dazzling
	whiteness (Revelation 3:4; Revelation 3:5).
	(6) To the faithful at Philadelphia Christ promises they shall be
	citizens of the new Jerusalem, fixed as immovable pillars there,
	where city and temple are one (Revelation 3:5- :); here not only individual salvation is promised to the
	believer, as in the case of Sardis, but also privileges in the
	blessed communion of the Church triumphant. (7) Lastly, to the
	faithful of Laodicea is given the crowning promise, not only the two
	former blessings, but a seat with Christ on His throne, even as He
	has sat with His Father on His Father's throne (Revelation 3:5- :).