 13 .] But this curse has been removed by the redemption of Christ. The joyful contrast is introduced abruptly, without any connecting particle: see an asyndeton in a similar case in Colossians 3:4 . The ἡμᾶς is emphatic, and applies solely to the JEWS.  They only were under the curse of Galatians 3:10 , and they being by Christ redeemed from that curse, the blessing of Abraham (justification by faith), which was always destined by God to flow through the Jews to the Gentiles, was set at liberty thus to flow out to the Gentiles. This, which is Meyer’s view, is certainly the only one which suits the context. To make ἡμᾶς refer to Jews and Gentiles, and refer ἡ κατ . τοῦ νόμ . to the law of conscience, is to break up the context altogether.
	 ἐξηγόρ  . ] See, besides reff., 1 Corinthians 6:20 ; 1Co 7:23 ; 2 Peter 2:1 ; Revelation 5:9 . Ellicott remarks, ‘the ἐξ - need not be very strongly pressed, see Polyb. iii. 42 2, ἐξηγόρασε παρ ʼ αὐτῶν τά τε μονόξυλα πλοῖα κ . τ . λ .… The tendency,’ he continues, ‘to use verbs compounded with prepositions without any obvious increase of meaning, is one of the characteristics of later Greek: so Thiersch, de Pentat. vers. alex. ii. 1, p. 83.’
	The form of the idea is, the Law (personified) held us (Jews) under its curse; (  out of this )  Christ bought us , BECOMING (emphatic, standing first)  a curse (not ἐπικατάρατος , concrete, but κατάρα , abstract, to express that he became not only accursed, but the curse, coextensive with the disability which affected us)  for us (the JEWS again. Not, as many older Commentators, and Rück., Olsh., Peile, &c., ‘  instead of us ,’ but ‘  on our behalf .’ It  was in our stead; but that circumstance is not expressed by ὑπέρ used of Christ’s death for us see reff. and Ellic.’s note; and Usteri, Paulin. Lehrbegriff, p. 115 ff.).
	 ὅτι γέγρ  . κ . τ . λ . is a parenthesis, justifying the formal expression γενόμ . ὑπ . ἡμ . κατάρα . The citation omits the words ὑπὸ θεοῦ of the LXX. They were not to the point here, being understood as matter of course, the law being  God’s law. The article  ὁ is not in the LXX. The words are spoken of hanging  after death by stoning ; and are given in I. c. as a reason why the body should not remain on the tree all night, because one hanging on a tree is accursed of God. Such formal curse then extended to Christ, who  died by hanging on a tree.