 22 .]  But on the contrary (  ἀλλά , not δέ : comp. Ellic. This not being the case, no law being given out of which could come righteousness)  the Scripture (not the Law, as Chrys. and most of the Fathers, also Calv., Beza, al.; but as in Galatians 3:8 , the Author of Scripture, speaking by that His witness)  shut up (not subjective, as Chrys., ἤλεγξεν … κ . ἐλέγξας κατεῖχεν ἐν φόβῳ , for it is their objective state of incapacity to attain righteousness which is here brought out: nor ‘conclusit omnes simul,’ as Bengel, al.: the preposition enhances the force of κλείειν , as in ‘contraho,’ συμπνίγειν , &c.: see note Romans 11:32 , where the same expression occurs. “The word συγκλείειν is beautifully chosen, to set off more clearly the idea of Christian freedom by and by.” Windischmann: cf. ch. Galatians 5:1 . Nor has συγκλ . merely a declaratory sense, as Bull, Examen Censuræ xix. 6, ‘conclusos involutos declaravit,’ al.)  all (neuter, as indicating the entirety of mankind and man’s world: ‘humana omnia,’ as Jowett: cf. reff. I think (against Ellic. Exodus 2:0 ) that we must hold fast this)  under sin, in order that (the  intention of God, as in Romans 11:32 ;  not the mere result , here or any where else. Beware of such an assertion as Burton’s, quoted also by Peile; “ ἵνα here implies, not the cause, but the consequence, as in many places.” ἵνα never implies any thing of the sort; nor does any one of the examples he gives bear him out)  the promise (i.e. the things promised the κληρονομία , cf. Galatians 3:16 ; Gal 3:18 ) (which is)  by (depends upon, is conditioned by)  faith of (which has for its object and its Giver is a matter altogether belonging to)  Jesus Christ (q. d. ἡ ἐπαγγ .  ἡ ἐκ π .0: but the article in such sentences is frequently omitted, especially where no distinction is intended between the subject and another of the same kind: cf. τῆς πίστεως ἐν χρ . Ἰησ . below, Galatians 3:26 , τοῖς κυρίοις κατὰ σάρκα , Ephesians 6:5 , &c.
	The words ἐκ πίστ . cannot well be taken with δοθῇ without harshness, especially as Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ intervenes, and τοῖς πιστεύουσιν is already expressed. Besides, in this case they would most naturally come first, ἵνα ἐκ πίστεως Ἰ . χρ . ἡ ἐπαγγ . δοθῇ τ . π .)  might be given (be a  free gift δοθῇ has the emphasis)  to them that believe ( δοθῇ having the emphasis, τοῖς πιστ . does no more than take up ἐκ πίστ . above; q. d. ‘to those who fulfil that condition’).