 1 .] The Apostle exclaims indignantly, moved by the fervour and truth of his rebuke of Peter, against the folly of the Galatians, for suffering themselves to be bewitched out of their former vivid apprehension of Christ’s work and Person.
	 ἀνόητοι must not, with Jer., be taken as an allusion to any supposed national stupidity of the Galatians (Wetst. on ch. Galatians 1:6 , cites from Themistius a very different description: οἱ ἄνδρες … ὀξεῖς κ . ἀγχίνοι κ . εὐμαθέστεροι τῶν ἄγαν Ἑλλήνων ): it merely springs out of the occasion: see ref. Luke.
	 ὑμᾶς has the emphasis ‘YOU,  to whom ,’ &c.
	 ἐβάσκανεν ] Not with Chr. al., ‘  envied ,’ in which sense the verb usually takes a dative: so Thom. Mag., βασκαίνω , οὐ μόνον ἀντὶ τοῦ φθονῶ , ὅπερ πρὸς δοτικὴν συντάσσεται , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀντὶ τοῦ μέμφομαι κ . διαβάλλω παρὰ τοῖς παλαιοῖς εὕρηται , κ . συντάσσεται πρὸς αἰτιατικήν (not always, cf. Sir 14:6 ); but, as E. V.  bewitched ,  fascinated : so Aristot. Probl. xx. 34, διὰ τί τὸ πήγανον βασκανίας φασὶ φάρμακον εἶναι ; ἢ διότι βασκαίνεσθαι δοκοῦσι λάβρως ἐσθίοντες ; … ἐπιλέγουσι γοῦν , ὅταν τῆς αὐτῆς τραπέζης ἰδίᾳ τι προσφέρωνται , μεταδιδόντες , “ ἵνα μὴ βασκάνῃς με .”
	 κατ  ʼ   ὀφθ  . ]  openly ,  before your eyes : so ἵνα σοι κατ ʼ ὀφθαλμοὺς λέγῃ , Aristoph. Ran. 625; cf. κατ ʼ ὄμμα , Eur. Androm. 1040, κρυπτὸς καταστάς , ἢ κατ ʼ ὄμμ ʼ ἐλθὼν μάχῃ ;
	 προεγράφη ]  was described before , as in reff. It has been variously explained, (1) ‘  depicted before you .’ So Œc., Thl. (Chrys.?), Erasm., Luth., Calv., Winer, Rückert, Jowett, &c. But προγράφειν cannot be shewn to have any such meaning; nor (see below) is it required (as Jow.) by the context. (2) ‘  palam scriptus est :’ so Estius, Elsner, Bengel, al. But this, although an allowable meaning ( τῆς δίκης προγεγραμμένης αὐτῷ , διὰ πένθος οἰκούρει , Plut. Camill., 11), would not suit ἐν ὑμῖν (see below). (3) ‘  proscriptus est .’ So Vulg., Ambr., Aug., Lyra. ( προὔγραφεν αὐτοὺς φυγάδας , Polyb. xxxii. 21. 12; οἱ προγεγραμμένοι , ib. 22. 1.) But this is quite irrelevant to the context. It is best therefore to keep to St. Paul’s own meaning of προγράφειν , and understand it to refer to the time when he preached Christ among them, which he represents as a previous description in writing of Christ, in their hearts and before their eyes. Jerome, Hermann, al., understand it as above, ‘  olim scriptus est ,’ interpreting it, however, of the prophecies of the O. T. But not to mention that no prophecy sets Him forth as ἐσταυρωμένος , the whole passage (cf. Gal 3:2-5 ) evidently refers to the time when the Apostle preached among them. (See more in De W. and Meyer, from whom the above is mainly taken.) (The  ἐν ὑμῖν of the rec. could hardly belong to ἐσταυρωμένος ; for if so, it would more naturally be ἐσταυρ . ἐν ὑμῖν , the emphasis, as it now stands, being on ἐν ὑμῖν : but it must belong to προεγράφη , as above, and as in 2 Corinthians 3:2 , ‘in animis vestris.’ So Mey. Among the various meanings proposed, ‘among you’ (E. V., &c., De W., Rück.), ‘on account of you’ (Koppe, but wrongly, see ch. Galatians 1:24 , note), Luther’s is the most remarkable: “jam non solum abjecistis gratiam Dei, non solum Christus frustra vobis mortuus est, sed turpissime in vobis crucifixus est. Ad eum modum loquitur et Epistola ad Ebr. vi. 6: denuo crucifigentes sibimetipsis filium Dei, &c.” This again is condemned by the context, and indeed by the aor. προεγράφη .)
	 ἐσταυρωμένος , as expressing the whole mystery of redemption by grace, and of freedom from legal obligation. ‘It has an echo of συνεσταύρωμαι in ch. Galatians 2:20 .’ Jowett.