 16 .] This verse is not, as commonly supposed, the minor proposition of the syllegism, applying to Abraham’s case the general truth enounced in Galatians 3:15 ; for had it been so, (1) we should certainly find ὑπὸ θεοῦ contrasted with the ἀνθρώπου before, and (2) the parenthesis οὐ λέγει … χριστός would be a mere irrelevant digression. This minor proposition does not follow till Galatians 3:17 . What is  now said, in a parenthetical and subsidiary manner, is this: The covenant was not merely nor principally made with Abraham, but with Abraham  and HIS SEED, and that seed referred, not to the Jewish people, but to CHRIST. The covenant then was not fulfilled, but awaiting its fulfilment, and He to whom it was made was yet to appear, when the law was given.
	 αἱ ἐπ  . ] because the promise was many times repeated: e.g. Genesis 12:7 ; Genesis 15:5 ; Genesis 15:18 ; Genesis 17:7-8 ; Genesis 22:18 .
	 κ  .   τῷ σπ  .   αὐ  . ] These words, on which, from what follows, the stress of the whole argument rests, are probably meant to be a formal quotation. If so, the promises quoted must be Genesis 13:15 ; Genesis 17:8 (Jowett supposes xxi. 12, but qu.?), where the words occur as here.
	 οὐ λέγει ] viz. He who gave the promises God.  ἐπὶ πολ  .,   ἐφ  ʼ   ἑνός ]  of many, of one , as E. V. Plato has very nearly this usage, βούλομαι δέ μοι μὴ ἐπὶ θεῶν (de diis) λέγεσθαι τὸ τοιοῦτον , Legg. p. 662 d. See also Rep. 524 e. Cf. Ellic.’s note.
	 τοῖς σπέρμασιν  …   τῷ σπέρματι ] The central point of the Apostle’s argument is this: The seed to whom the promises were made, was Christ. To confirm this position, see Genesis 22:17-18 , where the collective σπέρμα of Gal 3:17 is summed up in the individual σπέρμα of Galatians 3:18 , he alleges a philological distinction, recognized by the Rabbinical schools (see Wetst. and Schöttgen ad loc.). This has created considerable difficulty: and all sorts of attempts have been made to evade the argument, or to escape standing committed to the distinction. Jerome (ad loc.), curiously and characteristically, applies the κατὰ ἄνθρωπον λέγω to this distinction especially, and thinks that the Apostle used it as adapted to the calibre of those to whom he was writing: “Galatis, quos paulo ante stultos dixerat, factus est stultus.” The Roman-Catholic Windischmann, one of the ablest and most sensible of modern expositors, says, “Our recent masters of theology have taken up the objection, which is as old as Jerome, and forgetting that Paul knew Hebrew better than themselves, have severely blamed him for urging the singular σπέρματι here, and thus justifying the application to Christ, seeing that the word זֶרַע , which occurs here in the Hebrew text, has no plural (Wind. is not accurate here: the plur. זְרָעִים is found 1 Samuel 8:15 , in the sense of ‘grains of wheat’), and so could not be used. Yet they are good enough to assume, that Paul had no fraudulent intent, and only followed the arbitrary exegesis of the Jews of his time (Rückert). The argument of the Apostle does not depend on the grammatical form, by which Paul here only puts forth his meaning in Greek, but on this, that the Spirit of God in the promise to Abraham and the passage of Scripture relating that promise, has chosen a word which implies a collective unity, and that the promise was not given to Abraham  and his children . Against the prejudice of the carnal Jews, who held that the promise applied to the plurality of them, the individual descendants of the Patriarch, as such, the Apostle maintains the truth, that only the Unity, Christ, with those who are incorporated in Him, has part in the inheritance.” On these remarks I would observe, (1) that the Apostle’s argument is independent of his philology: (2) that his philological distinction must not be pressed to mean more than he himself intended by it: (3) that the  collective and individual meanings of σπέρμα are both undoubted, and must have been evident to the Apostle himself, from, what follows, Galatians 3:29 . We are now in a position to interpret the words  ὅς ἐστιν χριστός . Meyer says ‘ χριστός is the personal Christ Jesus, not, as has been held (after Aug.), Christ and His Church.’ This remark is true, and untrue. χρ . certainly does not mean ‘Christ  and His Church:’ but if it imports only the personal Christ Jesus, why is it not so expressed, χριστὸς Ἰησοῦς ? For the word does not here occur in passing, but is the predicate of a very definite and important proposition. The fact is, that we must place ourselves in St. Paul’s position with regard to the idea of Christ, before we can appreciate all he meant by this word here. Christians are, not by a figure, but really, the BODY OF CHRIST: Christ contains His people, and the mention even of the personal Christ would bring with it, in the Apostle’s mind, the inclusion of His believing people. This seed is, CHRIST: not merely in the narrower sense, the man Christ Jesus, but Christ the Seed, Christ the Second Adam, Christ the Head of the Body. And that this is so, is plain from Galatians 3:28-29 , which are the key to ὅς ἐστιν χριστός : where he says,  πάντες γὰρ ὑμεῖς ΕἿΣ ἐστε ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ (notice  Ἰησοῦ here carefully inserted, where the Person is indicated).  εἰ δὲ ὑμεῖς χριστοῦ  ,   ἄρα τοῦ Ἀβραὰμ ΣΠΕ  ʹ  ΡΜΑ ἘΣΤΕ  ʹ,   κατ  ʼ   ἐπαγγελίαν κληρονόμοι . So that while it is necessary for the form of the argument here, to express Him to whom the promises were made, and not the aggregate of his people, afterwards to be identified with Him (but not here in view), yet the Apostle has introduced His name in a form not circumscribing His Personality, but leaving room for the inclusion of His mystical Body.