 8 .]  But (transitional (see Ellicott’s note))  the Scripture (as we  say , Nature: meaning, the Author of the Scripture; see reff.)  foreseeing (Schöttgen, Hor. Hebr. i. 732, gives examples of ‘quid vidit Scriptura?’ and the like, as common sayings among the Jews)  that of faith (emphatic, ‘  and not of works ’)  God justifieth (present, not merely as Mey., De W., al., because the time foreseen was regarded as present, nor ‘respectu Pauli scribentis,’ as Bengel, but because it was God’s  one way of justification He never justified in any other way so that it is the normal present, q. d. ‘is a God that justifieth’)  the Gentiles (observe, there is no  stress here on τὰ ἔθνη , it is not ἐκ πίστεως καὶ τὰ ἔθνη δικαιοῖ ὁ θ .: so that, as is remarked above, no question is raised between the carnal and spiritual seed of Abraham, nor, as Bengel, ‘ δέ vim argumenti extendit etiam ad  gentes :’ the question is between those who were ἐκ πίστεως , and those who wanted to return to the ἔργα νόμου , whether Jews or Gentiles. So that in fact τὰ ἔθνη must be here taken in its widest sense, as in the Abrahamic promise soon to be quoted)  announced the good news beforehand (the word is found only in Philo, and in this sense: ἑσπέρα τε καὶ πρωΐα , ὧν ἡ μὲν προεναγγελίζεται μέλλοντα ἥλιον ἀνίσχειν , de Mundi Opif. § 9, vol. i. p. 7, and de mut. nom. § 29, p. 602, ὃς (viz. ὁ νεοττὸς ) … τοὺς ταρσοὺς διασείειν φιλεῖ , τὴν ἐλπίδα τοῦ πέτεσθαι δυνήσεσθαι προευαγγελιζόμενος )  to Abraham : ( ὅτι recitative)  In thee (not, ‘  in thy seed ,’ which is a point not here raised; but strictly  in thee , as followers of thy faith, it having first shewn the way to justification before God. That the words will bear that other reference, does not shew that it must be introduced here)  shall all the Gentiles (see above: not to be restricted with Meyer, al., to its narrower sense, but expressing, from Genesis 18:18 ; Genesis 22:18 , in a form suiting better the Apostle’s present argument, the πᾶσαι αἱ φυλαὶ τῆς γῆς of Gen 12:3 )  be blessed .