 23 .]  But ( δέ carries us on to a further account of the rationale and office of the law. “When the noun, to which the particle is attached, is preceded by a preposition, and perhaps the article as well, δέ may stand the third or fourth word in the sentence. So ἐν τοῖς πρῶτοι δὲ Ἀθηναῖοι , Thuc. i. 6: οὐχ ὑπὸ ἐραστοῦ δέ , Plato, Phædr. 227 d, &c.” Hartung, Partikell. i. 190)  before (this)  faith (not,  the faith , in the sense of  the objects of faith , but the faith just mentioned, viz. πίστις Ἰησοῦ χρ ., which did not exist until Christ)  came (was found, or was possible, in men: cf. ref., where however it is more entirely subjective),  we (properly, we Jewish believers but not here to be pressed, because he is speaking of the divine dealings with men generally the Law was for τὰ πάντα , the only revelation)  were kept in ward (not simply ‘  kept ’ as E. V., but as Chrys., ὥσπερ ἐν τειχίῳ τινί , though not as he proceeds, τῷ φόβῳ κατεχόμενοι for, as above, our objective state is here treated of: see Romans 7:6 . But we must not yet, with Chrys., al., introduce the παιδαγωγός , or understand ἐφρουρ . as conveying the idea of ‘  safely kept ’ ( οὐδὲν ἕτερον δηλοῦντός ἐστιν , ἢ τὴν ἐκ τῶν ἐντολῶν τοῦ νόμου γενομένην ἀσφάλειαν ): συγκλειόμενοι is quite against this, and the pædagogic figure does not enter till the next verse, springing out of the preparation implied in εἰς , joined to the fact of our sonship, see below. Our present verse answers to ch. Galatians 4:2 , where we find ἐπίτροποι and οἰκονόμοι , not the παιδαγωγός . See Jowett’s beautiful illustration),  shut up under the law, in order to ( εἰς of the preparatory  design , not merely of the  result , or the arrival of the time: and it may belong either to συγκλειόμ . (not to συγκεκλεισμένοι , if that be read, as that would betoken the act completed when the Law was given), or to the imperfect ἐφρουρούμεθα )  the faith (as in Gal 3:22 )  about to be revealed (on the order of the words see on ref. Rom. “As long as there was no such thing as faith in Christ, this faith was  not yet revealed , was as yet an element of life hidden in the counsel of God.” Meyer).