 19 24 .]  The use and nature of the Law .  What (ref.)  then (is)  the Law (‘ubi audimus Legem nihil valere ad conferendam justitiam, statim obrepunt variæ cogitationes: aut igitur esse inutilem, aut contrariam fœderi Dei, aut tale quippiam.’ Calv.)  ? For the sake of the transgressions [  of it ] (the words τῶν παραβάσεων χάριν have been variously understood. (1) Aug., Calv., Beza, Luth., al., explain it of the  detection of transgressions, as in Romans 7:0 . (2) Chrys., Œc., Thl., Jer., Erasm., Grot., Rück., Olsh., B.-Crus., De Wette, al., of their  repression : μὴ ἐξῇ Ἰουδαίοις ἀδεῶς ζῆν … ἀλλ ʼ ἀντὶ χαλινοῦ ὁ νόμος αὐτοῖς ἐπικείμενος ᾖ , παιδεύων , ῥυθμίζων , κωλύων παραβαίνειν . Chrys. (3) Luth., Est., Bengel, al., combine (1) and (2). But it is hardly possible that either of these should be the true explanation. For the Apostle is not now treating of the detection of sin, or of the repression of sin (which latter was besides  not the office of the Law, see Rom 5:20 ), but of the Law as a preparation for Christ, Galatians 3:23-24 ; and therefore it must be regarded in its propædeutic office, not in its detective or (?) repressive. Now this propædeutic office was, to  make sin into TRANSGRESSION, so that what was before not a transgression might now become one. The law then was added (to the promise, which had no such power), for the sake of (in order to bring about  as transgressions ) the transgressions (of it) which should be, and thus ( Gal 3:23 ) to shut us up under sin, viz. the transgression of the law. This is nearly Meyer’s view, except that he makes this the exclusive meaning of χάριν , which usage will not sustain, cf. 1 John 3:12 . Ellic.’s view is very close to mine, which he has mistaken)  it was superadded (“ προσετέθη does not contradict the assertion of Galatians 3:15 , οὐδεὶς … ἐπιδιατάσσεται . For the Law was not given as an ἐπιδιαθήκη , but came in as another institution, additional to that already existing.” Meyer)  until the seed shall have come (he places himself at the giving of the law and looks on into the future: hence the subjunctive, not the optative: and without ἄν , because the time is a certain and definite one),  to whom ( Gal 3:16 )  the promise has been (see above)  made (the vulgate renders ἐπήγγελται  promiserat , sc. Deus: and so Bengel prefers, from reff. active. But the passive suits Galatians 3:16 ( ἐῤῥέθησαν ) better, and is justified by reff. Macc. Bretschneider understands it  cui demandatum est , viz.  to put an end to the law : but this is against N. T. usage of ἐπαγγέλλω , and absurd, where ἐπαγγελίαι is so often used in the context. This Seed is of course Christ),  being enjoined (the aorist participle does not here denote previous occurrence, but is merely part of an aorist sentence: so Herod. i. 14, Γύγης δὲ τυραννεύσας ἀνέπεμψεν ἀναθήματα …: Diod. Sic. xi. 31, γενναίως ἀγωνισάμενος πολλοὺς ἀνεῖλε τῶν Ἑλλήνων . See Hermann on Viger, pp. 772 3. For διατάσσω , cf. note on Acts 7:53 , and Hesiod, Op. 274, τόνδε γὰρ ἀνθρώποισι νόμον διέταξε Κρονίων : it is not  promulgate , as Winer)  by means of (not,  under the attestation of , as Peile, nor  in the presence of , as Calov., al.)  angels (angels were, according to the Rabbinical view, the enactors and enjoiners of the Law: so Jos. Antt. xv. 5. 3, ἡμῶν τὰ κάλλιστα τῶν δογμάτων κ . τὰ ὁσιώτατα τῶν ἐν τοῖς νόμοις  δι  ʼ   ἀγγέλων παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ μαθόντων : see also the citations in Wetst.: Hebrews 2:2 ; and note on Colossians 2:15 . Of course no explaining away of ἄγγελοι into men (Moses, Aaron, &c.) as Chrys. (altern.: ἢ τοὺς ἱερέας ἀγγέλους λέγει , ἢ καὶ αὐτοὺς τοὺς ἀγγέλους ὑπηρετήσασθαί φησι τῇ νομοθεσίᾳ ), al., can be allowed. Observe, the angels are not the  givers of the Law, but its  ministers , and  instrumental enactors : the Law, with St. Paul, is always  God’s Law; see especially Rom 7:22 )  in the hand of a mediator (viz. MOSES, who came from God to the people with the tables of the law in his hands. Cf. his own words, Deuteronomy 5:5 , κἀγὼ εἱστήκειν  ἀναμέσον κυρίου κ  .   ὑμῶν ἐν τῷ καιρῷ ἐκείνῳ ἀναγγεῖλαι ὑμῖν τὰ ῥήματα κυρίου , ὅτι ἐφοβήθητε ἀπὸ προσώπου τοῦ πυρὸς κ . οὐκ ὰνέβητε εἰς τὸ ὄρος , λέγων …: Philo, vita Mos. iii. 19, vol. ii. p. 160, οἷα  μεσίτης κ . διαλλακτὴς οὐκ εὐθὺς ἀνεπήδησεν , ἀλλὰ πρότερον τὰς ὑπὲρ τοῦ ἔθνους ἱκεσίας κ . λιτὰς ἐποιεῖτο . Schöttgen gives numerous examples from the Rabbinical books, in which the name  Mediator is given to Moses. But most of the Fathers (not Thdrt.), Bede, Lyra, Calvin, Calov., al., understand  Christ to be meant: Schmieder and Schneckenburger,  the Angel of the Covenant , the Metatron. Neither of these interpretations however will hold against the above evidence).
	 Why does the Apostle add this last clause? I am inclined to think with Meyer that it is, not to disparage the law in comparison with the Gospel (as Luth., Elsn., Flatt, Rück., Jowett, &c. &c.) or with the promise (Estius, Schneckenb., De Wette), but to enhance the solemnity of the giving of the law as a preparation for Christ, in answer to the somewhat disparaging question τί οὖν ὁ νόμος ; If the δι ʼ ἀγγέλων had been here disparaging, as in Hebrews 2:2 , διὰ τοῦ κυρίου or the like must have been expressed, as there, on the other side. And ἐν χειρὶ μεσίτου is certainly no disparagement of the old covenant in comparison with the new, for this it has in common with the other. The fact is (see below on Gal 3:20 ), that no such comparison is in question here.