 11, 12 .] ‘contain a perfect syllogism, so that ὁ δίκ . ἐκ πίστ . ζήσεται is the major proposition, Gal 3:12 the minor, and ἐν νόμῳ οὐδ . δικ . παρὰ τ . θεῷ the consequence.’ Meyer. It is inserted to strengthen the inference of the former verse, by shewing that not even could a man keep the law, would he be justified the  condition of justification, as revealed in Scripture, being that it is  by faith .  But (= moreover)  that in (not merely the  elemental in, but the  conditional as well: ‘in and by:’ not ‘  through ’)  the law no man is justified (the  normal present:  is , in God’s order of things)  with God (not emphatic as Bengel, ‘quic-quid sit apud homines:’ this would require οὐδεὶς παρὰ τῷ θεῷ δικαιοῦται : but δικαιοῦται - παρὰ - τῷ - θεῷ is simply predicated of οὐδείς )  is evident, for (it is written, that)  the just by faith shall live (not ‘  the just shall live by his faith ,’ as Winer, De W., al. The order of the words would indeed suggest this rendering, seeing that ὁ ἐκ π . δ . ζ . would properly represent the other: but we must regard St. Paul’s logical use of the citation: and I think, with Meyer, that he has abstained from altering the order of the words as being well known. He is not seeking to shew  by what the righteous shall live, but the  ground itself of  that righteousness which shall  issue in life ; and the contrast is between ὁ δίκαιος ἐκ πίστεως and ὁ ποιήσας αὐτά . It is right to say that Ellic. (both edd.) prefers the other rendering, and supports it by the fact that the original Hebrew will not bear this one, and that St. Paul adopts the words of the LXX as they stand; and by the contrast between ζήσεται ἐκ πίστεως , and ζήσεται ἐν αὐτοῖς . Jowett doubts whether ζήσεται could be used absolutely: but see Hebrews 12:9 . I still however prefer rendering as above. The construction desiderated by Bp. Middleton to suit our rendering, ὁ δίκαιος ὁ ἐκ π ., would stultify the sentence, by bringing into view other δίκαιοι , who were not ἐκ πίστεως ):  but (logical, introducing the minor of the syllogism: see above)  the law (not ‘law, as such,’ Peile: no such consideration appears here, nor any where, except in so far as the law of Moses is treated of as possessing the qualities of law in general)  is not of (does not spring from nor belong to: ‘non agit fidei partes,’ Beng.)  faith: but (sondern) (its nature is such that)  he who has done them (viz. πάντα τὰ προστάγματά μου κ . π . τὰ κρίματά μου of Lev 18:5 )  shall live in (conditional element)  them (see Rom 10:5 ).