26. The woman was a Greek—that
	is, "a Gentile," as in the Margin.
a Syrophoelignician by
	nation—so called as inhabiting the Phoelignician tract of
	Syria. JUVENAL uses the
	same term, as was remarked by JUSTIN
	MARTYR and TERTULLIAN.
	Matthew (Matthew 15:22) calls her
	"a woman of Canaan"—a more intelligible description to
	his Jewish readers (compare Judges 1:30;
	Judges 1:32; Judges 1:33).
	 and she
	besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her
	daughter—"She cried unto Him, saying, Have mercy on me, O
	Lord, Son of David: my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil"
	(Matthew 15:22). Thus, though no
	Israelite herself, she salutes Him as Israel's promised Messiah. Here
	we must go to Matthew 15:23-25
	for some important links in the dialogue omitted by our Evangelist. 
	
	 Matthew 15:23-40.15.25- :: 
	 But
	he answered her not a word —The
	design of this was first, perhaps, to show that He was not sent
	to such as she. He had said expressly to the Twelve, "Go not
	into the way of the Gentiles" (Matthew 15:23-40.15.25- :); and being now among them Himself, He would, for
	consistency's sake, let it be seen that He had not gone thither for
	missionary
	purposes. Therefore He not only kept silence, but had actually left
	the house, and—as will presently appear—was proceeding on His way
	back, when this woman accosted Him. But another reason for keeping
	silence plainly was to try and whet her faith, patience, and
	perseverance. And it had the desired effect: "She cried
	after them," which shows that He
	was already on His way from the place. 
	 And
	His disciples came and besought Him, saying, Send her away; for
she crieth after us —They thought her
	troublesome with her importunate cries, just as they did the people
	who brought young children to be blessed of Him, and they ask their
	Lord to "send her away," that is, to grant her request and
	be rid of her; for we gather from His reply that they meant to
	solicit favor for her, though not for her sake so much as their own. 
	 Matthew 15:23-40.15.25- :: 
	 But
	He answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of
the house of Israel —a speech evidently
	intended for the disciples themselves, to satisfy them that, though
	the grace He was about to show to this Gentile believer was beyond
	His strict commission, He had not gone spontaneously to
	dispense it. Yet did even this speech open a gleam of hope, could she
	have discerned it. For thus might she have spoken: "I am not
	SENT, did He say? Truth,
	Lord, Thou comest not hither in quest of us, but I come in
	quest of Thee; and must I go empty away? So did not the woman
	of Samaria, whom when Thou foundest her on Thy way to Galilee, Thou
	sentest away to make many rich!" But this our poor
	Syrophoelignician could not attain to. What, then, can she answer to
	such a speech? Nothing. She has reached her lowest depth, her darkest
	moment: she will just utter her last cry: 
	 Matthew 15:23-40.15.25- :: 
	Then
	came she and worshipped Him, saying, Lord, help me! —This
	appeal, so artless, wrung from the depths of a believing heart, and
	reminding us of the publican's "God be merciful to me a sinner,"
	moved the Redeemer at last to break silence—but in what style? Here
	we return to our own Evangelist. 
	