Throne [θρονου] . A seat or chair. In Homer, an armchair with high back and footstool. Cushions were laid upon the seat, and over both seat and back carpets were spread. A royal throne. Used of the oracular seat of the priestess of Apollo. Apollo, in the "Eumenides" of Aeschylus, says : "Never, when I sat in the diviner's seat (mantikoisin ejn qronoiv) did I speak aught else than Zeus the father of the Olympians bade me" (616 - 618). Plato uses it of a teacher 's seat. "I saw Hippias the Elean sitting in the opposite portico in a chair [εν θρονω] . Others were seated round him on benches [επι βαθρων] ," questioning him, "and he ex cathedre?ejn qronw kaqhmenov, lit., sitting in the chair) was determining their several questions to them, and discoursing of them" (" Protagoras, " 315). Also used of a judge 's bench, and a bishop 's seat. Seats [θρονοι] . Rev.., rightly, thrones. The word is the same as the last. I saw. Omit. Elders [πρεσβυτερους] . See on Acts 14:23. The twenty - four elders are usually taken to represent the one Church of Christ, as at once the Church of the old and of the new Covenant, figured by the twelve patriarchs and the twelve apostles. "Then saw I people, as behind their leaders, Coming behind them, garmented in white, And such a whiteness never was on earth Under so fair a heaven as I describe The four and twenty - elders, two by two, Came on incoronate with flower - de - luce." Dante, "Purgatorio," 29, 64 - 84. Clothed [περιβεβλημενους] . Rev., arrayed. Better, as indicating a more solemn investiture. See on chapter Revelation 3:5. They had. Omit. Crowns [στεφανους] . See on 1 Peter 5:4; James 1:12. Stefanov with the epithet golden is found only in Revelation. Compare chapter Revelation 9:7; Revelation 14:14. The natural inference from this epithet and from the fact that the symbolism of Apoc. is Hebrew, and that the Jews had the greatest detestation of the Greek games, would be that stefanov is here used of the royal crown, especially since the Church is here represented as triumphant - a kingdom and priests. On the other hand, in the three passages of Revelation where John evidently refers to the kingly crown, he uses diadhma (chapter Revelation 12:3; Revelation 13:1; compare Revelation 17:9, Revelation 17:10; Revelation 19:12). Trench (" Synonyms of the New Testament ") claims that the crown in this passage is the crown, not of kinghood, but of glory and immortality. The golden crown [στεφανος] of the Son of Man (chapter Revelation 14:14) is the conqueror's crown. It must be frankly admitted, however, that the somewhat doubtful meaning here, and such passages of the Septuagint as 2 Samuel 12:30; 1 Chronicles 20:2; Psalms 20:3; Ezekiel 21:26; Zechariah 6:11, Zechariah 6:14, give some warrant for the remark of Professor Thayer (" New Testament Lexicon ") that it is doubtful whether the distinction between stefanov and diadhma (the victor's wreath and the kingly crown) was strictly observed in Hellenistic Greek. The crown of thorns [στεφανος] placed on our Lord 's head, was indeed woven, but it was the caricature of a royal crown.