 25 .] I cannot refrain from citing Chrys.’s very beautiful remarks on this next passage, εἶδες μέτρον ὑπακοῆς ; ἄκουσον καὶ μέτρον ἀγάπης . βούλει σοι τὴν γυναῖκα ὑπακούειν , ὡς τῷ χριστῷ τὴν ἐκκλησίαν ; προνόει καὶ αὐτὸς αὐτῆς , ὡς ὁ χριστὸς τῆς ἐκκλησίας · κἂν τὴν ψυχὴν ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς δοῦναι δέῃ , κἂν κατακοπῆναι μυριάκις , κἂν ὁτιοῦν ὑπομεῖναι καὶ παθεῖν , μὴ παραιτήσῃ · κἂν ταῦτα πάθῃς , οὐδὲν οὐδέπω πεποίηκας , οἷον ὁ χριστός · σὺ μὲν γὰρ ἤδη συναφθεὶς ταῦτα ποιεῖς , ἐκεῖνος δὲ ὑπὲρ ἀποστρεφομένης αὐτὸν καὶ μισούσης · ὥσπερ οὖν αὐτὸς τὴν ἀποστρεφομένην αὐτὸν καὶ μισοῦσαν καὶ διαπτύουσαν καὶ θρυπτομένην , περὶ τοὺς πόδας αὐτοῦ τῇ πολλῇ ἤγαγε τῇ κηδεμονίᾳ , οὐκ ἀπειλαῖς , οὐδὲ ὕβρεσιν , οὐδὲ φόβῳ , οὐδὲ ἑτέρῳ τινὶ τοιούτῳ · οὕτω καὶ σὺ πρὸς τὴν γυναῖκα ἔχε τὴν σήν · κἂν ὑπερορῶσαν , κἂν θρυπτομένην , κἂν καταφρονοῦσαν ἴδῃς , δυνήσῃ αὐτὴν ὑπὸ τοὺς πόδας ἀγαγεῖν τοὺς σοὺς τῇ πολλῇ περὶ αὐτὴν προνοίᾳ , τῇ ἀγάπῃ , τῇ φιλίᾳ . οὐδὲν γὰρ τούτων τυραννικώτερον τῶν δεσμῶν , καὶ μάλιστα ἀνδρὶ κ . γυναικί . οἰκέτην μὲν γὰρ φόβῳ τις ἂν καταδῆσαι δυνήσεται , μᾶλλον δὲ οὐδὲ ἐκεῖνον · ταχέως γὰρ ἀποπηδήσας οἰχήσεται · τὴν δὲ τοῦ βίου κοινωνόν , τὴν παίδων μητέρα , τὴν πάσης εὐφροσύνης ὑπόθεσιν , οὐ φόβῳ καὶ ἀπειλαῖς δεῖ καταδεσμεῖν , ἀλλ ʼ ἀγάπῃ καὶ διαθέσει .
	 Husbands, love your wives, as also (see above)  Christ loved the church and gave Himself for her (better than ‘it;’ the comparison is thus brought out as in the original. κἂν πάθῃς τι ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς , μὴ ὀνειδίσῃς · οὐδὲ γὰρ ὁ χρ . τοῦτο ἐποίησε . Chr.)  that (intermediate purpose, as regarded  her ; see below, Eph 5:27  ) He might sanctify her, having purified her (  ἁγιάση and  καθαρίσας might be contemporaneous, and indeed this is the more common usage of past participles with past finite verbs in the N. T. (see ch. Eph 1:9 note). But here, inasmuch as the sanctifying is clearly a gradual process, carried on till the spotless presentation ( Eph 5:27 ), and the washing cannot be separated from the introductory rite of baptism, it is best to take the  καθαρίσας as antecedent to the  ἁγιάσῃ )  by the laver (not ‘  washing ,’ as E. V.: a meaning the word never has)  of the water (of which we all know: viz. the  baptismal water , see ref. Tit. We can hardly set aside the reference to the purifying bath of the bride previous to marriage: see below on Ephesians 5:27 , and cf. Rev 21:2 )  in the word (  what word? ἐν ὀνόματι πατρὸς κ . υἱοῦ κ . ἁγίου πνεύματος , says Chrys. alluding to the formula in Baptism: and so many fathers: the ‘  mandatum divinum ’ on which Baptism rests (Storr, Peile): the ‘  invocatio divini nominis ’ which gives Baptism its efficacy (Erasm.): the preached  word of faith ( Rom 10:8 ) of which confession is made in baptism, and which carries the real cleansing (John 15:3 ; Joh 17:17 ) and regenerating power ( 1Pe 1:23 ; 1 Peter 3:21 (?)) so Aug. Tract. 80 in Joan. 3, vol. iii. p. 1840, Migne; where those memorable words occur, “Detrahe verbum, et quid est aqua nisi aqua? Accedit verbum ad elementum, et fit sacramentum, etiam ipsum tanquam visibile verbum.” And this certainly seems the sense most analogous to St. Paul’s usage, in which ῥῆμα is confined to the  divine word. But we must not join  ἐν ῥήματι with τῷ λουτρῷ nor with τοῦ ὕδατος ; for the former would require  τῷ ἐν ῥήματι , the latter,  τοῦ ἐν ῥήματι , there being no such close connexion as to justify the omission of the article; indeed the specification being here absolutely required, after so common a term as τὸ λοῦτρον τοῦ ὕδατος . So that we are referred back to the verb (  ἁγ  . ) and participle (  καθαρίσας ) preceding. The former connexion is not probable, on account of the participle intervening: see also below. The latter is on all accounts the most likely. Thus,  the word , preached and received, is the conditional element of purification, the real water of spiritual baptism; that wherein and whereby alone the efficacy of baptism is conveyed that wherein and whereby we are regenerated, the process of sanctification being subsequent and gradual),