 30 .]  For (again a link is omitted; ‘the church, which stands in the relation of marriage to Him: for, &c.’)  members we are of His Body [, (  being )  of His flesh, and of His bones (see Genesis 2:23 . As the woman owed her natural being to the man, her source and head, so we owe our entire spiritual being to Christ, our source and head: and as the woman was one flesh with the man in this natural relation, so we in our entire spiritual relation, body, soul, and Spirit, are one with Christ, God manifested in our humanity, parts and members of His glorified Body. Bengel well remarks, that we are not, as in Gen., l. c. ὀστοῦν ἐκ τῶν ὀστέων αὐτοῦ , καὶ σὰρξ ἐκ τῆς σαρκὸς αὐτ .: ‘non ossa et caro nostra, sed  nos spiritualiter propagamur ex humanitate Christi, carnem et ossa habente’)]:  wherefore (the allusion, or rather free citation, is still carried on: cf. Genesis 2:24 : i.e. because we are members of Him in the sense just insisted on. This whole verse is said (see on Eph 5:32 below) not of human marriages, but of Christ and the church. He is the  ἄνθρωπος in the Apostle’s view here, the Church is the  γυνή . But for all this, I would not understand the words, as Meyer, in a prophetical sense of the future coming of Christ: the omission of the article before  ἄνθρωπος sufficiently retains the general aphorismatic sense: but would regard the saying as applied to that, past, present, and future, which constitutes Christ’s Union to His Bride the Church: His leaving the Father’s bosom, which is  past His gradual preparation of the union, which is  present : His full consummation of it, which is  future . This seems to me to be necessary, because we are as truly now  εἰς σάρκα μίαν with Him, as we shall be, when heaven and earth shall ring with the joy of the nuptials; and hence the exclusive future sense is inapplicable. In this allegorical sense (see below), Chrys., Jer., and most of the ancients: Beng., Grot., Mey. (as above), al., interpret: and Eadie would have done well to study more deeply the spirit of the context before he characterized it as ‘strange romance,’ ‘wild and visionary,’ and said, ‘there is no hint that the Apostle intends to allegorize.’ That allegory, on the contrary, is the  key to the whole )  shall a man leave father and mother and shall be closely joined to his wife, and they two shall become (see Matthew 19:5 , note)  one flesh (‘non solum uti antea, respectu ortus: sed respectu novæ conjunctionis.’ Beng.).