 28 .]  Thus (two ways of understanding this  οὕτως are open to us: 1) as referring back to Christ’s love for the church, ‘Thus,’ ‘in like manner,’ &c., as (being) ‘their own bodies:’ and 2) as referring forward to the ὡς below, as very frequently (though Eadie calls it contrary to grammatical law) in St. Paul (cf. 1 Corinthians 3:15 ; 1Co 4:1 ; 1 Corinthians 9:26 , al., and Eph 5:33 below, where Eadie himself renders, ‘  so … as himself ’), ‘  Thus ,’ ‘  so ,’ &c., ‘  as (they love)  their own bodies .’ After weighing maturely what has been said on one side and the other, I cannot but decide for the  latter , as most in accordance with the usage of St. Paul and with Ephesians 5:33 : also as more simple. The sense (against Ellic.) remains substantially the same, and answers much better to the comment furnished by the succeeding clauses: husbands ought to love their own wives as they love their own bodies (= themselves: for their wives are in fact part of their own bodies, Eph 5:31 ): this being illustrated by and referred to the great mystery of Christ and His church, in which the same love, and the same incorporation, has place)  ought the husbands also (as well as Christ in the archetypal example just given) to  love their own (emphatic: see above on Eph 5:22 )  wives, as (with the same affection as)  their own bodies. He that loveth his own (see above)  wife, loveth himself (is but complying with that universal law of nature by which we all love ourselves. The best words to supply before the following γάρ will be, “And this we all do”):  for (see above)  no man ever hated his own flesh (= ἑαυτόν , but put in this form to prepare for εἰς σάρκα μίαν in the Scripture proof below. Wetst. quotes from Seneca, Ep. 14, ‘fateor, insitam nobis esse corporis nostri caritatem’),  but nourishes it up (through all its stages, to maturity: so Aristoph. Ran. 1189, of Œdipus, ἵνα μὴ ʼ κτραφεὶς γένοιτο τοῦ πατρὸς φονεύς : and ib. 1427, οὐ χρὴ λέοντος σκύμνον ἐν πόλει τρέφειν (at all): ἢν δ ʼ ἐκτραφῇ τις (have been brought up), τοῖς τρόποις ὑπηρετεῖν )  and cherishes (ref. 1 Thess. It is certainly not necessary to confine the meaning to ‘  warming ,’ as Beng. (‘  id spectat amictum ’), Mey., al.: for it is very forced to apply the feeding and clothing to the other member of the comparison (as Grot.: ‘nutrit eam verbo et spiritu, vestit eam virtutibus’), as must then be done (against Mey.))  it, as also (does)  Christ (nourish and cherish)  the church.