 1, 2. ] These verses are best taken as transitional, the inference from the exhortation which has immediately preceded, and introduction to the dehortatory passage which follows. Certainly Stier seems right in viewing the περιπατεῖτε as resuming περιπατῆσαι ch. Ephesians 4:1 , and indicating a beginning, rather than a close, of a paragraph.  Be ye (  γίνεσθε , see on last verse)  therefore (seeing that God forgave you in Christ, see next verse)  imitators of God (viz. in walking in love, see below),  as children beloved (see next verse: and 1 John 4:19 , ἡμεῖς ἀγαπῶμεν , ὅτι αὐτὸς πρῶτος ἠγάπησεν ἡμᾶς )  and (shew it by this, that ye)  walk in love, as Christ also (this comes even nearer: from the love of the Father who gave His Son, to that of the Son, the Personal manifestation of that love in our humanity)  loved (not, ‘  hath loved ’ as E. V.)  you (the ὑμᾶς … ὑμῶν is more a personal appeal: the ἡμᾶς … ἡμῶν of the rec. is a general one, deduced from the universal relation of us all to Christ),  and gave up Himself (absol.: not to be joined with τῷ θεῷ )  for you (see note on Galatians 3:13 : ‘  on your behalf :’ in fact, but not necessarily here implied, ‘  in your stead ’)  an offering and a sacrifice (beware of  προσφ  .   κ  .   θυσ  . = θυσίαν προσφερομένην (Conyb.): it is our duty, in rendering, to preserve the terms coupled, even though we may not be able precisely to say wherein they differ. The ordinary distinction, that  προσφορά is an unbloody offering,  θυσία a slain victim, cannot be maintained, see Hebrews 10:5 ; Hebrews 10:18 ; Hebrews 11:4 . I believe the nearest approach to the truth will be made by regarding  προσφ  . as the more general word, including all kinds of offering,  θυσία as the more special one, usually involving the death of a victim. The great prominent idea here is the  one sacrifice, which the Son of God made of Himself in his redeeming Love, in our nature bringing it, in Himself, near to God offering Himself as our representative Head: whether in perfect righteousness of life, or in sacrifice, properly so called, at his Death)  to God (to be joined, as a (dat. commodi, with  πρ  .   κ  .   θυσ  . : not with παρέδωκεν (as De W. and Mey.), from which it is too far removed: still less (as Stier, who would apply the clause τῷ θ … εὐωδίας , to  us ) with what follows)  for an odour of sweet smell (the question so much discussed, whether these words can apply to a sin-offering strictly so called, is an irrelevant one here. It is not [see above] the death of Christ which is treated of, but the whole process of His redeeming Love. His death lies in the background as one, and the chief, of the acknowledged facts of that process: but it does not give the character to what is here predicated of Him. The allusion primarily is to ref. Gen., where after Noah had brought to God a sacrifice of every clean beast and bird, ὠσφράνθη κύριος ὁ θεὸς ὀσμὴν εὐωδίας , and the promise followed, that He would no more destroy the earth for man’s sake).