 18 .] The connexion seems to be: after the general antithesis in Ephesians 5:17 ,  μὴ ἄφρονες  ,   ἀλλὰ συνίετε κ . τ . λ ., he proceeds to give one prominent instance, in the same antithetical shape.  And (  καί is subordinate, introducing a particular after a general: so Herod. i. 73, τῶνδε εἵνεκα καὶ γῆς ἱμέρῳ … see Hartung i. 145)  be not intoxicated with wine, in which practice (not, ἐν οἴνῳ , but ἐν τῷ μεθύσκεσθαι οἴνῳ the crime is not in  God’s gift , but in the  abuse of it: and the very arrangement of the sentence, besides the spirit of it, implies the lawful use of wine see 1Ti 5:23 )  is profligacy (  ἀσωτία , not from  ἀ  σώζεσθαι , as Clem. Alex. Pædag. ii. 1, p. 167 P. ( ἀσώτους αὐτοὺς οἱ καλέσαντες πρῶτον εὖ μοι δοκοῦσιν αἰνίττεσθαι τὸ τέλος αὐτῶν , ἀσώστους αὐτοὺς κατὰ ἔκθλιψιν τοῦ σ στοιχείου νενοηκότες ), al., but from  ἀ  σώζειν :  ἀσωτία ἐστὶν ὑπερβολὴ περὶ χρήματα , Aristot. Eth. Nic. iv. 1. 3. But as spendthrifts are almost of necessity self-indulgent and reckless, the word comes to have the meaning of ‘  dissoluteness ,’ ‘  debauchery ,’ ‘  profligacy ,’ see Eth. Nic. iv. 1. 36, Tittmann, p. 152, and Trench, N. T. Syn. § 16. Theodotion renders Isa 28:7 by ἐν τῇ μέθῃ ἠσωτεύθησαν ὑπερόγκως ):  but (contrast, see above)  be filled (antith. to  μεθύσκεσθε οἴνῳ ; not to  μεθύσκεσθε alone, so that ἐν πνεύματι should be opposed to οἴνῳ : see below)  with (  ἐν , as ch. Ephesians 1:23 , but also ‘  in :’ let this be the region in, and the ingredient with which you are filled)  the Spirit (the ambiguity in the preposition is owing to the peculiar meaning of  πνεῦμα as applied to the Christian: viz.  his own spirit, dwelt in and informed by the Holy Spirit of God , see note on ch. Ephesians 4:23 . If this is so, if you are full of the Spirit, full in Spirit, there will be a joy indeed, but not that of ἀσωτία : one which will find its expression not in drunken songs, but in Christian hymns, and continual thankfulness),  speaking to one another (ch. Ephesians 4:32 ; see also the [9] , Colossians 3:16 . It is perhaps too much to find in this the practice of antiphonal chanting: but it is interesting to remember that in Pliny’s letter the Christians are described as ‘soliti stato die ante lucem convenire,  carmenque Christo quasi Deo  dicere secum invicem :’ and that Nicephorus, Hist. xiii. 8 (cited by Eadie), says τὴν τῶν ἀντιφώνων συνήθειαν ἄνωθεν ἀποστόλων ἡ ἐκκλησία παρέλαβε . Conyb. places a full stop at ἑαυτοῖς : but surely both style and sense are thus marred)  in (this must be the rendering, whether the preposition is inserted or not)  psalms (not to be confined, as Olsh. and Stier, to O. T. hymns; see 1 Corinthians 14:26 ; James 5:13 . The word properly signified those sacred songs which were performed with musical accompaniment (so Basil, Hom. in Psalms 29:1 , vol. i. p. 124, ὁ  ψαλμὸς λόγος ἐστὶ μουσικός , ὅταν εὐρύθμως κατὰ τοὺς ἁρμονικοὺς λόγους πρὸς τὸ ὄργανον κρούηται and Greg. Nyss. in Psal. lib. ii. 3, vol. i. p. 493, Migne,  ψαλμός ἐστιν ἡ διὰ τοῦ ὀργάνου τοῦ μουσικοῦ μελῳδία , as  ὕμνοι without it: but the two must evidently here not be confined strictly to their proper meaning)  and hymns (see above)  and [  spiritual ]  songs ( ᾠδή being the general name for all lyrical poetry, and applying especially to such effusions as persons used in the state of drunkenness, the Christian’s ᾠδή is to be spiritual (Chr. opposes αἱ σατανικαὶ ᾠδαί ), inspired by that fulness of the Spirit which is in him),  singing and playing (as well as λαλοῦντες , not explanatory of it:  ᾄδοντες and  ψάλλοντες corresponding to  ὕμνοις and  ψαλμοῖς above)  in your hearts (Harl. remarks that  ἐν καρδίᾳ cannot, being joined with ὑμῶν , represent the abstract ‘  heartily ,’ as Chr., Thdrt., Pelag., &c. but must be rendered as Bullinger, ‘canentes intus in animis et cordibus vestris’)  to the Lord (i.e. Christ cf. Pliny’s letter above),  giving thanks (another additional, not explanatory, clause)  always for all things (see Philippians 4:6 : not only for blessings, but for every dispensation of God: Ellic. quotes from Thl., οὐχ ὑπὲρ τῶν ἀγαθῶν μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ τῶν λυπηρῶν , κ . ὧν ἴσμεν , κ . ὧν οὐκ ἴσμεν · καὶ γὰρ διὰ πάντων εὐεργετούμεθα κἂν ἀγνοῶμεν )  in the name (the element in which the  εὐχαριστοῦντες must take place. “The name of the Lord is there, where He is named.  How He is named, depends on the particular circumstances: it is one thing to be reproached ( 1Pe 4:14 ), another to be saved ( Act 4:12 ), another to be baptized ( Act 10:48 ), another to command ( 2Th 3:6 ), another to pray ( Joh 14:13 ), another to give thanks (cf. Col 3:17 ) in the name of the Lord.… The Apostle says, that all the Christian would do, he must do  in the name of Christ ( Col 3:17 ).” Harl.: the rest of the note is well worth consulting)  of our Lord Jesus Christ to God and the Father (see on ch. Eph 1:3 ),  being subject to one another (a fourth additional, not subordinate clause. λαλοῦντες , ᾄδοντες κ . ψάλλοντες , εὐχαριστοῦντες , ὑποτασσόμενοι ἀλλήλοις : and then out of this last general injunction are unfolded all the  particular applications to the relations of life , Eph 5:22 ch. Ephesians 6:9 . It is not so easy to assign precisely its connexion with those which have preceded. It is hardly enough to say that as the first three name three special duties in regard to God, so this last a comprehensive moral duty in regard to man (Ellic.): for the question of the  connexion is still unanswered. I would rather regard it (as I see Eadie also does), as a thought suggested by the μὴ μεθ . κ . τ . λ . with which the sentence began that as we are otherwise to be filled, otherwise to sing and rejoice, so also we are otherwise to behave not blustering nor letting our voices rise in selfish vaunting, as such men do, but subject to one another, &c.)  in the fear of Christ (‘rara phrasis,’ Beng.: of Him, whose members we all are, so that any displacement in the Body is a forgetfulness of the reverence due to Him).
	 [9] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .