 5 .]  Appeal to their own knowledge that such practices exclude from the kingdom of God : see below.  For this ye know (indicative, not imperative: this to my mind is decided 1) by the context, in which an appeal to their own consciousness of the fact is far more natural than a communication of the fact to them: 2) by the position of the words, which in the case of an imperative would more naturally be ἴστε γὰρ τοῦτο γινώσκοντες : 3) by the use of the construction  ἴστε γινώσκοντες , which almost necessitates a matter of fact underlying γινώσκοντες . ἴστε γιν . is not an example of the γινώσκων γνώσῃ ( Gen 15:13 al.) of Hebrew usage, the two verbs being different)  being aware that every fornicator or ( ἤ now, not καί , for individualization of each)  unclean man, or covetous man, which is (i.e. ‘that is to say,’ ‘quod;’ meaning,  the word πλεονέκτης . This reading necessarily confines the reference to  that one word )  an idolater (cf. Colossians 3:5 , which shews that even ὅς ἐστιν would apply to the πλεονέκτης only, not, as Stier, al., to the  three : see Job 31:24 ; Psalms 52:7 ; Matthew 6:24 . Mey. remarks well, that it was very natural for St. Paul, whose forsaking of all things ( 2Co 6:10 ; 2Co 11:27 ) so strongly contrasted with selfish greediness, to mark with the deepest reprobation the sin of πλεονεξία ),  hath not inheritance (the  present implying more the fixedness of the exclusion, grounded on the eternal verities of that Kingdom, than mere future certainty: see 1Co 15:25 )  in the Kingdom of Christ and God (not ‘  and of God ’ (  κ  .   τοῦ θ  . ) as E. V. No  distinction is to be made,  χριστοῦ καὶ θεοῦ being in the closest union. Nor is any specification needed that the Kingdom of Christ is also the Kingdom of God, as would be made with the second article. This follows as matter of course: and thus the words bear no. legitimate rendering, except on the substratum of our Lord’s Divinity. But on the other hand, we cannot safely say here, that the same Person is intended by χριστοῦ κ . θεοῦ , merely on account of the omission of the article. For 1) any introduction of such a predication regarding Christ would here be manifestly out of place, not belonging to the context: 2) θεός is so frequently and unaccountably anarthrous, that it is not safe to ground any such inference from its use here).