 13 .]  but (opposition to τὰ κρυφῆ γιν .)  all things (not only, all the κρυφῆ γινόμενα , as Ellic. after Jer. al.: the Apostle is treating of the  general detecting power of light , as is evident by the resumption of the πᾶν in the next clause)  being reproved, are made manifest by the light: for every thing which is made manifest is light (the meaning being, ‘the light of your Christian life, which will be by your reproof shed upon these deeds of darkness, will bring them out of the category of darkness into light’ ( ἐπειδὰν φανερωθῇ , γίνεται φῶς , Chr.). They themselves were thus once darkness,’ but having been ‘reproved’ by God’s Spirit, had become ‘light in the Lord.’ There is in reality no difficulty, nor any occasion for a long note here. The only matters to be insisted on are, 1)  ὑπὸ τοῦ φωτός belongs to  φανεροῦται , not to  ἐλεγχόμενα : for it is not the fact of φανεροῦται that he is insisting on, but the fact that if they reproved the works of darkness, these would become  no longer works of darkness , but would be ὑπὸ τοῦ φωτὸς φανερούμενα . And 2)  φανερούμενον is  passive , not middle, in which sense it is never used in N. T.; ‘every thing which is made manifest, is no longer darkness, but light: and thus you will be, not compromised to these works of darkness, but making an inroad upon the territory of darkness with the ὅπλα τοῦ φωτός .’ And thus the context leads on easily and naturally to the next verse. The objection to this (Eadie) that ‘light does not always exercise this  transforming influence, for the devil and all the wicked are themselves condemned by the light, without becoming themselves light,’ is null, being founded on misapprehension of the φῶς ἐστιν . Objectively taken, it is universally true:  every thing shone upon IS LIGHT. Whether this tend to condemnation or otherwise, depends just on whether the transforming influence takes place. The key-text to this is John 3:20 , πᾶς γὰρ ὁ φαῦλα πράσσων μισεῖ τὸ φῶς , κ . οὐκ ἔρχεται πρὸς τὸ φῶς , ἵνα μὴ ἐλεγχθῇ τὰ ἔργα αὐτοῦ , His works being thus brought into the light, made light, and he being thus put to shame. Notice also φανερωθῇ in the next verse, which is the desire of him who ποιεῖ τὴν ἀλήθειαν . The E. V. is doubly wrong 1) in ‘  all things that are reproved ’ ( π .  τὰ ἐλεγχόμενα ): 2) in ‘  whatsoever doth make manifest is light ’ ( πᾶν τὸ φανεροῦν ): besides that such a proposition has absolutely no meaning in the context. The meaning is discussed at length in Harl., Eadie, who however fall into the error of rendering  φανερούμενον  active (not middle), Stier, Ellicott, and best of all, Meyer):