 14 .]  wherefore (this being so seeing that every thing that is made manifest becomes light, is shone upon by the detecting light of Christ, objectively, it only remains that the man should be shone upon  inwardly by the same Christ revealed in his awakened heart. We have then in Scripture an exhortation to that effect)  He (viz. God, in the Scripture: see ch. Eph 4:8 note: all other supplies, such as ‘  the Spirit in the Christian ’ (Stier), ‘  the Christian speaking to the Heathen ’ (Flatt), ‘  one may say ’ (Bornemann) &c. are mere lame helps out of the difficulty: as are all ideas of St. Paul having quoted  a Christian hymn (some in Thdrt.),  an apocryphal writing (some in Jer., Epiph., al.),  a baptismal formula (Michaelis),  one of our Lord’s unrecorded sayings (Rhenferd), or that he means, ‘  thus saith the Lord ’ (some in Jer. al.), or alludes to the  general tenor of Scripture (Wesley), or  does not quote at all (Barnes), &c. &c.)  saith, Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall shine upon thee (  where is this citation to be found? In the first place, by the introduction of  ὁ χριστός , it is manifestly a  paraphrase, not an exact citation . The Apostle cites, and had a perfect right to cite, the language of prophecy in the light of the fulfilment of prophecy: and that he is here doing so, the bare word ‘  Christ ’ shews us beyond dispute. I insist on this, that it may be plainly shewn to be no shift in a difficulty, no hypothesis among hypotheses, but the  necessary inference from the form of the citation. This being so, of what passage of the O. T. is this a paraphrase? I answer, of Isaiah 60:1-2 . There, the church is set forth as being in a state of darkness and of death (cf. Isa 59:10 ), and is exhorted to awake, and become light, for that her light is come, and the glory of Jehovah has arisen upon her. Where need we go further for that of which we are in search? It is not true (as Stier), that there is ‘  no allusion to sleep or death ’ in the prophet: nor is it true again, that ἐπὶ σὲ φανήσεται κύριος κ . ἡ δόξα αὐτοῦ ἐπὶ σὲ ὀφθήσεται is not represented by  ἐπιφαύσει σοι ὁ χριστός . The fact is, that Stier has altogether mistaken the context, in saying, “The Apostle quotes here, not to justify the exhortation ‘convict, that they may become light;’ but to exhort ‘Become light, that ye may be able to convict (shine):’ ” the refutation of which see above, on Eph 5:13 ).