 8 .]  For (your state (present, see above) is a totally different one from theirs  excluding any such participation)  ye WERE (emphatic, see ref.)  once (no μέν . “The rule is simple: if the first clause is intended to stand in connexion with and prepare the reader for the opposition to the second, μέν is inserted: if not, not: see the excellent remarks of Klotz, Devar. ii. p. 356 sq.: Fritz., Romans 10:19 , vol. ii. p. 423.” Ellic.)  darkness (stronger than ἐν σκότει , Rom 2:19 ; 1 Thessalonians 5:4 : they were  darkness itself see on φῶς below),  but now (the ἐστέ is not expressed perhaps, as Stier suggests, not only for emphasis, but to carry a slight tinge of the coming exhortation, by shewing them what they  ought to be, as well as were by profession)  light (not πεφωτισμένοι light has an active, illuminating power, which is brought out in Eph 5:13 )  in (‘  in union with ’ conditioning element not ‘  by ’ διὰ τῆς θεοῦ χάριτος , Chr.)  the Lord (Jesus):  walk (the omission of οὖν makes the inference rhetorically more forcible)  as children of light (not τοῦ φωτός , as in Luke 16:8 , where τὸ φῶς is contrasted with ὁ αἰὼν οὗτος , and in next verse, where τοῦ φωτός is the figurative φῶς q. d. ‘the light of which I speak:’ here it is light,  as light , which is spoken of. The omission of the article  may be merely from the rules of correlation, as Ellic.: but I much prefer here to treat it as significant);  for (gives the reason of the introduction of the comparison in the context, connecting this with the moral details which have preceded)  the fruit of the light ( τοῦ , see above)  is in (is borne within the sphere of, as its condition and element)  all goodness and righteousness and truth (in all that is good ( Gal 5:22 ), right, and true. As Harl. observes, the opposites are κακία , ἀδικία , ψεῦδος ):  proving (to be joined with περιπατεῖτε as its modal predicate, Eph 5:9 having been parenthetical. The Christian’s whole course is a continual proving, testing, of the will of God in practice: investigating not what pleases himself, but what pleases Him)  what is well-pleasing to the Lord ;