 22 .]  Wives (supply, as rec. has inserted, ὑποτάσσεσθε , seeing that the subsequent address to husbands is in the 2nd person),  to your own husbands (  ἰδίοις , as we often use the word (e.g. ‘He murdered his own father’), to intensify the recognition of the relationship and suggest its duties: see 1 Corinthians 7:2 : also Joh 5:18 ),  as to the Lord (‘quasi Christo ipsimet, cujus locum et personam viri repræsentant.’ Corn.-a-lap. in Ellic.: i.e. ‘in obeying your husbands, obey the Lord:’ not merely as in all things we are to have regard to Him, but because, as below expanded, the husband stands peculiarly in Christ’s place. But he is not thus identified in power with Christ, nor the obedience, in its nature, with that which is owed to Him):  for a husband (any husband, taken as an example: the same in sense would be expressed by ὁ ἀνήρ , the husband in each case, generic: sing. of οἱ ἄνδρες )  is head of his wife, as also (  καί , introducing identity of category)  Christ is Head of the church (see for the sentiment, 1Co 11:3 note), (  being , in His case see below)  Himself Saviour of the Body (i.e. ‘in Christ’s case the Headship is united with, nay gained by, His having SAVED the body in the process of Redemption: so that I am not alleging Christ’s Headship as one entirely identical with that other, for He has a claim to it and office in it peculiar to Himself.’ ‘Vir autem non est servator uxoris, in eo Christus excellit: hinc  sed sequitur.’ Bengel. Stier remarks the apparent play on  σωτήρ    σώματος , in reference to the supposed derivation of σῶμα from σώω ( σώζω ); and has noticed that in the only other place (except the pastoral Epistles) where St. Paul uses  σωτήρ , Philippians 3:20-21 , it is also in connexion with  σῶμα ):  but (what I do say is, that thus far the two Headships are to be regarded as identical, in the  subjection of the body to the Head)  as the church is subjected to Christ, so also (again, identity of category in the  ὑποτάσσ  . )  let the wives be to their husbands (not ἰδίοις now, as it would disturb the perspicuity of the comparison)  in every thing (thus only, with Calv., Beng., Mey., Ellic., can I find any legitimate meaning or connexion in the words. All attempts 1) to explain  σωτὴρ τυῦ σώμ  . also of the marriage state (Bulling., Beza, ‘viri est quærere quod mulier conservet’), or 2) to deprive  ἀλλά of its adversative force (Rück., Harl., al.), or 3) refer it to something other than the preceding clause (De W., Eadie), seem to me unsatisfactory).