 3 .]  But (not transitional merely: there is a contrast brought out by the very mention of  πορνεία after what has just been said)  fornication and all impurity or (see ch. Eph 4:19 note)  covetousness (ib.),  let it not be even named (‘ne nomen quidem audiatur.’ Calv. So Dio Chrys. p. 360 B (Mey.), στάσιν δὲ οὐδὲ ὀνομάζειν ἄξιον παρ ʼ ὑμῖν : Herod. i. 138, ἅσσα δέ σφι ποιέειν οὐκ ἔξεστι , ταῦτα οὐδὲ λέγειν ἔξεστι . Cf. Psa 15:4 )  among you, as becometh saints (meaning, that if it were talked of, such conversation would be  unbecoming the holy ones of God):  and obscenity (not in word only ( αἰσχρολογία , ref. Col.): cf. Plato, Gorg. p. 525 A, ὑπὸ ἐξουσίας κ . τρυφῆς κ . ὕβρεως κ . ἀκρατίας τῶν πράξεων ἀσυμμετρίας τε καὶ  αἰσχρότητος γέμουσαν τὴν ψυχὴν εἶδεν )  and foolish talking (‘stultiloquium,’ Vulg. Wetst. quotes from Antigonus de Mirabilibus, 126, τὰ μεγάλα κ . ἐπανεστηκότα μωρολογίας κ . ἀδολεσχίας . Trench well maintains, Syn. § 34, that in Christian ethics, it is more than mere ‘random talk:’ it is that talk of fools, which is folly and sin together: including not merely the πᾶν ῥῆμα ἀργόν of our Lord ( Mat 12:36 ), but in good part also the πᾶς λόγος σαπρός of his Apostle ( Eph 4:29 )) or (disjunctive, marking off  εὐτραπελία as  πλεονεξία before)  jesting (much interest attaches to this word, which will be found well discussed in Trench, as above. It had at first a  good signification: Aristot. Eth. Nic. iv. 8, deals with the  εὐτράπελος οἱἐμμελῶς παίζοντες εὐτράπελοι προσαγορεύονται , and describes him as the mean between the βωμολόχος and ἄγροικος . So too Plato, Rep. viii. p. 563 A, οἱ δὲ γέροντες ξυγκαθιέντες τοῖς νέοις εὐτραπελίας τε κ . χαριεντισμοῦ ἐμπίπλανται , … ἵνα δὴ μὴ δοκῶσιν ἀηδεῖς εἶναι μηδὲ δεσποτικοί . But Trench remarks that there were indications of a  bad sense of the word: e.g. Pind. Pyth. i. 178, μὴ δολωθῇς , ὦ φίλε , κέρδεσιν εὐτραπέλοις , where he quotes from Dissen ‘primum est de facilitate in motu, tum ad mores transfertur, et indicat hominem temporibus inservientem, diciturque tum de sermone urbano, lepido, faceto, imprimis cum levitatis et assentationis, simulationis notione.’ I may add, as even more apposite here, Pyth. iv. 185, οὔτε ἔργον οὔτ ʼ ἔπος εὐτράπελον κείνοισιν εἰπών . Aristotle himself, Rhet. ii. 12 end, defines it as πεπαιδευμένη ὕβρις . “The profligate old man in the ‘miles gloriosus’ of Plautus, iii. 1. 42 52, who at the same time prides himself, and with reason, on his wit, his elegance, and his refinement (cavillatus, lepidus, facetus), is exactly the εὐτράπελος : and remarkably enough, when we remember that εὐτραπελία being only expressly forbidden once in Scripture, is forbidden to  Ephesians , we find him bringing out, that all this was to be expected from him, seeing that he was an Ephesian: ‘Post Ephesi sum natus: non enim in Apulis, non Animulæ.’ ” Trench: whose further remarks should by all means be read),  which are not becoming (the reading τὰ οὐκ ἀνήκοντα has perhaps come into the text from the τὰ μὴ καθήκοντα of Romans 1:28 , the οὐκ of the text being preserved through inadvertence. If, however, the participial clause be retained in the text, it may be grammatically justified by remembering that, where the various objects are specified which as matter of fact are οὐκ ἀνήκοντα , the objective negative particle οὐκ may be used: whereas in Romans 1:28 , where no such objects are specified, we have ποιεῖν τὰ μὴ καθήκοντα , ‘si quæ essent indecora,’ as Winer, § 55. 5: see Hartung, vol. ii. p. 131):  but rather thanksgiving (not, as Jer., Calv., al., ‘  sermo qui gratiam apud audientes habet,’ which the word cannot mean. It is a question, what verb is to be supplied: Beng. supposes ἀνήκει , which is perhaps most likely, as suiting the simplicity of the construction of these hortatory verses better than going back to ὀνομαζέσθω (De W., Mey., al.), and as finding a parallel in ch. Ephesians 4:29 , where the ellipsis is to be supplied from the sentence itself. There is a play perhaps on the similar sound of εὐτραπελία and εὐχαριστία , which may account for the latter not finding so complete a justification in the sense as we might expect: the connexion being apparently, ‘your true cheerfulness and play of fancy will be found, not in buffoonery, but in the joy of a heart overflowing with a sense of God’s mercies’).