The place [τον τοπον] . Some explain of a particular seat in the assembly. Rather it expresses the condition of those who are unintelligent as regards the utterance in an unknown tongue. The unlearned [ιδιωτου] . Only once outside of the Corinthian Epistles : Acts 4:13 (see note). In the Septuagint it does not occur, but its kindred words are limited to the sense of private, personal. Trench (" Synonyms ") illustrates the fact that in classical Greek there lies habitually in the word "a negative of the particular skill, knowledge, profession, or standing, over against which it is antithetically set; and not of any other except that alone." As over against the physician, for instance, he is ijdiwthv in being unskilled in medicine. This is plainly the case here - the man who is unlearned as respects the gift of tongues. From the original meaning of a private individual, the word came to denote one who was unfit for public life, and therefore uneducated, and finally, one whose mental powers were deficient. Hence our idiot. Idiot, however, in earlier English, was used in the milder sense of an uneducated person. Thus "Christ was received of idiots, of the vulgar people, and of the simpler sort" (Blount). "What, wenest thou make an idiot of our dame?" (Chaucer, 5893). "This plain and idiotical style of Scripture." " Pictures are the scripture of idiots and simple persons " (Jeremy Taylor). Amen. Rev., correctly, the Amen. The customary response of the congregation, adopted from the synagogue worship. See Deuteronomy 27:15 sqq.; Nehemiah 8:6. The Rabbins have numerous sayings about the Amen. "Greater is he who responds Amen than he who blesses." "Whoever answers Amen, his name shall be great and blessed, and the decree of his damnation is utterly done away." " To him who answers Amen the gates of Paradise are open. "An ill - considered Amen was styled" an orphan Amen. "" Whoever says an orphan Amen, his children shall be orphans." The custom was perpetuated in Christian worship, and this response enters into all the ancient liturgies. Jerome says that the united voice of the people in the Amen sounded like the fall of water or the sound of thunder.