Verse Ephesians 2:3. Among whom also we all had our conversation — We JEWS, as well as you Gentiles, have lived in transgressions and sins; ανεστραφημεν, this was the course of our life; we lived in sin, walked in sin, it was woven through our whole constitution, it tinged every temper, polluted every faculty, and perverted every transaction of life. The lusts - the evil, irregular, and corrupt affections of the heart, showed themselves in the perversion of the mind as well as in our general conduct. The mind was darkened by the lusts of the flesh, and both conjoined to produce acts of unrighteousness. It was not the will of God that was done by us, but the will of the flesh and of the mind.And were by nature the children of wrath — For the import of the phrase, by nature, φυσει, Galatians 2:15, and Romans 2:14. To what is said on those passages, I may add, from Dr. Macknight: - "Nature often signifies one's birth and education, Galatians 2:15: We, who are Jews BY NATURE. Also, men's natural reason and conscience, Romans 2:14: The Gentiles who have not the law, do BY NATURE the things contained in the law, c. Also, the general sense and practice of mankind, 1 Corinthians 11:14: Doth not even NATURE itself teach you, that if a man have long hair, c. Also, the original constitution of any thing, Galatians 4:8: Who are not gods BY NATURE, Also, a disposition formed by custom and habit thus Demetrius Phalereus said of the Lacedemonians: φυσει εβραχυλογουν λακωνες. The Lacedemonians had naturally a concise mode of speaking. Hence our word laconic a short speech, or much sense conveyed in a few words." The words in the text have often been quoted to prove the doctrine of original sin, but, though that doctrine be an awful truth, it is not, in my opinion, intended here; it is rather found in the preceding words, the lusts of the flesh, and the desires of the flesh and of the mind. The apostle appears to speak of sinful habits; and as we say HABIT is a second nature, and as these persons acted from their originally corrupt nature - from the lusts of the flesh and of the mind, they thus became, by their vicious habits, or second nature, children of wrath - persons exposed to perdition, because of the impurity of their hearts and the wickedness of their lives. Here we see that the fallen, apostate nature produces the fruits of unrighteousness. The bad tree produces bad fruit.Children of wrath is the same as son of perdition, son of death, c. i.e. persons exposed to God's displeasure, because of their sins.