Hebrews 10:5.  Wherefore, let me describe, says the writer, in O. T. language, the voluntary offering of Christ and His setting aside of the offerings of the law  when coming into the world  the incarnate Messiah, to do the will of His Father  he saith, Sacrifice (victim)  and offering (gift)  thou desiredst  not. This language and the language of Hebrews 10:6 has created difficulty. All these offerings were commanded, and were offered according to the Law (Hebrews 10:8). Why then did not God desire them? or find pleasure in them? When offered indeed in hypocrisy, to the neglect of moral obedience, or when trusted in for righteousness and acceptance, they were, as we know, rejected. But these reasons are not assigned here. The explanation, therefore, is to be sought elsewhere. It is of atonement for sin the writer is speaking. In sacrifice or mere suffering God cannot delight, and if it is spiritually powerless, insufficient to atone for sin, it is useless, and may even be worse than useless. In whole burnt-offerings (see Leviticus 1:16, Lev. 1:27), in sacrifices for sin of whatever kind (sin-offerings, Leviticus 4:3; Leviticus 4:20, etc.; trespass-offerings, Leviticus 5:15; peace-offerings, Leviticus 3:0; Leviticus 7:11-23), God had no pleasure, because none, no one, nor all combined, were an adequate propitiation. But when Christ came in the body which the Father had prepared, and to offer the sacrifice of Himself, the Father declared that in Him at every stage He was well pleased (Matthew 3:17; Matthew 17:5); and so because of His ‘obedience unto death,’ He became Lord over all. The clause, ‘a body hast Thou prepared for me,’ has created difficulty. The present Hebrew text is, ‘My ears hast Thou opened or pierced.’ The rendering ‘pierced’ is supposed to refer to the man who became a life-long servant under the circumstances described in Exodus 21:6, etc.; but this view is not favoured by the plural form ‘my  ears,’  nor is the Hebrew word here used, the usual word for ‘piercing.’ ‘My ears hast Thou opened’ is therefore the better rendering, describing as it does hearty and devoted obedience, as in Isaiah 1:5. It is not easy to explain the change in the Septuagint. Perhaps the Greek text better represents to a Greek reader the general sense. Perhaps there has been confusion in copying Greek MSS., or possibly some later alteration of the Hebrew. Each theory has its advocates.
	