But that the world may know, etc. The connection in this verse is much disputed. Some explain, Arise, let us go hence, that the world may know that I love the Father, and that even as the Father commanded me so I do. Others, So I do, that the world may know - and even as the Father, etc. Others, again, take the opening phrase as elliptical, supplying either, he cometh, i e., Satan, in order that the world may know - and that as the Father, etc.; or, I surrender myself to suffering and death that the world may know, etc. In this case, Arise, etc., will form, as in A. V. and Rev., an independent sentence. I incline to adopt this. The phrase ajll' ina, but in order that, with an ellipsis, is common in John. See John 1:8, John 1:31; John 9:3; John 13:18; John 14:25; 1 John 2:19. ===John 15:0 CHAPTER XV Where the following discourses were uttered is a matter of uncertainty. Some suppose that after the words, Arise, let us go hence, the disciples still lingered at the table. Others, that the discourses were spoken on the way to the Mount of Olives; and others, again, in the court of the temple. Assuming that the figure of the vine was suggested by some external object, that object is explained according to the different views of the scene of the discourses. Those who think that it was the chamber which the company had not yet left, suggest the cup of wine of which they had recently partaken (Meyer); or a vine whose tendrils had crept into the room (Tholuck); or the view of vineyards outside in the light of the moon [στορρ] . Those who assign the discourses to the walk to the Mount of Olives, down to Kedron through the vineyards, draw the figure from the vineyards, and the fires burning along the sides of the Kedron valley in order to consume the vine - cuttings (Lange, Godet). Those who place the discourses in the court of the temple, find the suggestion in the great golden vine over the temple - gate (Westcott, Lampe). Others, again, think that the similitude was not drawn from any external object, but was suggested by the familiar Old Testament symbolism of the vineyard and the vine, as in Psalms 80:8-19; Isaiah 5:1 sqq.; Jeremiah 2:21; Ezekiel 19:10 sqq. (So Lucke, Alford, Milligan and Moulton, and Trench).