20. "Forasmuch as ye know
	this" (1 Peter 1:18). 
	first—the foremost
	consideration in studying the word of prophecy. Laying it down as a
	first principle never to be lost sight of. 
	is—Greek, not
	the simple verb, to be, but to begin to be, "proves
	to be," "becometh." No prophecy is found to be the
	result of "private (the mere individual writer's uninspired)
	interpretation" (solution), and so origination.
	The Greek noun epilusis, does not mean in itself
	origination; but that which the sacred writer could not always
	fully interpret, though being the speaker or writer (as 1 Peter 1:18- : implies), was plainly not of his own, but of God's
	disclosure, origination, and inspiration, as Peter
	proceeds to add, "But holy men . . . spake (and afterwards
	wrote) . . . moved by the Holy Ghost": a reason why ye
	should "give" all "heed" to it. The parallelism
	to 2 Peter 1:16 shows that "private
	interpretation," contrasted with "moved by the Holy
	Ghost," here answers to "fables devised by (human)
	wisdom," contrasted with "we were eye-witnesses of
	His majesty," as attested by the "voice from God."
	The words of the prophetical (and so of all) Scripture writers were
	not mere words of the individuals, and therefore to be
	interpreted by them, but of "the Holy Ghost" by whom
	they were "moved." "Private" is explained, 2 Peter 1:16- :, "by the will of man" (namely, the individual
	writer). In a secondary sense the text teaches also, as the word is
	the Holy Spirit's, it cannot be interpreted by its
	readers (any more than by its writers) by their mere
	private human powers, but by the teaching of the Holy Ghost
	(John 16:14). "He who is
	the author of Scripture is its supreme interpreter" [GERHARD].
	ALFORD translates,
	"springs not out of human interpretation," that is, is not
	a prognostication made by a man knowing what he means when he
	utters it, but," &c. (John 16:14- :). Rightly: except that the verb is rather, doth
	become, or prove to be. It not being of private
	interpretation, you must "give heed" to it, looking
	for the Spirit's illumination "in your hearts"
	(compare Note, see on John 16:14- :).