1. Simon—the Greek
	form: in oldest manuscripts, "Symeon" (Hebrew, that
	is, "hearing), as in  :-. His mention of his original name accords with the design
	of this Second Epistle, which is to warn against the coming false
	teachers, by setting forth the true "knowledge" of Christ
	on the testimony of the original apostolic eye-witnesses like
	himself. This was not required in the First Epistle. 
	servant—"slave":
	so Paul, Romans 1:1. 
	to them, c.—He
	addresses a wider range of readers (all believers) than in the
	First Epistle, 2 Peter 1:1, but
	means to include especially those addressed in the First
	Epistle, as 2 Peter 3:1 proves. 
	obtained—by grace.
	Applied by Peter to the receiving of the apostleship,
	literally, "by allotment": as the Greek is, Luke 1:9
John 19:24. They did not acquire
	it for themselves; the divine election is as independent of man's
	control, as the lot which is east forth. 
	like precious—"equally
	precious" to all: to those who believe, though not having seen
	Christ, as well as to Peter and those who have seen Him. For it lays
	hold of the same "exceeding great and precious promises,"
	and the same "righteousness of God our Saviour." "The
	common salvation . . . the faith once delivered unto the
	saints" (Judges 1:3). 
	with us—apostles and
	eye-witnesses (2 Peter 1:18).
	Though putting forward his apostleship to enforce his
	exhortation, he with true humility puts himself, as to "the
	faith," on a level with all other believers. The degree of faith
	varies in different believers; but in respect to its objects,
	present justification, sanctification, and future glorification, it
	is common alike to all. Christ is to all believers "made of God
	wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption." 
	through—Greek,
	"in." Translate, as the one article to both nouns requires,
	"the righteousness of Him who is (at once) our God and
	(our) Saviour." Peter, confirming Pau;'s testimony to the same
	churches, adopts Paul's inspired phraseology. The Gospel plan sets
	forth God's righteousness, which is Christ's righteousness, in
	the brightest light. Faith has its sphere IN
	it as its peculiar element: God is in redemption "righteous,"
	and at the same time a "Saviour"; compare 2 Peter 1:18- :, "a just God and a Saviour.