Verse 28. God hath set some in the Church — As God has made evident distinctions among the members of the human body, so that some occupy a more eminent place than others, so has he in the Church. And to prove this, the apostle numerates the principal offices, and in the order in which they should stand.First, apostles — αποστολους, from απο from, and στελλο I send; to send from one person to another, and from one place to another. Persons immediately designated by Christ, and sent by him to preach the Gospel to all mankind.Secondarily, prophets — προφητας, from προ, before, and φημι, I speak; a person who, under Divine inspiration, predicts future events; but the word is often applied to these who preach the Gospel. See note on 1 Corinthians 12:8.Thirdly, teachers — διδασκαλους, from διδασκω, I teach; persons whose chief business it was to instruct the people in the elements of the Christian religion, and their duty to each other. Romans 8:8; Romans 8:8.Miracles — δυναμεις. Persons endued with miraculous gifts, such as those mentioned Mark 16:17, Mark 16:18; casting out devils, speaking with new tongues, c. See note on 1 Corinthians 12:8, and at the end of the chapter. 1 Corinthians 12:31 (note)Gifts of healings — χαρισματα ιαματων. Such as laying hands upon the sick, and healing them, Mark 16:18 which, as being one of the most beneficent miraculous powers, was most frequently conceded. See note on 1 Corinthians 12:8.Helps — αντιληψεις. Dr. Lightfoot conjectures that these were the apostles' helpers; persons who accompanied them, baptized those who were converted by them, and were sent by them to such places as they could not attend to, being otherwise employed.The Levites are termed by the Talmudists helps of the priests. The word occurs Luke 1:54; Romans 8:26.Governments — κυβερνησεις. Dr. Lightfoot contends that this word does not refer to the power of ruling, but to the case of a person endued with a deep and comprehensive mind, who is profoundly wise and prudent; and he thinks that it implies the same as discernment of spirits, 1 Corinthians 12:8, where see the note. He has given several proofs of this use of the word in the Septuagint.Diversities of tongues. — γενη γλωσσων. Kinds of tongues; that is, different kinds. The power to speak, on all necessary occasions, languages which they had not learned. See note on 1 Corinthians 12:8.