10. Blessed are they which are
	persecuted for righteousness' sake, c.—How entirely this final
	beatitude has its ground in the Old Testament, is evident from the
	concluding words, where the encouragement held out to endure such
	persecutions consists in its being but a continuation of what was
	experienced by the Old Testament servants of God. But how, it may be
	asked, could such beautiful features of character provoke
	persecution? To this the following answers should suffice: "Every
	one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light,
	lest his deeds should be reproved." "The world cannot hate
	you but Me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof
	are evil." "If ye were of the world, the world would love
	his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you
	out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." "There
	is yet one man (said wicked Ahab to good Jehoshaphat) by whom we may
	inquire of the Lord: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good
	unto me, but always evil" (John 3:20;
	John 7:7; John 15:19;
	2 Chronicles 18:7). But more particularly,
	the seven characters here described are all in the teeth of the
	spirit of the world, insomuch that such hearers of this discourse as
	breathed that spirit must have been startled, and had their whole
	system of thought and action rudely dashed. Poverty of spirit runs
	counter to the pride of men's heart; a pensive disposition, in the
	view of one's universal deficiencies before God, is ill relished by
	the callous, indifferent, laughing, self-satisfied world; a meek and
	quiet spirit, taking wrong, is regarded as pusillanimous, and rasps
	against the proud, resentful spirit of the world; that craving after
	spiritual blessings rebukes but too unpleasantly the lust of the
	flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride of life; so does a merciful
	spirit the hard-heartedness of the world; purity of heart contrasts
	painfully with painted hypocrisy; and the peacemaker cannot easily be
	endured by the contentious, quarrelsome world. Thus does
	"righteousness" come to be "persecuted." But
	blessed are they who, in spite of this, dare to be righteous. 
	for theirs is the kingdom of
	heaven—As this was the reward promised to the poor in
	spirit—the leading one of these seven beatitudes—of course it is
	the proper portion of such as are persecuted for exemplifying them.