7. Blessed are the merciful: for
	they shall obtain mercy—Beautiful is the connection between
	this and the preceding beatitude. The one has a natural tendency to
	beget the other. As for the words, they seem directly fetched from  :-, "With the merciful Thou wilt show Thyself merciful."
	Not that our mercifulness comes absolutely first. On the contrary,
	our Lord Himself expressly teaches us that God's method is to awaken
	in us compassion towards our fellow men by His own exercise of it, in
	so stupendous a way and measure, towards ourselves. In the parable of
	the unmerciful debtor, the servant to whom his lord forgave ten
	thousand talents was naturally expected to exercise the small measure
	of the same compassion required for forgiving his fellow servant's
	debt of a hundred pence; and it is only when, instead of this, he
	relentlessly imprisoned him till he should pay it up, that his lord's
	indignation was roused, and he who was designed for a vessel of mercy
	is treated as a vessel of wrath ( :-; and see Matthew 5:23;
	Matthew 5:24; Matthew 6:15;
	James 2:13). "According to the
	view given in Scripture," says TRENCH
	most justly, "the Christian stands in a middle point, between a
	mercy received and a mercy yet needed. Sometimes the first is urged
	upon him as an argument for showing mercy—'forgiving one another,
	as Christ forgave you' (Colossians 3:13;
	Ephesians 4:32): sometimes the
	last—'Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy';
	'Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven' (Luke 6:37;
	James 5:9). And thus, while he is
	ever to look back on the mercy received as the source and motive of
	the mercy which he shows, he also looks forward to the mercy which he
	yet needs, and which he is assured that the merciful—according to
	what BENGEL beautifully
	calls the benigna talio ('the gracious requital') of the
	kingdom of God—shall receive, as a new provocation to its abundant
	exercise." The foretastes and beginnings of this judicial
	recompense are richly experienced here below: its perfection is
	reserved for that day when, from His great white throne, the King
	shall say, "Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom
	prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was an
	hungered, and thirsty, and a stranger, and naked, and sick, and in
	prison, and ye ministered unto Me." Yes, thus He acted towards
	us while on earth, even laying down His life for us; and He will not,
	He cannot disown, in the merciful, the image of Himself.