37. But let your communication—"your
	word," in ordinary intercourse, be, 
	Yea, yea; Nay, nay—Let
	a simple Yes and No suffice in affirming the truth or
	the untruth of anything. (See James 5:12;
	2 Corinthians 1:17; 2 Corinthians 1:18).
	for whatsoever is more than
	these cometh of evil—not "of the evil one"; though an
	equally correct rendering of the words, and one which some expositors
	prefer. It is true that all evil in our world is originally of the
	devil, that it forms a kingdom at the head of which he sits, and
	that, in every manifestation of it he has an active part. But any
	reference to this here seems unnatural, and the allusion to this
	passage in the Epistle of James (2 Corinthians 1:18- :) seems to show that this is not the sense of it: "Let
	your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into
	condemnation." The untruthfulness of our corrupt nature
	shows itself not only in the tendency to deviate from the strict
	truth, but in the disposition to suspect others of doing the same;
	and as this is not diminished, but rather aggravated, by the habit of
	confirming what we say by an oath, we thus run the risk of having all
	reverence for God's holy name, and even for strict truth, destroyed
	in our hearts, and so "fall into condemnation." The
	practice of going beyond Yes and No in affirmations and denials—as
	if our word for it were not enough, and we expected others to
	question it—springs from that vicious root of untruthfulness which
	is only aggravated by the very effort to clear ourselves of the
	suspicion of it. And just as swearing to the truth of what we say
	begets the disposition it is designed to remove, so the love and
	reign of truth in the breasts of Christ's disciples reveals itself so
	plainly even to those who themselves cannot be trusted, that their
	simple Yes and No come soon to be more relied on than the most solemn
	asseverations of others. Thus does the grace of our Lord Jesus
	Christ, like a tree cast into the bitter waters of human corruption,
	heal and sweeten them. 
	Same Subject—Retaliation
	(Matthew 5:38-42). We have
	here the converse of the preceding lessons. They were negative:
	these are positive.