18. For verily I say unto you—Here,
	for the first time, does that august expression occur in our Lord's
	recorded teaching, with which we have grown so familiar as hardly to
	reflect on its full import. It is the expression manifestly, of
	supreme legislative authority; and as the subject in
	connection with which it is uttered is the Moral Law, no higher claim
	to an authority strictly divine could be advanced. For when we
	observe how jealously Jehovah asserts it as His exclusive prerogative
	to give law to men (Leviticus 18:1-5;
	Leviticus 19:37; Leviticus 26:1-4;
	Leviticus 26:13-16, c.), such
	language as this of our Lord will appear totally unsuitable, and
	indeed abhorrent, from any creature lips. When the Baptist's words—"I
	say unto you" (Matthew 3:9) —are
	compared with those of his Master here, the difference of the two
	cases will be at once apparent. 
	Till heaven and earth
	pass—Though even the Old Testament announces the ultimate
	"perdition of the heavens and the earth," in contrast with
	the immutability of Jehovah (Matthew 3:9- :), the prevalent representation of the heavens and the
	earth in Scripture, when employed as a popular figure, is that of
	their stability (Psalms 119:89-91
Ecclesiastes 1:4; Jeremiah 33:25;
	Jeremiah 33:26). It is the enduring
	stability, then, of the great truths and principles, moral and
	spiritual, of the Old Testament revelation which our Lord thus
	expresses. 
	one jot—the smallest of
	the Hebrew letters. 
	one tittle—one of those
	little strokes by which alone some of the Hebrew letters are
	distinguished from others like them. 
	shall in no wise pass from
	the law, till all be fulfilled—The meaning is that "not so
	much as the smallest loss of authority or vitality shall ever come
	over the law." The expression, "till all be fulfilled,"
	is much the same in meaning as "it shall be had in
	undiminished and enduring honor, from its greatest to its least
	requirements." Again, this general way of viewing our Lord's
	words here seems far preferable to that doctrinal
	understanding of them which would require us to determine the
	different kinds of "fulfilment" which the moral and
	the ceremonial parts of it were to have.