21. Ye have heard that it was said
	by them of old time—or, as in the Margin, "to them
	of old time." Which of these translations is the right one has
	been much controverted. Either of them is grammatically defensible,
	though the latter—"to the ancients"—is more
	consistent with New Testament usage (see the Greek of Romans 9:12;
	Romans 9:26; Revelation 6:11;
	Revelation 9:4); and most critics decide
	in favor of it. But it is not a question of Greek only. Nearly
	all who would translate "to the ancients" take the speaker
	of the words quoted to be Moses in the law; "the
	ancients" to be the people to whom Moses gave the law;
	and the intention of our Lord here to be to contrast His own
	teaching, more or less, with that of Moses; either as opposed to
	it—as some go the length of affirming—or at least as modifying,
	enlarging, elevating it. But who can reasonably imagine such a thing,
	just after the most solemn and emphatic proclamation of the
	perpetuity of the law, and the honor and glory in which it was to be
	held under the new economy? To us it seems as plain as possible that
	our Lord's one object is to contrast the traditional perversions of
	the law with the true sense of it as expounded by Himself. A few of
	those who assent to this still think that "to the ancients"
	is the only legitimate translation of the words; understanding that
	our Lord is reporting what had been said to the ancients, not by
	Moses, but by the perverters of his law. We do not object to this;
	but we incline to think (with BEZA,
	and after him with FRITZSCHE,
	OLSHAUSEN, STIER,
	and BLOOMFIELD) that "by
	the ancients" must have been what our Lord meant here, referring
	to the corrupt teachers rather than the perverted people. 
	Thou shall not kill:—that
	is, This being all that the law requires, whosoever has imbrued his
	hands in his brother's blood, but he only, is guilty of a breach of
	this commandment. 
	and whosoever shall kill
	shall be in danger of the judgment—liable to the judgment; that
	is, of the sentence of those inferior courts of judicature which were
	established in all the principal towns, in compliance with Revelation 9:4- :. Thus was this commandment reduced, from a holy law of the
	heart-searching God, to a mere criminal statute, taking cognizance
	only of outward actions, such as that which we read in Exodus 21:12;
	Leviticus 24:17.