9. Blessed are the peacemakers—who
	not only study peace, but diffuse it. 
	for they shall be called the
	children of God—shall be called sons of God. Of all these
	beatitudes this is the only one which could hardly be expected to
	find its definite ground in the Old Testament; for that most glorious
	character of God, the likeness of which appears in the peacemakers,
	had yet to be revealed. His glorious name, indeed—as "The
	Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and
	abundant in goodness and truth, forgiving iniquity and transgression
	and sin"—had been proclaimed in a very imposing manner ( :-), and manifested in action with affecting frequency and
	variety in the long course of the ancient economy. And we have
	undeniable evidence that the saints of that economy felt its
	transforming and ennobling influence on their own character. But it
	was not till Christ "made peace by the blood of the cross"
	that God could manifest Himself as "the God of peace, that
	brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great Shepherd of
	the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant" ( :-) —could reveal Himself as "in Christ reconciling the
	world unto Himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them,"
	and hold Himself forth in the astonishing attitude of beseeching men
	to be "reconciled to Himself" (2 Corinthians 5:19;
	2 Corinthians 5:20). When this
	reconciliation actually takes place, and one has "peace with God
	through our Lord Jesus Christ"—even "the peace of God
	which passeth all understanding"—the peace-receivers become
	transformed into peace-diffusers. God is thus seen reflected in them;
	and by the family likeness these peacemakers are recognized as the
	children of God. In now coming to the eighth, or supplementary
	beatitude, it will be seen that all that the saints are in
	themselves has been already described, in seven features of
	character; that number indicating completeness of delineation.
	The last feature, accordingly, is a passive one, representing the
	treatment that the characters already described may expect from the
	world. He who shall one day fix the destiny of all men here
	pronounces certain characters "blessed"; but He ends by
	forewarning them that the world's estimation and treatment of them
	will be the reserve of His.