6. Blessed are they which do hunger
	and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled—"shall
	be saturated." "From this verse," says THOLUCK,
	"the reference to the Old Testament background ceases."
	Surprising! On the contrary, none of these beatitudes is more
	manifestly dug out of the rich mine of the Old Testament. Indeed, how
	could any one who found in the Old Testament "the poor in
	spirit," and "the mourners in Zion," doubt that he
	would also find those same characters also craving that
	righteousness which they feel and mourn their want of? But what is
	the precise meaning of "righteousness" here? Lutheran
	expositors, and some of our own, seem to have a hankering after that
	more restricted sense of the term in which it is used with reference
	to the sinner's justification before God. (See Jeremiah 23:6;
	Isaiah 45:24; Romans 4:6;
	2 Corinthians 5:21). But, in so
	comprehensive a saying as this, it is clearly to be taken—as in 2 Corinthians 5:21- : also—in a much wider sense, as denoting that spiritual and
	entire conformity to the law of God, under the want of which the
	saints groan, and the possession of which constitutes the only true
	saintship. The Old Testament dwells much on this righteousness, as
	that which alone God regards with approbation (Psalms 11:7;
	Psalms 23:3; Psalms 106:3;
	Proverbs 12:28; Proverbs 16:31;
	Isaiah 64:5, c.). As hunger and
	thirst are the keenest of our appetites, our Lord, by employing this
	figure here, plainly means "those whose deepest cravings are
	after spiritual blessings." And in the Old Testament we find
	this craving variously expressed: "Hearken unto Me, ye that
	follow after righteousness, ye that seek the Lord" (Isaiah 64:5- :) "I have waited for Thy salvation, O Lord,"
	exclaimed dying Jacob (Genesis 49:18);
	"My soul," says the sweet Psalmist, "breaketh for the
	longing that it hath unto Thy judgments at all times" (Genesis 49:18- :): and in similar breathings does he give vent to his
	deepest longings in that and other Psalms. Well, our Lord just takes
	up here—this blessed frame of mind, representing it as—the surest
	pledge of the coveted supplies, as it is the best preparative, and
	indeed itself the beginning of them. "They shall be saturated,"
	He says; they shall not only have what they so highly value and long
	to possess, but they shall have their fill of it. Not here, however.
	Even in the Old Testament this was well understood. "Deliver
	me," says the Psalmist, in language which, beyond all doubt,
	stretches beyond the present scene, "from men of the world,
	which have their portion in this life: as for me, I shall behold Thy
	face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with Thy
	likeness" (Genesis 49:18- :). The foregoing beatitudes—the first four—represent
	the saints rather as conscious of their need of salvation, and
	acting suitably to that character, than as possessed of it. The next
	three are of a different kind—representing the saints as having
	now found salvation, and conducting themselves accordingly.