Therefore. Paul has spoken, in ch. 1 26, of the Philippians' joy in his presence. Their joy is to find expression in duty - in the fulfillment of their obligations as members of the christian commonwealth, by fighting the good fight of faith and cheerfully appropriating the gift of suffering (ch. 1 27 - 29). Ver. 30, alluding to his own conflicts, marks the transition from the thought of their joy to that of his joy. Therefore, since such is your duty and privilege, fulfill my joy, and show yourselves to be true citizens of God 's kingdom by your humility and unity of spirit. Consolation [παρακλησις] . Rev., comfort. Better, exhortation. See on Luke 6:24. If Christ, by His example, sufferings, and conflicts, exhorts you. Comfort of love [παραμυθιον] . Rev., consolation. Only here in the New Testament. From para beside, and muqov speech or word. Para has the same force as in paraklhsiv exhortation (see on Luke 6:24); a word which comes to the side of one to stimulate or comfort him; hence an exhortation, an encouragement. So Plato : "Let this, then, be our exhortation concerning marriage" (" Laws, "773). A motive of persuasion or dissuasion. Plato, speaking of the fear of disgrace, or of ill - repute, says." The obedient nature will readily yield to such incentives "(" Laws," 880). Also an assuagement or abatement. So Sophocles : "Offspring of the noble, ye are come as the assuagement of my woes" (" Electra, "130). Plato :" They say that to the rich are many consolations "(" Republic," 329). Plato also calls certain fruits stimulants [παραμυθια] of a sated appetite (" Critias, " 115). Here in the sense of incentive. As related to exhortation, exhortation uses incentive as a ground of appeal. Christ exhorts, appealing to love. Compare ch. 1 9 sqq. See Romans 5:8; 1 Corinthians 13:4; 2 Corinthians 5:14; Galatians 5:13; Ephesians 5:2; 1 John 4:16, etc. The two verbs kindred to exhortation and incentive occur together at 1 Thessalonians 2:11. See on 1 Corinthians 14:3. Render here, if any incentive of love. Fellowship of the Spirit. Communion with the Holy Spirit, whose first fruit is love. Galatians 5:22. Participation in His gifts and influences. Compare 2 Peter 1:4, and 2 Corinthians 13:13. Bowels and mercies [σπλαγχνα και οικτιρμοι] . For mercies, see on 2 Corinthians 1:3, and compare Colossians 3:12.