9.Today is salvation come to this house. Christ, bearing testimony to Zaccheus, declares that his professions were not hypocritical. And yet he does not ascribe to the good works of Zaccheus the cause of salvation; but, as that conversion was an undoubted pledge of the divine adoption, he justly concludes from it that this house is a possessor of salvation Such, to is the import of the words for, since Zaccheus is one of the children of Abraham, he argues that his house is saved. In order that any man may be reckoned among the children of Abraham, it is necessary for him to imitate Abraham’s faith; nay, Scripture expressly bestows on faith this commendation, that it distinguishes the genuine children of Abraham from strangers. Let us therefore know that in Zaccheus faith is chiefly commended, on account of which his good works were acceptable to God. Nor is there reason to doubt that the doctrine of Christ went before the conversion of Zaccheus; and, consequently, the commencement of his salvation was, to hear Christ discoursing on the undeserved mercy of God, and on the reconciliation of men to Him, and on the redemption of the Church, and to embrace this doctrine by faith. In consequence of the Greek word οἴκος; (house) being of the masculine gender, this passage is explained in two ways. The old translator (681) has made the reference to be to Zaccheus, which I also prefer. (682) Erastians has chosen to render it, inasmuch as The House, itself is a Daughter of Abraham; (683) and although I do not disapprove of this, I think it more natural to explain it as referring to Zacche u s For, since God, when he adopts the head of a family, promises that He will be a God even to his whole house, salvation is, with propriety, extended from the head to the whole body. Now the particle καὶ (also) is emphatic; for Christ means, that Zaccheus, not less than the other Jews who haughtily detested him, is a son of Abraham And that his former life may not seem to have shut against him the gate of salvation, Christ argues from his own office, that there is nothing in this change at which any man ought to take offense, since he was sent by the Father to save those who were lost. (681) “Le translateur Latin ancien;” — “the old Latin translator.” (682) The question is, whether the antecedent to αὐτός be Ζακχαῖος or ὁ οἴκος. On the former supposition, our English version will be approved HE also (namely, Zaccheus) is a son of Abraham On the latter supposition, the translation will run thus: IT also (namely, the house) is a child of Abraham; or — carrying out the metaphor as Erasmus has done — IT also is a DAUGHTER of Abraham. — Ed (683) “Eo quod ipsu domus sit filia Abrahae .” 