1. ( :-.) 
	My little children—The
	diminutive expresses the tender affection of an aged pastor and
	spiritual father. My own dear children, that is, sons and
	daughters (see on 1 John 2:12). 
	these things— (1 John 2:12- :). My purpose in writing what I have just written is not
	that you should abuse them as giving a license to sin but, on the
	contrary, "in order that ye may not sin at all" (the Greek
	aorist, implying the absence not only of the habit, but of single
	acts of sin [ALFORD]).
	In order to "walk in the light" (1 John 1:5;
	1 John 1:7), the first step is
	confession of sin (1 John 1:9),
	the next (1 John 2:1) is that we
	should forsake all sin. The divine purpose has for its aim,
	either to prevent the commission of, or to destroy sin [BENGEL].
	And, c.—connected with
	the former Furthermore, "if any man sin," let him,
	while loathing and condemning it, not fear to go at once to God, the
	Judge, confessing it, for "we have an Advocate with Him."
	He is speaking of a BELIEVER'S
	occasional sins of infirmity through Satan's fraud and malice.
	The use of "we" immediately afterwards implies that we
	all are liable to this, though not necessarily constrained
	to sin. 
	we have an advocate—Advocacy
	is God's family blessing; other blessings He grants to good and bad
	alike, but justification, sanctification, continued intercession, and
	peace, He grants to His children alone. 
	advocate—Greek,
	"paraclete," the same term as is applied to the Holy
	Ghost, as the "other Comforter"; showing the unity of the
	Second and Third Persons of the Trinity. Christ is the Intercessor
	for us above; and, in His absence, here below the Holy Ghost
	is the other Intercessor in us. Christ's advocacy is
	inseparable from the Holy Spirit's comfort and working in us,
	as the spirit of intercessory prayer. 
	righteous—As our
	"advocate," Christ is not a mere suppliant petitioner. He
	pleads for us on the ground of justice, or righteousness,
	as well as mercy. Though He can say nothing good of us, He can
	say much for us. It is His righteousness, or obedience
	to the law, and endurance of its full penalty for us, on which He
	grounds His claim for our acquittal. The sense therefore is, "in
	that He is righteous"; in contrast to our sin ("if
	any man sin"). The Father, by raising Him from the dead,
	and setting Him at His own right, has once for all accepted Christ's
	claim for us. Therefore the accuser's charges against God's children
	are vain. "The righteousness of Christ stands on our side; for
	God's righteousness is, in Jesus Christ, ours" [LUTHER].