14. young men . . . strong—made
	so out of natural weakness, hence enabled to overcome
	"the strong man armed" through Him that is "stronger."
	Faith is the victory that overcomes the world. This term "overcome"
	is peculiarly John's, adopted from his loved Lord. It occurs sixteen
	times in the Apocalypse, six times in the First Epistle, only thrice
	in the rest of the New Testament. In order to overcome the world on
	the ground, and in the strength, of the blood of the Saviour, we must
	be willing, like Christ, to part with whatever of the world belongs
	to us: whence immediately after "ye have overcome the wicked one
	(the prince of the world)," it is added, "Love not the
	world, neither the things . . . in the world." 
	and, c.—the secret of
	the young men's strength: the Gospel word, clothed with
	living power by the Spirit who abideth permanently in them
	this is "the sword of the Spirit" wielded in prayerful
	waiting on God. Contrast the mere physical strength of young men,
	Isaiah 40:30; Isaiah 40:31.
	Oral teaching prepared these youths for the profitable use of
	the word when written. "Antichrist cannot endanger
	you (1 John 2:18), nor Satan tear
	from you the word of God." 
	the wicked one—who, as
	"prince of this world," enthrals "the world"
	(1 John 2:15-17; 1 John 5:19,
	Greek, "the wicked one"), especially the young.
	Christ came to destroy this "prince of the world."
	Believers achieve the first grand conquest over him when they pass
	from darkness to light, but afterwards they need to maintain a
	continual keeping of themselves from his assaults, looking to
	God by whom alone they are kept safe. BENGEL
	thinks John refers specially to the remarkable constancy exhibited by
	youths in Domitian's persecution. Also to the young man whom John,
	after his return from Patmos, led with gentle, loving persuasion to
	repentance. This youth had been commended to the overseers of the
	Church by John, in one of his tours of superintendency, as a
	promising disciple; he had been, therefore, carefully watched up to
	baptism. But afterwards relying too much on baptismal grace, he
	joined evil associates, and fell from step to step down, till he
	became a captain of robbers. When John, some years after, revisited
	that Church and heard of the youth's sad fall, he hastened to the
	retreat of the robbers, suffered himself to be seized and taken into
	the captain's presence. The youth, stung by conscience and the
	remembrance of former years, fled away from the venerable apostle.
	Full of love the aged father ran after him, called on him to take
	courage, and announced to him forgiveness of his sins in the name of
	Christ. The youth was recovered to the paths of Christianity, and was
	the means of inducing many of his bad associates to repent and
	believe [CLEMENT OF
	ALEXANDRIA, Who Is the
	Rich Man Who Shall Be Saved? 4.2; EUSEBIUS,
	Ecclesiastical History, 3.20; CHRYSOSTOM,
	First Exhortation to Theodore, 11].