16. all that is in the world—can
	be classed under one or other of the three; the world contains these
	and no more. 
	lust of the flesh—that
	is, the lust which has its seat and source in our lower animal
	nature. Satan tried this temptation the first on Christ:  :-, "Command this stone that it be made bread."
	Youth is especially liable to fleshly lusts. 
	lust of the eyes—the
	avenue through which outward things of the world, riches, pomp, and
	beauty, inflame us. Satan tried this temptation on Christ when he
	showed Him the kingdoms of the world in a moment. By the lust of the
	eyes David (2 Samuel 11:2) and Achan
	fell (Joshua 7:21). Compare David's
	prayer, Psalms 119:37; Job's
	resolve, Psalms 31:1; Matthew 5:28.
	The only good of worldly riches to the possessor is the beholding
	them with the eyes. Compare Matthew 5:28- :, "I must go and SEE
	it." 
	pride of life—literally,
	"arrogant assumption": vainglorious display. Pride
	was Satan's sin whereby he fell and forms the link between the two
	foes of man, the world (answering to "the lust of the
	eyes") and the devil (as "the lust of the flesh"
	is the third foe). Satan tried this temptation on Christ in setting
	Him on the temple pinnacle that, in spiritual pride and
	presumption, on the ground of His Father's care, He should
	cast Himself down. The same three foes appear in the three classes of
	soil on which the divine seed falls: the wayside hearers, the devil;
	the thorns, the world; the rocky undersoil, the flesh
	(Matthew 13:18-23; Mark 4:3-8).
	The world's awful antitrinity, the "lust of the flesh,
	the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life," similarly is
	presented in Satan's temptation of Eve: "When she saw that the
	tree was good for food, pleasant to the eyes, and a
	tree to be desired to make one wise," Mark 4:3-41.4.8- : (one manifestation of "the pride of life," the
	desire to know above what God has revealed, Mark 4:3-41.4.8- :, the pride of unsanctified knowledge). 
	of—does not spring from
	"the Father" (used in relation to the preceding "little
	children," 1 John 2:12, or
	"little sons"). He who is born of God alone turns to
	God; he who is of the world turns to the world; the sources of love
	to God and love to the world, are irreconcilably distinct.