29. The heading of the second
	division of the Epistle: "God is righteous; therefore, every
	one that doeth righteousness is born of Him." Love is the grand
	feature and principle of "righteousness" selected for
	discussion, 1 John 2:29-3.
	If ye know . . . ye
	know—distinct Greek verbs: "if ye are aware
	(are in possession of the knowledge) . . . ye discern or
	apprehend also that," c. Ye are already aware that God
	("He" includes both "the Father," of whom
	the believer is born (end of this verse, and 1 John 2:29-62.2.3- :), and "the Son," 1 John 2:1
1 John 2:23) is righteous, ye
	must necessarily, thereby, perceive also the consequence of that
	truth, namely, "that everyone that doeth righteousness (and he
	alone; literally, the righteousness such as the righteous God
	approves) is born of Him." The righteous produceth the
	righteous. We are never said to be born again of Christ,
	but of God, with whom Christ is one. HOLLAZ
	in ALFORD defines the
	righteousness of God, "It is the divine energy by whose
	power God wills and does all things which are conformable to His
	eternal law, prescribes suitable laws to His creatures, fulfils His
	promises to men, rewards the good, and punishes the ungodly." 
	doeth—"For the
	graces (virtues) are practical, and have their being in being
	produced (in being exercised); for when they have ceased to act, or
	are only about to act, they have not even being"
	[OEligCUMENIUS]. "God
	is righteous, and therefore the source of righteousness; when
	then a man doeth righteousness, we know that the source of his
	righteousness is God, that consequently he has acquired by new birth
	from God that righteousness which he had not by nature. We argue from
	his doing righteousness, to his being born of God. The
	error of Pelagians is to conclude that doing righteousness is
	a condition of becoming a child of God" [ALFORD
	most truly]. Compare Luke 7:47;
	Luke 7:50: Her much love evinced
	that her sins were already forgiven; not, were the condition
	of her sins being forgiven.