2. the church of God—He calls
	it so notwithstanding its many blots. Fanatics and sectaries vainly
	think to anticipate the final sifting of the wheat and tares ( :-). It is a dangerous temptation to think there is no
	church where there is not apparent perfect purity. He who thinks so,
	must at last separate from all others and think himself the only holy
	man in the world, or establish a peculiar sect with a few hypocrites.
	It was enough for Paul in recognizing the Corinthians as a church,
	that he saw among them evangelical doctrine, baptism, and the Lord's
	Supper" [CALVIN]. It
	was the Church of God, not of this or of that favorite leader
	[CHRYSOSTOM]. 
	at Corinth—a church at
	dissolute Corinth—what a paradox of grace! 
	sanctified—consecrated,
	or set apart as holy to God in (by union with) Christ
	Jesus. In the Greek there are no words "to them that
	are"; translate simply, "men sanctified." 
	called to be saints—rather,
	"called saints"; saints by calling: applied by Paul to all
	professing members of the Church. As "sanctified in Christ"
	implies the fountain sources of holiness, the believer's original
	sanctification in Christ (1 Corinthians 6:11;
	Hebrews 10:10; Hebrews 10:14;
	1 Peter 1:2) in the purposes of God's
	grace, so "called saints" refers to their actual call
	(Romans 8:30), and the end of that
	call that they should be holy (Romans 8:30- :). 
	with all that in every place
	call upon . . . Christ—The Epistle is intended for these also,
	as well as for the Corinthians. The true CATHOLIC
	CHURCH (a term first used
	by IGNATIUS [Epistle to
	the Smyræans, 8]): not consisting of those who call themselves
	from Paul, Cephas, or any other eminent leader (Romans 8:30- :), but of all, wherever they be, who call on Jesus as their
	Saviour in sincerity (compare Romans 8:30- :). Still a general unity of discipline and doctrine in the
	several churches is implied in 1 Corinthians 4:17;
	1 Corinthians 7:17; 1 Corinthians 7:11-16;
	1 Corinthians 7:14-33; 1 Corinthians 7:36.
	The worship due to God is here attributed to Jesus (compare Joel 2:32;
	Matthew 4:10; Acts 9:14).
	both theirs and ours—"in
	every place which is their home . . . and our home also"; this
	is added to include the Christians throughout Achaia, not residing in
	Corinth, the capital (2 Corinthians 1:1).
	Paul feels the home of his converts to be also his own. Compare a
	similar phrase in Romans 16:13
	[CONYBEARE and HOWSON].
	"Ours" refers to Paul and Sosthenes, and the Corinthians'
	home [ALFORD]. BEZA
	better explains, "Both their Lord and our Lord." All
	believers have one and the same Lord (1 Corinthians 8:6;
	Ephesians 4:5); a virtual reproof of
	the divisions of the Corinthians, as if Christ were divided (Ephesians 4:5- :).