14. follow peace with all men—with
	the brethren especially ( :-), that so the "lame" among them be not "turned
	out of the way" (Hebrews 12:13),
	and that no one of them "fail of the grace of God" (Hebrews 12:13- :). 
	holiness—a distinct
	Greek word from God's "holiness" (Hebrews 12:13- :). Translate here "sanctification." His is
	absolute holiness: our part is to put on His holiness,
	becoming "holy as He is holy," by sanctification.
	While "following peace with all men," we are not so to seek
	to please them, as to make God's will and our sanctification a
	secondary object; this latter must be our first aim. (Hebrews 12:13- :). 
	without which—Greek,
	"apart from which." 
	no man shall see the Lord—no
	man as a son; in heavenly glory (Revelation 22:3;
	Revelation 22:4). In the East, none but
	the greatest favorites are admitted to the honor of seeing the king
	(compare 2 Samuel 14:24). The Lord
	being pure and holy, none but the pure and holy shall see Him (2 Samuel 14:24- :). Without holiness in them, they could not enjoy Him who is
	holiness itself (Zechariah 14:20).
	The connection of purity with seeing the Lord, appears
	in 1 John 3:2; 1 John 3:3;
	Ephesians 5:5. Contrast Ephesians 5:5- : (compare 1 Thessalonians 4:3). In
	Matthew 24:30; Revelation 1:7,
	it is said that all shall see the Lord; but, that shall be as a
	Judge, not as their lasting portion and God, which is meant
	here. The Greek verb does not denote the mere action of
	seeing, but the seer's state of mind to which the object is
	presented: so in Matthew 5:8 they
	shall truly comprehend God [TITTMANN].
	None but the holy could appreciate the holy God, none else
	therefore shall abide in His presence. "The bad shall only see
	Him in His form as Son of man [compare Revelation 1:13;
	Revelation 1:7; Matthew 24:30;
	Acts 1:11; Acts 17:31];
	still it will be in the glory in which He shall judge, not in the
	lowliness in which He was judged. His form as God, wherein He
	is equal to the Father, without doubt the ungodly shall not see; for
	it is only 'the pure in heart who shall see God'" [AUGUSTINE].
	"He shall come to judge, who stood before a judge. He shall come
	in the form in which He was judged, that they may see Him whom they
	pierced: He who was before hidden shall come manifested in power: He,
	as Judge, shall condemn the real culprits, who was Himself falsely
	made a culprit."