23. written in heaven—enrolled
	as citizens there. All those who at the coming of "God
	the Judge of all" (which clause therefore naturally follows),
	shall be found "written in heaven," that is, in the
	Lamb's book of life ( :-). Though still fighting the good fight on earth, still, in
	respect to your destiny, and present life of faith which
	substantiates things hoped for, ye are already members of the
	heavenly citizenship. "We are one citizenship with angels; to
	which it is said in the psalm, Glorious things are spoken of thee,
	thou city of God" [AUGUSTINE].
	I think ALFORD wrong in
	restricting "the Church of the first-born written in
	heaven," to those militant on earth; it is rather, all
	those who at the Judge's coming shall be found written in
	heaven (the true patent of heavenly nobility; contrast "written
	in the earth," Jeremiah 17:13,
	and Esau's profane sale of his birthright, Jeremiah 17:13- :); these all, from the beginning to the end of the world,
	forming one Church to which every believer is already come.
	The first-born of Israel were "written" in a roll
	(Numbers 3:40). 
	the spirits of just men made
	perfect—at the resurrection, when the "JUDGE"
	shall appear, and believers' bliss shall be consummated by the union
	of the glorified body with the spirit; the great hope
	of the New Testament (Romans 8:20-23;
	1 Thessalonians 4:16). The place of this
	clause after "the JUDGE
	OF ALL," is my objection to BENGEL
	and ALFORD'S explanation,
	the souls of the just in their separate state perfected.
	Compare Notes, see on 1 Thessalonians 4:16- :, to which he refers here, and which I think confirms my
	view; those heretofore spirits, but now to be perfected by
	being clothed upon with the body. Still the phrase, "spirits
	of just men made perfect," not merely "just men made
	perfect," may favor the reference to the happy spirits in their
	separate state. The Greek is not "the perfected
	spirits," but "the spirits of the perfected just."
	In no other passage are the just said to be perfected
	before the resurrection, and the completion of the full number of the
	elect (Revelation 6:11); I think,
	therefore, "spirits of the just," may here be used to
	express the just whose predominant element in their perfected
	state shall be spirit. So spirit and spirits are
	used of a man or men in the body, under the influence of
	the spirit, the opposite of flesh (Revelation 6:11- :). The resurrection bodies of the saints shall be bodies
	in which the spirit shall altogether preponderate over the
	animal soul (see on Revelation 6:11- :).