24. new—not the usual term
	(kaine) applied to the Christian covenant ( :-), which would mean new as different from, and
	superseding the old; but Greek, "nea,"
	"recent," "lately established," having the
	"freshness of youth," as opposed to age. The mention of
	Jesus, the Perfecter of our faith ( :-), and Himself perfected through sufferings and death, in His
	resurrection and ascension (Hebrews 2:10;
	Hebrews 5:9), is naturally suggested
	by the mention of "the just made perfect" at their
	resurrection (compare Hebrews 7:22).
	Paul uses "Jesus," dwelling here on Him as the Person
	realized as our loving friend, not merely in His official
	character as the Christ.
and to the blood of
	sprinkling—here enumerated as distinct from "Jesus."
	BENGEL reasonably argues
	as follows: His blood was entirely "poured out" of His body
	by the various ways in which it was shed, His bloody sweat, the crown
	of thorns, the scourging, the nails, and after death the spear, just
	as the blood was entirely poured out and extravasated from the animal
	sacrifices of the law. It was incorruptible (1 Peter 1:18;
	1 Peter 1:19). No Scripture states it
	was again put into the Lord's body. At His ascension, as our great
	High Priest, He entered the heavenly holiest place "BY
	His own blood" (not after shedding His blood, nor with
	the blood in His body, but), carrying it separately from his body
	(compare the type, Hebrews 9:7;
	Hebrews 9:12; Hebrews 9:25;
	Hebrews 13:11). Paul does not say, by
	the efficacy of His blood, but, "by His own proper blood"
	(Hebrews 9:12); not MATERIAL
	blood, but "the blood of Him who, through the eternal Spirit,
	offered Himself without spot unto God" (Hebrews 9:12- :). So in Hebrews 10:29,
	the Son of God and the blood of the covenant wherewith he
	(the professor) was sanctified, are mentioned separately. Also
	in Hebrews 13:12; Hebrews 13:20;
	also compare Hebrews 10:19; Hebrews 10:21.
	So in the Lord's Supper (1 Corinthians 10:16;
	1 Corinthians 11:24-26), the body
	and blood are separately represented. The blood itself,
	therefore, continues still in heaven before God, the perpetual ransom
	price of "the eternal covenant" (1 Corinthians 11:24-46.11.26- :). Once for all Christ sprinkled the blood peculiarly for us
	at His ascension (Hebrews 9:12).
	But it is called "the blood of sprinkling," on account also
	of its continued use in heaven, and in the consciences of the saints
	on earth (Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 10:22;
	Isaiah 52:15). This sprinkling is
	analogous to the sprinkled blood of the Passover. Compare Isaiah 52:15- :, "In the midst of the throne, a Lamb as it had been
	slain." His glorified body does not require meat, nor the
	circulation of the blood. His blood introduced into heaven took away
	the dragon's right to accuse. Thus Rome's theory of concomitancy
	of the blood with the body, the excuse for giving only the bread to
	the laity, falls to the ground. The mention of "the blood of
	sprinkling" naturally follows the mention of the "covenant,"
	which could not be consecrated without blood (Hebrews 9:18;
	Hebrews 9:22). 
	speaketh better things than
	that of Abel—namely, than the sprinkling (the best manuscripts
	read the article masculine, which refers to "sprinkling,"
	not to "blood," which last is neuter) of blood by Abel in
	his sacrifice spake. This comparison between two things of the
	same kind (namely, Christ's sacrifice, and Abel's sacrifice) is
	more natural, than between two things different in kind and in
	results (namely, Christ's sacrifice, and Abel's own blood
	[ALFORD], which was not a
	sacrifice at all); compare Hebrews 11:4;
	Genesis 4:4. This accords with the
	whole tenor of the Epistle, and of this passage in particular (Genesis 4:4- :), which is to show the superiority of Christ's sacrifice
	and the new covenant, to the Old Testament sacrifices (of which
	Abel's is the first recorded; it, moreover, was testified to by God
	as acceptable to Him above Cain's), compare Genesis 4:4- :. The word "better" implies superiority to
	something that is good: but Abel's own blood was not at all good for
	the purpose for which Christ's blood was efficacious; nay, it cried
	for vengeance. So ARCHBISHOP
	MAGEE, HAMMOND,
	and KNATCHBULL. BENGEL
	takes "the blood of Abel" as put for all the blood
	shed on earth crying for vengeance, and greatly increasing the other
	cries raised by sin in the world; counteracted by the blood of Christ
	calmly speaking in heaven for us, and from heaven to us. I prefer
	MAGEE'S view. Be this as
	it may, to deny that Christ's atonement is truly a propitiation,
	overthrows Christ's priesthood, makes the sacrifices of Moses' law an
	unmeaning mummery, and represents Cain's sacrifice as good as that of
	Abel.