I charge thee therefore before God - See the notes on 1 Timothy 5:21.Who shall judge the quick and the dead - That is, the Lord Jesus; for he is to be the judge of men; Matthew 25:31-46; 2 Corinthians 5:10. The word “quick” means “living” (See the Acts 10:42 note; Ephesians 2:1 note); and the idea is, that he would be alike the judge of all who were alive when he should come, and of all who had died; see the notes on 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17. In view of the fact that all, whether preachers or hearers, must give up their account to the final Judge, Paul charges Timothy to be faithful; and what is there which will more conduce to fidelity in the discharge of duty, than the thought that we must soon give up a solemn account of the manner in which we have performed it?At his appearing - That is, the judgment shall then take place. This must refer to a judgment yet to take place, for the Lord Jesus has not yet “appeared” the second time to men; and, if this be so, then there is to be a resurrection of the dead. On the meaning of the word rendered “appearing,” see the notes on 2 Thessalonians 2:8. It is there rendered “brighteness”; compare 1Ti 6:14; 2 Timothy 1:10; Titus 2:13.And his kingdom - Or, at the setting up of his kingdom. The idea of his reigning, or setting up his kingdom, is not unfrequently associated with the idea of his cominG; see Matthew 16:28. The meaning is, that, at his second advent, the extent and majesty of his kingdom will be fully displayed. It will be seen that he has control over the elements, over the graves of the dead, and over all the living. It will be seen that the earth and the heavens are under his sway, and that all things there acknowledge him as their sovereign Lord. In order to meet the full force of the language used by Paul here, it is not necessary to suppose that he will set up a visible kingdom on the earth, but only that there will be an illustrious display of himself as a king, and of the extent and majesty of the empire over which he presides: compare the Romans 14:11 note; Philippians 2:10 note.