1. Instead of a formal, John
	adopts a virtual address (compare  :-). To wish joy to the reader was the ancient customary
	address. The sentence begun in  :- is broken off by the parenthetic  :-, and is resumed at 1 John 1:3
	with the repetition of some words from 1 John 1:3- :. 
	That which was—not
	"began to be," but was essentially (Greek,
	"een," not "egeneto") before He was
	manifested (1 John 1:2);
	answering to "Him that is from the beginning" (1 John 1:2- :); so John's Gospel, 1 John 1:2- :, "In the beginning was the Word." 1 John 1:2- :, "I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning,
	or ever the earth was." 
	we—apostles. 
	heard . . . seen . . . looked
	upon . . . handled—a series rising in gradation. Seeing
	is a more convincing proof than hearing of; handling,
	than even seeing. "Have heard . . . have
	seen" (perfect tenses), as a possession still abiding
	with us; but in Greek (not as English Version "have,"
	but simply) "looked upon" (not perfect tense, as of a
	continuing thing, but aorist, past time) while Christ
	the incarnate Word was still with us. "Seen," namely, His
	glory, as revealed in the Transfiguration and in His miracles; and
	His passion and death in a real body of flesh and blood. "Looked
	upon" as a wondrous spectacle steadfastly, deeply,
	contemplatively; so the Greek. Appropriate to John's
	contemplative character. 
	hands . . . handled—Thomas
	and the other disciples on distinct occasions after the resurrection.
	John himself had leaned on Jesus' breast at the last supper. Contrast
	the wisest of the heathen feeling after (the same Greek
	as here; groping after WITH
	THE HANDS") if haply they might find God (see 1 John 1:2- :). This proves against Socinians he is here speaking of the
	personal incarnate Word, not of Christ's teaching from
	the beginning of His official life. 
	of—"concerning";
	following "heard." "Heard" is the verb most
	applying to the purpose of the Epistle, namely the truth which John
	had heard concerning the Word of life, that is, (Christ) the
	Word who is the life. "Heard," namely, from
	Christ Himself, including all Christ's teachings about Himself.
	Therefore he puts "of," or "concerning," before
	"the word of life," which is inapplicable to any of the
	verbs except "heard"; also "heard" is the only
	one of the verbs which he resumes at 1 John 1:2- :.