Thy works and. Omit. Tribulation [θλιψιν] . See on Matthew 13:21. Referring to the persecutions of Jewish and heathen oppressors. See on Smyrna, verse 8. Poverty [πτωχειαν] . Because, like all the other early Christian churches, the majority of its members were of the poorer classes, and also, perhaps, with reference to their robbery by persecutors. See on poor, Matthew 5:3. Rich. In faith and grace. Compare James 2:6, James 2:7; 1 Timothy 6:17, 1 Timothy 6:18; Luke 12:21; Matthew 19:21. Blasphemy [βλασφημιαν] . See on Mark 7:22. Not primarily direct blasphemy against God, but reviling at believers. Jews. Literally. Not Christians, as in Philippians 3:3; Romans 2:28, Romans 2:29. Actually Jews by birth, but not spiritually. The title is not given them by the Spirit, nor by the seer, but by themselves; and none would use that title except such as were Jews by birth and by religion. The enmity of the Jews against Christians is a familiar fact to all readers of the book of Acts; and it is a matter of history that their malignity was especially displayed toward the Church of Smyrna. In the circular letter addressed by the Church of Smyrna to the churches in the Christian world, it is related that Jews joined with heathen in clamoring that Polycarp should be cast to the lions or burned alive, and were foremost wJv eqov aujtoiv (as was their wont) in bringing logs for the pile, and in the endeavor to prevent the remains of the martyr from being delivered to his Christian associates for burial. Synagogue of Satan. For synagogue, see on assembly, James 2:2, the only passage in which the word is used for a Christian assembly. This fact goes to support the literal explanation of the term Jews. For Satan, see on Luke 10:18. For John's use of the expression the Jews, see on John 1:19. The use of the word here in an honorable sense, so different from John's custom, has been urged against his authorship of Revelation. But John here only quotes the word, and, further, employs it without the article.