Fear not [υηδεν φοβου] . Lit., fear nothing. For the verb, see on Luke 1:50. Behold [ιδου δη] . The particle dh for certain, which is not rendered, gives a quality of assurance to the prediction. The Devil [διαβολος] . See on Matthew 4:1. The persecution of the Christians is thus traced to the direct agency of Satan, and not to the offended passions or prejudices of men. Trench observes : "There is nothing more remarkable in the records which have come down to us of the early persecutions, than the sense which the confessors and martyrs and those who afterwards narrate their sufferings and their triumphs entertain and utter, that these great fights of affliction through which they were called to pass, were the immediate work of the Devil." Shall cast [μελλει βαλειν] . Rev., rightly, is about to cast. Prison [φυλακην] . See on Acts 5:21. May be tried [πειρασθητε] . Tempted. See on 1 Peter 1:7. Tribulation ten days [θλιψιν ημερων δεκα] . Lit., a tribulation of ten days. Be thou [γινον] . The exact force of the word cannot be given by a corresponding word in English. Lit., "become thou." There is to be a succession of trials demanding an increase in the power and a variety in the direction of faith. With reference to these trials, faithfulness is to be not only existent but becoming, developing with new strength and into new applications. Unto death [αχρι θανατου] . Not faithful until the time of death, but faithful up to a measure which will endure death for Christ 's sake. "It is an intensive, not an extensive term." A crown [τον στεφανον] . Rev., rightly, "the crown." See on 1 Peter 5:4; James 1:12. Crown is used with a variety of words : crown of righteousness (2 Timothy 4:8); glory (1 Peter 5:4); beauty Isaiah 61:3, Sept., A. V., glory); pride (Isaiah 28:1); rejoicing (1 Thessalonians 2:19). Of life [της ζωης] . The full phrase is the crown of the life : i e., the crown which consists in life eternal. The image is not taken from the Greek games, although Smyrna contained a temple of Olympian Jupiter, and Olympian games were celebrated there. It is the diadem of royalty rather than the garland of victory, though more commonly used in the latter sense. It is not likely that John would use an image from the games, since there was the most violent prejudice against them on the part of Jewish Christians; a prejudice which, on occasions of their celebration, provoked the special ferocity of the pagans against what they regarded as the unpatriotic and unsocial character of Christ 's disciples. It was at the demand of the people assembled in the stadium that Polycarp was given up to death. Moreover, it is doubtful whether any symbol in Apoc. is taken from heathenism. The imagery is Jewish.