 17. ] The connexion between the prohibition and its reason is difficult, and has been very variously given. See a complete discussion of the exegetical literature of the passage in Stier, vi. 640 667. The sense seems to me to be connected with some gesture of the nature alluded to in the gloss above quoted, but indicating that she believed she had now gotten him again, never to be parted from Him. This gesture He reproves as unsuited to the time, and the nature of His present appearance. ‘Do not thus for I am not yet restored finally to you in the body I have yet to ascend to the Father.’ This implies in the background  another and truer touching , when He should have ascended to the Father. “Vis me tangere, Maria; vis omnino frui amicitia mea: id nunc non licet, quum tantum οἰκονομικῶς , ad fidem vestram roborandam me do conspiciendum. At ubi ad Patrem ascendero, veniet tempus quum frui mea amicitia perfectissime poteris, non terrestri contactu, sed tali qui loco illi, i.e. cœlo conveniat,  spirituali .” Grotius. With this my view nearly agrees, not confining (as indeed neither does he) the latter enjoyment to  in cœlo , but understanding it to have begun here below. So Leo the Great, Serm. lxxiv. (alli [252] . lxxii.) 4, p. 295: “Hinc illud est quod post resurrectionem suam Dominus Mariæ Magdalenæ personam Ecclesiæ gerenti cum ad contactum ipsius properaret accedere dicit;  Noli me tangere, nondum enim ascendi ad Patrem meum : hoc est, nolo ut ad me corporaliter venias, nec ut me sensu carnis agnoscas: ad sublimiora te differo, majora tibi præparo: cum ad Patrem ascendero, tunc me perfectius veriusque palpabis, apprehensura quod non tangis, et creditura quod non cernis.”
	 [252] alli = some cursive mss.
	The two renderings of  ἅπτου to be guarded against are, (1) a laying hold of to  retain (= μή με κράτει ), (2) a laying hold of to  worship ( ἐκράτησαν αὐτοῦ τοὺς πόδας Mat 28:9 ). Neither of these senses can be extracted from the word without forcing.
	 πορεύου δέ ] Stier remarks that this was a far greater honour than that which had been forbidden her; just as the handling of the Lord allowed to Thomas was a far less thing than the not seeing and yet believing.
	 τοὺς ἀδελφ  .   μου ] By this term He testifies that He has not put off his humanity, nor his love for his own, in his resurrection state: see Hebrews 2:11 .
	 πατ  .   μου κ  .   πατ  .   ὑμῶν ] This distinction,  μου κ  .   ὑμῶν  , when ἡμῶν  seems so likely to have been said, has been observed by all Commentators of any depth, as indicating an  essential difference in the relations . Cyr.-jer [253] (Stier), ἄλλως ἐμοῦ , κατὰ φύσιν · ἄλλως ὑμῶν , κατὰ θέσιν . Aug [254] : “Non ait, Patrem  nostrum; aliter ergo meum, aliter vestrum; natura meum, gratia vestrum. Et, Deum meum et Deum vestrum. Neque hic dixit Deum  nostrum; ergo et hic aliter meum, aliter vestrum. Deum meum, sub quo et Ego sum homo; Deum vestrum, inter quos et Ipsum Mediator sum.” Tract. cxxi.3.
	 [253]-jer. Cyril, Bp. of Jerusalem, 348 386
	 [254]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	The  μου is the ground and source of the  ὑμῶν  , therefore the Lord so speaks. Stier, vii. 32, edn. 2. “Nos, per Illum: Ille, singularissime et primo.” Bengel. But the θεόν  μου indicates that He is still man: cf. Eph 1:3 and passim: 1 Corinthians 3:23 ; and especially Hebrews 2:11 . In the ἀναβαίνω is included His temporary stay which He was now making with them  I am ascending q. d. ‘I am on my way.’