 22. ] To understand this verse as the outpouring of the Spirit, the fulfilment of the promise of the Comforter, is against all consistency, and most against John himself: see ch. John 16:7 , and ch. John 7:39 . To understand it rightly, we have merely to recur to that great key to the meaning of so many dark passages of Scripture, the manifold and gradual unfolding of promise and prophecy in their fulfilment. The presence of the Lord among them  now was a slight and temporary fulfilment of His promise of returning to them; and so the imparting of the Spirit  now , was a symbol and foretaste of that which they should receive at Pentecost: just as, to mount a step higher,  that itself , in its present abiding with us, is but the first-fruits and pledge (Romans 8:23 ; 2Co 1:22 ) of the fulness which we shall hereafter inherit. “The relation of this saying to the effusion of the Spirit is the same which chap. 3 bears to Baptism, chap. 6 to the Lord’s Supper, chap. Joh 17:1 to the Ascension, &c.” (Luthardt.) Further: this giving of the Spirit was not the Spirit’s personal imparting of Himself to them, but only a partial instilling of His influence. He proceeds forth in His work (as in His essence) from the Father and the Son: this breathing of His influence was an imparting of Him from the Son in His risen Body, but that Body had not yet been received up, without which union of the God-manhood of the Son to the glory of the Father the Holy Spirit would not come.
	 What was now conferred is plain from our Joh 20:23 by which authority to discern spirits and pronounce on them is re-assured (see Mat 18:18 ) and from Luke 24:45 , by which a discerning of the mind of the Spirit is given to them. We find instances of both these gifts being exercised by Peter in Acts 1:0 , in his assertion of the sense of Scripture, and his judgment of Judas. Both these however were only temporary and imperfect.
	That  no formal gifts of Apostleship were now formally conferred, is plain by the absence of Thomas , who in that case would be no apostle in the same sense in which the rest were.
	 ἐνεφύσησεν (see reff.) was the word expressing the act of God in the original infusion of the spirit of life into man. This act is now by God incarnate repeated, sacramentally (see λάβετε , Matthew 26:26 [256] ), representing the infusion of the new life, of which He is become by His glorified Humanity the source to his members: see Job 33:4 ; Psa 33:6 ; 1 Corinthians 15:45 .
	 [256] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .