Be patient [μακροθυμησατε] . From makrov, long, and qumov, soul or spirit but with the sense of strong passion, stronger even than ojrgh, anger, as is maintained by Schmidt (" Synonymik "), who describes qumov as a tumultuous welling of the whole spirit; a mighty emotion which seizes and moves the whole inner man. Hence the restraint implied in, akroqumia is most correctly expressed by long - suffering, which is its usual rendering in the New Testament. It is a patient holding out under trial; a long - protracted restraint of the soul from yielding to passion, especially the passion of anger. In the New Testament the word and its cognates are sometimes rendered by patient or patience, which conceals the distinction from uJpomonh, uniformly rendered patience, and signifying persistent endurance, whether in action or suffering. As Trench observes, "uJpomonh is perseverantia and patientia both in one." Thus Bishop Ellicott : "The brave patience with which the Christian contends against the various hindrances, persecutions, and temptations that befall him in his conflict with the inward and outward world." 'Upomonh contains an element of manliness Thus Plato joins it with the adverb ajndrikwv, in a manly way, and contrasts it with ajnandrwv, unmanly, cowardly. roqumia is exercised toward persons; uJpomonh, toward things. The former is ascribed to God as an attribute (Luke 18:7; 1 Peter 3:20; 2 Peter 3:9, 2 Peter 3:15), the latter never; for the God of patience (Romans 14:5) is the God who imparts patience to his children. "There can be no resistance to God nor burden upon him, the Almighty, from things. Therefore uJpomonh cannot find place in him" (Trench). Rev. retains A. V., be patient. The thought links itself naturally with that in the preceding verse : the righteous doth not resist. Therefore. Since things are so. Referring to the condition of things described in the previous passage. Brethren. In contrast with the rich just addressed. Waiteth [εκδεχεται] . With expectation. Compare Matthew 13:30; Mark 4:27. The early and latter rain [υετον πρωιμοα και οψιμον] . Both adjectives only here in New Testament. 'Ueton, rain, is rejected by all the best texts. The early rain fell in October, November, and December, and extended into January and February. These rains do not come suddenly, but by degrees, so that the farmer can sow his wheat or barley. The rains are mostly from the west or southwest (Luke 12:54), continuing two or three days at a time, and falling mostly in the night. Then the wind shifts to the north or east, and fine weather ensues (Proverbs 25:23). The latter rains, which are much lighter, fall in March and April. Rain in harvest was regarded as a miracle (1 Samuel 12:16-18). See Introduction, on James' local allusions.