 We did not follow  (ουκ εξακολουθησαντες). First aorist active participle of εξακολουθεω, late compound verb, to follow out (Polybius, Plutarch, LXX, papyri, inscriptions as of death following for any Gentile in the temple violating the barrier), with emphatic negative ουκ, "not having followed." See also 2 Peter 2:2 for this verb.Cunningly devised fables  (σεσοφισμενοις μυθοις). Associative instrumental case of μυθος (old term for word, narrative, story, fiction, fable, falsehood). In N.T. only here and the Pastoral Epistles (1 Timothy 1:4, etc.). Perfect passive participle of σοφιζω, old word (from σοφος), only twice in N.T., in causative sense to make wise (2 Timothy 3:15), to play the sophist, to invent cleverly (here) and so also in the old writers and in the papyri. Some of the false teachers apparently taught that the Gospel miracles were only allegories and not facts (Bigg). Cf. 2 Peter 2:3 for "feigned words."When we made known unto you  (εγνωρισαμεν υμιν). First aorist active indicative of γνωριζω, to make known unto you. Possibly by Peter himself.The power and coming  (την δυναμιν κα παρουσιαν). These words can refer (Chase) to the Incarnation, just as is true of επιφανεια in 2 Timothy 1:10 (second coming in 1 Timothy 6:14), and is true of παρουσια (2 Corinthians 7:6 of Titus). But elsewhere in the N.T. παρουσια (technical term in the papyri for the coming of a king or other high dignitary), when used of Christ, refers to his second coming (2 Peter 3:4; 2 Peter 3:12).But we were eye-witnesses  (αλλ' εποπτα γενηθεντες). First aorist passive participle of γινομα, "but having become eye-witnesses." Εποπτα, old word (from εποπτω like εποπτευω in 1 Peter 2:12; 1 Peter 3:2), used of those who attained the third or highest degree of initiates in the Eleusinian mysteries (common in the inscriptions). Cf. αυτοπτης in Luke 1:2.Of his majesty  (της εκεινου μεγαλειοτητος). Late and rare word (LXX and papyri) from μεγαλειος (Acts 2:11), in N.T. only here, Luke 9:43 (of God); Acts 19:27 (of Artemis). Peter clearly felt that he and James and John were lifted to the highest stage of initiation at the Transfiguration of Christ. Emphatic εκεινου as in 2 Timothy 2:26. 