11. And when they were come into the
	house—not the stable; for as soon as Bethlehem was emptied of
	its strangers, they would have no difficulty in finding a
	dwelling-house. 
	they saw—The received
	text has "found"; but here our translators rightly depart
	from it, for it has no authority. 
	the young child with Mary his
	mother—The blessed Babe is naturally mentioned first, then the
	mother; but Joseph, though doubtless present, is not noticed, as
	being but the head of the house. 
	and fell down and worshipped
	him—Clearly this was no civil homage to a petty Jewish king,
	whom these star-guided strangers came so far, and inquired so
	eagerly, and rejoiced with such exceeding joy, to pay, but a lofty
	spiritual homage. The next clause confirms this. 
	and when they had opened
	their treasures they presented—rather, "offered." 
	unto him gifts—This
	expression, used frequently in the Old Testament of the oblations
	presented to God, is in the New Testament employed seven times, and
	always in a religious sense of offerings to God. Beyond
	doubt, therefore, we are to understand the presentation of these
	gifts by the Magi as a religious offering.
gold, frankincense, and
	myrrh—Visits were seldom paid to sovereigns without a present
	(1 Kings 10:2, c. compare Psalms 72:10;
	Psalms 72:11; Psalms 72:15;
	Isaiah 60:3; Isaiah 60:6).
	"Frankincense" was an aromatic used in sacrificial
	offerings; "myrrh" was used in perfuming ointments. These,
	with the "gold" which they presented, seem to show that the
	offerers were persons in affluent circumstances. That the gold was
	presented to the infant King in token of His royalty; the
	frankincense in token of His divinity, and the myrrh, of His
	sufferings; or that they were designed to express His divine and
	human natures; or that the prophetical, priestly, and kingly offices
	of Christ are to be seen in these gifts; or that they were the
	offerings of three individuals respectively, each of them kings, the
	very names of whom tradition has handed down—all these are, at the
	best, precarious suppositions. But that the feelings of these devout
	givers are to be seen in the richness of their gifts, and that the
	gold, at least, would be highly serviceable to the parents of the
	blessed Babe in their unexpected journey to Egypt and stay there—that
	much at least admits of no dispute.