23. And he came and dwelt in a city
	called Nazareth—a small town in Lower Galilee, lying in the
	territory of the tribe of Zebulun, and about equally distant from the
	Mediterranean Sea on the west and the Sea of Galilee on the east.
	Note—If, from Luke 2:39, one
	would conclude that the parents of Jesus brought Him straight back to
	Nazareth after His presentation in the temple—as if there had been
	no visit of the Magi, no flight to Egypt, no stay there, and no
	purpose on returning to settle again at Bethlehem—one might, from
	our Evangelist's way of speaking here, equally conclude that the
	parents of our Lord had never been at Nazareth until now. Did we know
	exactly the sources from which the matter of each of the Gospels was
	drawn up, or the mode in which these were used, this apparent
	discrepancy would probably disappear at once. In neither case is
	there any inaccuracy. At the same time it is difficult, with these
	facts before us, to conceive that either of these two Evangelists
	wrote his Gospel with that of the other before him—though many
	think this a precarious inference. 
	that it might be fulfilled
	which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a
	Nazarene—better, perhaps, "Nazarene." The best
	explanation of the origin of this name appears to be that which
	traces it to the word netzer in Luke 2:39- : —the small twig, sprout, or sucker, which
	the prophet there says, "shall come forth from the stem (or
	rather, 'stump') of Jesse, the branch which should fructify from his
	roots." The little town of Nazareth, mentioned neither in the
	Old Testament nor in JOSEPHUS,
	was probably so called from its insignificance: a weak twig in
	contrast to a stately tree; and a special contempt seemed to rest
	upon it—"Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" (Luke 2:39- :) —over and above the general contempt in which all Galilee
	was held, from the number of Gentiles that settled in the upper
	territories of it, and, in the estimation of the Jews, debased it.
	Thus, in the providential arrangement by which our Lord was brought
	up at the insignificant and opprobrious town called Nazareth,
	there was involved, first, a local humiliation; next, an allusion to
	Isaiah's prediction of His lowly, twig-like upspringing from the
	branchless, dried-up stump of Jesse; and yet further, a standing
	memorial of that humiliation which "the prophets," in a
	number of the most striking predictions, had attached to the Messiah.