 9. ] Who Eutychus was, is quite uncertain. The occurrence of the name as belonging to slaves and freedmen (Rosenm. and Heinrichs, from inscriptions), determines nothing.
	 ἐπὶ τῆς θυρίδος ]  On the window-seat . The windows in the East were (and are) without glass, and with or without shutters.
	 καταφερόμενος ὕπν .] Wetstein gives many instances of the use of καταφέρομαι , either absolute, or with εἰς ὕπνον , signifying ‘  to be oppressed with, borne down towards, sleep ’. Thus Aristotle, de somn. et vig [103] iii. p. 466. b. 31, ed. Bekk.: τὰ ὑπνωτικὰ … πάντα … καρηβαρίαν … ποιεῖ … καὶ  καταφερόμενοι καὶ νυστάζοντες τοῦτο δοκοῦσιν πάσχειν , καὶ ἀδυνατοῦσιν αἴρειν τὴν κεφαλὴν καὶ τὰ βλέφαρα : and Diod. Sic. iii. 57,  κατενεχθεῖσαν εἰς ὕπνον ἰδεῖν ὄψιν .
	 [103] Vig  ilius of Thapsus , 484 3
	I believe the word is used here and below  in the same sense , not, as usually interpreted, here of the effect of sleep, and below of  the fall caused by the sleep. It implies that relaxation of the system, and collapse of the muscular power, which is more or less indicated by our expressions ‘  falling asleep,’ ‘  dropping asleep.’ This effect is  being produced when the first participle is used, which is therefore  imperfect , but as Paul was going on long discoursing, took  complete possession of him , and, having been  overpowered, entirely relaxed in consequence of the sleep , he  fell .
	In the  ἤρθη νεκρός here, there is a  direct assertion , which can hardly be evaded by explaining it, ‘  was taken up for dead ,’ as De Wette, Olsh.; or by saying that it expresses the  judgment of those who took him up , as Meyer. It seems to me, that the supposition of a mere suspended animation is as absurd here as in the miracle of Jairus’s daughter, Luke 8:41-56 . Let us take the narrative as it stands. The youth falls, and is taken up dead: so much is plainly asserted. (First, let it be remembered that Luke, a physician, was present, who could have at once pronounced on the fact.) Paul, not a physician, but as Apostle, gifted, not with medical discernment, but with miraculous power, goes down to him, falls on him and embraces him, a strange proceeding for one bent on discovering suspended animation, but not so for one who bore in mind the action of Elijah ( 1Ki 17:21 ) and Elisha ( 2Ki 4:34 ), each time over a  dead body , and  having done this, not before , bids them not to be troubled, for  his life was in him . I would ask any unbiassed reader, taking these details into consideration, which of the two is the natural interpretation, and whether there can be any reasonable doubt that  the intent of Luke is to relate a miracle of raising the dead , and that he mentions the falling on and embracing him as the outward significant means taken by the Apostle to that end?