10. Translate, "Unto
	the dispensation of the fulness of the times," that is, "which
	He purposed in Himself" ( :-) with a view to the economy of (the gracious
	administration belonging to) the fulness of the times (Greek,
	"fit times," "seasons"). More comprehensive than
	"the fulness of the time" ( :-). The whole of the Gospel times (plural) is meant,
	with the benefits to the Church dispensed in them severally
	and successively. Compare "the ages to come" ( :-). "The ends of the ages" (Greek,  :-); "the times (same Greek as here, 'the
	seasons,' or 'fitly appointed times') of the Gentiles" ( :-); "the seasons which the Father hath put in His own
	power" (Acts 1:7); "the
	times of restitution of all things which God hath spoken by the
	prophets since the world began" (Acts 3:20;
	Acts 3:21). The coming of Jesus at
	the first advent, "in the fulness of time," was one
	of these "times." The descent of the Holy Ghost, "when
	Pentecost was fully come" (Acts 3:21- :), was another. The testimony given by the apostles to Him "in
	due time" ("in its own seasons," Greek) (Acts 3:21- :) was another. The conversion of the Jews "when the times
	of the Gentiles are fulfilled," the second coming of Christ, the
	"restitution of all things," the millennial kingdom, the
	new heaven and earth, shall be severally instances of "the
	dispensation of the fulness of the times," that is, "the
	dispensation of" the Gospel events and benefits belonging to
	their respective "times," when severally filled up or
	completed. God the Father, according to His own good pleasure and
	purpose, is the Dispenser both of the Gospel benefits and of their
	several fitting times (Acts 1:7). 
	gather together in one—Greek,
	"sum up under one head"; "recapitulate." The
	"good pleasure which He purposed," was "to sum up all
	things (Greek, 'THE
	whole range of things') in Christ (Greek, 'the Christ,' that
	is, His Christ)" [ALFORD].
	God's purpose is to sum up the whole creation in Christ, the Head of
	angels, with whom He is linked by His invisible nature, and of men
	with whom He is linked by His humanity; of Jews and Gentiles; of the
	living and the dead (Ephesians 3:15);
	of animate and inanimate creation. Sin has disarranged the creature's
	relation of subordination to God. God means to gather up all together
	in Christ; or as Colossians 1:20 says,
	"By Him to reconcile all things unto Himself, whether things in
	earth or things in heaven." ALFORD
	well says, "The Church of which the apostle here mainly treats,
	is subordinated to Him in the highest degree of conscious and joyful
	union; those who are not His spiritually, in mere subjugation, yet
	consciously; the inferior tribes of creation unconsciously; but
	objectively, all are summed up in Him."