 Having tarried after this yet many days  (ετ προσμεινας ημερας ικανας). First aorist (constative) active participle of προσμενω, old verb, to remain besides (προς as in 1 Timothy 1:3) and that idea is expressed also in ετ (yet). The accusative is extent of time. On Luke's frequent use of ικανος see Acts 8:11. It is not certain that this period of "considerable days" which followed the trial before Gallio is included in the year and six months of verse Acts 18:11 or is in addition to it which is most likely. Vindicated as Paul was, there was no reason for haste in leaving, though he usually left after such a crisis was passed.Took his leave  (αποταξαμενος). First aorist middle (direct), old verb, to separate oneself, to bid farewell (Vulgate valefacio), as in verse Acts 18:21; Mark 6:46.Sailed thence  (εξεπλε). Imperfect active of εκπλεω, old and common verb, inchoative imperfect, started to sail. Only Priscilla and Aquila are mentioned as his companions though others may have been in the party.Having shorn his head  (κειραμενος την κεφαλην). First aorist middle (causative) of κειρω, old verb to shear (sheep) and the hair as also in 1 Corinthians 11:6. The participle is masculine and so cannot refer to Priscilla. Aquila comes next to the participle, but since mention of Priscilla and Aquila is parenthetical and the two other participles (προσμεινασ, αποταξαμενος) refer to Paul it seems clear that this one does also.For he had a vow  (ειχεν γαρ ευχην). Imperfect active showing the continuance of the vow up till this time in Cenchreae, the port of Corinth when it expired. It was not a Nazarite vow which could be absolved only in Jerusalem. It is possible that the hair was only polled or trimmed, cut shorter, not "shaved" (ξυραω as in Acts 21:24) for there is a distinction as both verbs are contrasted in 1 Corinthians 11:6 (κειρασθα η ξυρασθα). It is not clear what sort of a vow Paul had taken nor why he took it. It may have been a thank offering for the outcome at Corinth (Hackett). Paul as a Jew kept up his observance of the ceremonial law, but refused to impose it on the Gentiles. 