 11 16 .]  Lamentation of the merchants .  And the merchants of the earth weep and lament (the construction passes into the graphic present, but resumes the future again below, Revelation 18:15 , in speaking of the same thing)  over her, because no one any longer buys their cargo (reff.: so Eustath. in Wetst.: φόρτος νηός , ὃ καὶ γόμος . The description which follows is perhaps drawn, in its poetic and descriptive features, from the relation of Rome to the world which then was, rather than from its relation at the future time depicted in the prophecy. But it must not for a moment be denied, that the character of this lamentation throws a shade of obscurity over the interpretation, otherwise so plain from the explanation given in ch. 17 ult. The difficulty is however not confined to the application of the prophecy to Rome papal, but extends over the application of it to Rome  at all , which last is determined for us by the solution given ch. 17 ult. For Rome never has been, and from its very position never could be, a great commercial city. I leave this difficulty unsolved, merely requesting the student to bear in mind its true limits, and not to charge it exclusively on that interpretation which only shares it with any other possible one. The main features of the description are taken from that of the destruction of and lamentation over Tyre in Ezekiel 27:0 , to which city they were strictly applicable. And possibly it may be said that they are also applicable to the church which has wedded herself to the pride of the earth and its luxuries. But certainly, as has been observed, the details of this mercantile lamentation far more nearly suit London, than Rome at any assignable period of her history),  a cargo of gold, and of silver, and of precious stone, and of pearls, and of fine linen manufacture (  βυσσίνου is the neut. adj. from βύσσος ),  and of purple, and of silken stuff (in describing Vespasian’s triumph, Jos., B. J. vii. 5. 4, says, κἀκεῖνοι χωρὶς ὅπλων ἦσαν ἐσθήσεσι σηρικαῖς , ἐστεφανωμένοι δάφναις )  and of scarlet stuff, and (the accusative is now taken up instead of the genitive governed by γόμον , which latter is however resumed below at ἵππων , and again dropped at ψυχάς )  all citron wood (the wood of the θύον , θύα , or θυΐα , the citrus of the Romans (Plin. iii. 29), probably the cupressus thyioides, or the thyia articulata. Theophrastus, Hist. Plant. Revelation 18:5 , thus describes it: τὸ δὲ θύϊον , οἱ δὲ θυΐαν καλοῦσι , παρ ʼ Ἀμμωνίδι γίνεται , καὶ ἐν τῇ Κυρηναίᾳ · τὴν μὲν μορφὴν ὅμοιον κυπαρίττῳ καὶ τοῖς κλάδοις καὶ τοῖς φύλλοις καὶ τῷ στελέχει καὶ τῷ καρπῷ .… ἀσαπὶς .… ὅλως τὸ ξύλον , οὐλότατον δὲ τὴν ῥίζαν ἐστί , καὶ ἐκ ταύτης τὰ σπουδαιότατα ποιεῖται τῶν ἔργων . It was used for costly doors, with fittings of ivory, Ath [122] v. 205 B, 207 F, and for tables, Strabo iv. 310 A. It had a sweet smell, Plin. ut supra, “Nota etiam Homero fuit; θύον Græce vocatur, ab aliis thya. Hanc igitur inter odores uri tradit in deliciis Circes … magno errore eorum qui odoramenta in eo vocabulo accipiunt, cum præsertim eodem versu cedrum laricemque una tradat: in quo manifestum est de arboribus tantum locutum.” But Pliny is clearly wrong: for Homer’s words are πῦρ μὲν ἐπ ʼ ἐσχαρόφιν μέγα καίετο , τηλόθι δ ʼ ὀδμὴ Κέδρου τ ʼ εὐκεάτοιο θύου τ ʼ ἀνὰ νῆσον ὀδώδει Δαιομένων , Od. ε . 60. See Wetst. for more illustrations, and Winer, Realw. art. Thinenholz),  and every article of ivory, and every article of most costly wood, and of brass, and of iron, and of marble; and cinnamon (it is not certain, whether the κιννάμωμον or κίνναμον , קִנָּמוֹן , of the ancients was the same as our cinnamon. Various accounts are given of its origin (see Winer, Realw. art. Zimmt, and Theophr. plant. ix. 4; Strabo xvi. p. 778; Diod. Sic. ii. 49, iii. 46), but Herodotus, who (iii. 111) ascribes it to the country where Dionysus was born, i. e. to India, seems to give the right statement, if at least it is the modern cinnamon, which comes from Ceylon. In ref. Exod. it is an ingredient in the holy oil for anointing: in Pro 7:17 it is one of the perfumes of the bed of the adulteress: in Son 4:14 it is one of the plants growing in the garden of the beloved)  and amomum (a precious ointment made from an Asiatic shrub, and used for the hair: see the numerous citations from Ovid, Martial, &c., in Wetst., and Plin. H. N. xii. 13 (28)),  and odours (for incense),  and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine meal (  σεμίδαλις , the  simila or  similago of the Latins, the finest wheaten meal: see Wetst. and Palm and Rost sub voce),  and wheat, and cattle and sheep, and of horses and of chariots (“Rheda genus vehiculi iv. rotarum,” Isidor. xx. 17 in Wetst., who also quotes Lampridius to the effect that Alexander Severus “rhedas senatoribus omnibus ut argentatas haberent permisit: interesse Romanæ dignitatis putans ut his tantæ urbis senatores versarentur”. Quintilian, i. 5, ascribes to the word a Gallic origin: “plurima Gallica valuerunt, ut rheda et petorritum, quorum altero Cicero tamen, altero Horatius utitur”)  and of bodies (i. e. slaves. The expression is blamed by the Atticists as not used by the ancients: so Pollux, iii. 78, σώματα ἁπλῶς οὐκ ἂν εἴποις , ἀλλὰ σώματα δοῦλα . And so Phrynichus, p. 378, σώματα ἐπὶ τῶν ὠνίων ἀνδραπόδων , οἷον σώματα πωλεῖται , οὐ χρῶνται οἱ ἀρχαῖοι . Lobeck, in his note there, shews that Plato and Demosthenes use σώματα for any kind of men indefinitely (Plato, Legg. x. 114: Dem. p. 910), and it is the appropriating it to σώμ . δοῦλα alone which constitutes the later usage),  and (the accus. here comes in after genitives)  persons of men (so the E. V. for נֶפֶשׁ אָדָם , ref. Ezek. which the LXX render as here, ψυχαῖς ἀνθρώπων . But in Genesis 36:6 , for כָּל־נַפְשׁוֹת בֵּיתוֹ , they have πάντα τὰ  σώματα τοῦ οἴκου αὐτοῦ , where also E. V. has  persons . It seems vain to attempt to draw a distinction between the σώματα and ψυχὰς ἀνθρώπων . If any is to be sought, the most obvious is that pointed out by Bengel, and adopted by Ewald, Hengstb, and Düsterd., that the σωμάτων expresses such slaves as belong to the horses and chariots, and ψυχὰς ἀνθρ . slaves in general).
	 [122] Athanasius, Bp. of Alexandria, 326 373