CH. Rev 18:1 to Revelation 19:10 .] THE DESTRUCTION OF BABYLON. And herein, Revelation 18:1-3 .]  Announcement of the destruction . The Seer does not see the act of destruction: it is prophesied to him in ch. 17, and now announced, as indeed it had been by anticipation before, ch. Revelation 14:8 , as having taken place.  After these things I saw another angel (another besides the one who shewed him the vision in the last chapter: or, perhaps, as it is natural to join the ἄλλον in some measure with the participle following, another besides the last who came down from heaven, ch. Rev 10:1 )  coming down out of heaven (the Seer is still on the earth)  having great power (possibly, as Elliott suggests, as the executor of the judgment that he announced. If so, the announcement is still anticipatory, see Rev 18:21 ),  and the earth was lighted up by his glory (  ἐκ , as the source of the brightness):  and he cried with (or,  in )  a mighty voice saying, Babylon the great is fallen [  is fallen ],  and is become an habitation of dæmons (see especially LXX, Isaiah 34:14 ff.),  and a hold (a place of detention: as it were an appointed prison)  of every unclean spirit, and a hold of every unclean and hated bird (see the prophecy respecting Babylon, Jer 50:39 ):  because by (  out of , as source: or, according to the other reading,  of )  the wrath of her fornication all the nations have fallen (or, according to the other reading,  drunk : see on ch. Revelation 14:8 . The use of the θυμός is even more remarkable here: of (or, by) that wine of her fornication which has turned into wrath to herself),  and the kings of the earth committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth became rich out of the quantity (  δύναμις , copia, as Vitringa, who remarks, “alluditur ad Hebræam vocem חיל , cujus hæc significationis vis est, Job 31:25 , Ezekiel 28:4 .” We have πλούτου μεγάλου δύναμιν in Jos. Antt. iii. 2. 4)  of her luxury (  στρῆνος , see reff. and note on 1 Tim., seems properly to mean the exuberance of strength, the flower of pride).