 4 20 .]  Warning to God’s people to leave her, on account of the greatness of her crimes and coming judgments ( Rev 18:4-8 );  lamentations over her on the part of those who were enriched by her ( Rev 18:9-20 ).  And I heard another voice out of heaven (not that of the Father nor of Christ, for in such a case, as has been well observed, the long poetical lamentation would be hardly according to prophetic decorum; but that of an angel speaking in the name of God, as we have μου ch. Rev 11:3 also)  saying, Come out of her, my people (in reff. Isa., the circumstances differed, in that being a joyful exodus, this a cautionary one: and thus the warning is brought nearer to that one which our Lord commands in Matthew 24:16 , and the cognate warnings in the O. T., viz. that of Lot to come out of Sodom, Genesis 19:15-22 , when her destruction impended, and that of the people of Israel to get them up from the tents of Dathan and Abiram, Numbers 16:23-26 . In reff. Jer., we have the same circumstance of Babylon’s impending destruction combined with the warning: and from those places probably, especially Jeremiah 51:45 , the words here are taken. The inference has been justly made from them (Elliott iv. p, 40), that there shall be, even to the last, saints of God in the midst of Rome: and that there will be danger of their being, through a lingering fondness for her, partakers in her coming judgments),  that ye partake not in her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues (the fear, in case of God’s servants remaining in her, would be twofold: 1) lest by over-persuasion or guilty conformity they should become accomplices in any of her crimes: 2) lest by being in and of her, they should, though the former may not have been the case (and even more if it have), share in her punishment. It was through lingering fondness that Lot’s wife became a sharer in the destruction of Sodom):  because her sins (not as De W. the  cry of her sins: but the idea is of a heap: see below)  have reached (  κολλᾶσθαι is put here after the analogy of the Heb. דָּבַק , which, see Gesen. Lex. p. 312, is used for  assecutus est, proxime accessit ad , Genesis 19:19 ; Jeremiah 42:16 , al. Gesenius compares  hærere in terga hostium , Liv. Revelation 1:14 ;  in tergis , Tacit. hist. iv. 19; Curt. iv. 15. Bengel gives it well,  accumulata pervenerunt )  as far as heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. Repay to her (the words are now addressed to the executioners of judgment)  as she also repaid (cf. ref. Jer., καθὼς ἐποίησε , ποιήσατε αὐτῇ . The latter ἀπέδωκεν is used, not in its strict propriety, but as corresponding to the other. Hers was a giving, this is a giving back: we have exactly the same construction, which was probably in mind here, used also of Babylon, in ref. Ps., μακάριος ὃς ἀνταποδώσει σοι τὸ ἀνταπόδομά σου , ὃ ἀνταπέδωκας ἡμῖν ),  and double [  the ]  double according to her works (so in reff. Isa. and Jer.).  In the cup (see above, ch. Revelation 17:4 , also Revelation 14:8 , and our Rev 18:3 )  which she mixed, mix for her double (see ch. Revelation 14:10 ; a double portion of the deadly wine of God’s wrath):  in proportion as (lit., in as many things as)  she glorified her (self: possibly ruled into this form αὐτήν by the continual recurrence of the various cases of αὐτή in the context),  and luxuriated (see above, Revelation 18:3 , and ref. 1 Tim. note),  so much torment and grief give to her. Because in her heart she saith (  that )  I sit a queen (see ref. Isa., from which the sense and even the single words come, being there also said of Babylon. Similarly also Ezekiel 27:1 ff., of Tyre), and  am not a widow (ref. as above),  and shall never see sorrow (= οὐδὲ γνώσομαι ὀρφανίαν , Isa. l. c).  For this cause in one day shall come her plagues, death and mourning and famine (from Isaiah 47:9 , where however we have ἀτεκνία καὶ χηρεία . The judgments here are more fearful: death, for her scorn of the prospect of widowhood; mourning, for her inordinate revelling; famine, for her abundance):  and with fire shall she be burnt (the punishment of the fornicatress; see ch. Rev 17:16 note. Whether this is to be understood of the literal destruction of the  city of Rome by fire, Elliott iv. 43, is surely doubtful, considering the mystical character of the whole prophecy):  because strong is [the Lord] God who hath judged her (a warrant for the severity of the judgment which shall befall her).