1. Timotheus—mentioned as
	being well known to the Philippians (Acts 16:3;
	Acts 16:10-12), and now
	present with Paul. Not that Timothy had any share in writing the
	Epistle; for Paul presently uses the first person singular, "I,"
	not "we" (Philippians 1:3).
	The mention of his name implies merely that Timothy joined in
	affectionate remembrances to them. 
	servants of Jesus Christ—The
	oldest manuscripts read the order, "Christ Jesus." Paul
	does not call himself "an apostle," as in the inscriptions
	of other Epistles; for the Philippians needed not to be reminded of
	his apostolic authority. He writes rather in a tone of affectionate
	familiarity. 
	all—so Philippians 1:4;
	Philippians 1:7; Philippians 1:8;
	Philippians 1:25; Philippians 2:17;
	Philippians 2:26. It implies
	comprehensive affection which desired not to forget any one among
	them "all." 
	bishops—synonymous with
	"presbyters" in the apostolical churches; as appears from
	the same persons being called "elders of the Church" at
	Ephesus (Acts 20:17), and
	"overseers" (Acts 20:28),
	Greek, "bishops." And Acts 20:28- :, compare with Philippians 1:7.
	This is the earliest letter of Paul where bishops and deacons are
	mentioned, and the only one where they are separately addressed in
	the salutation. This accords with the probable course of events,
	deduced alike from the letters and history. While the apostles were
	constantly visiting the churches in person or by messengers, regular
	pastors would be less needed; but when some were removed by various
	causes, provision for the permanent order of the churches would be
	needed. Hence the three pastoral letters, subsequent to this Epistle,
	give instruction as to the due appointment of bishops and deacons. It
	agrees with this new want of the Church, when other apostles were
	dead or far away, and Paul long in prison, that bishops and deacons
	should be prominent for the first time in the opening salutation. The
	Spirit thus intimated that the churches were to look up to their own
	pastors, now that the miraculous gifts were passing into God's
	ordinary providence, and the presence of the inspired apostles, the
	dispensers of those gifts, was to be withdrawn [PALEY,
	"Horæ Paulinæ]. "Presbyter," implied the
	rank; "bishop," the duties of the office
	[NEANDER]. Naturally, when
	the apostles who had the chief supervision were no more, one among
	the presbyters presided and received the name "bishop," in
	the more restricted and modern sense; just as in the Jewish synagogue
	one of the elders presided as "ruler of the synagogue."
	Observe, the apostle addresses the Church (that is, the congregation)
	more directly than its presiding ministers (Colossians 4:17;
	1 Thessalonians 5:12; Hebrews 13:24;
	Revelation 1:4; Revelation 1:11).
	The bishops managed more the internal, the deacons the external,
	affairs of the Church. The plural number shows there was more than
	one bishop or presbyter, and more than one deacon in the Church at
	Philippi.