8. granted—Though in one sense
	she "made herself ready," having by the Spirit's
	work in her put on "the wedding garment," yet in the
	fullest sense it is not she, but her Lord, who makes her ready by
	"granting to her that she be arrayed in fine linen."
	It is He who, by giving Himself for her, presents her to
	Himself a glorious Church, not having spot, but holy and without
	blemish. It is He also who sanctifies her, naturally vile and
	without beauty, with the washing of water by the word, and puts
	His own comeliness on her, which thus becomes hers. 
	clean and white—so
	ANDREAS. But A and B
	transpose. Translate, "bright and pure"; at once
	brilliantly splendid and spotless as in the bride
	herself. 
	righteousness—Greek,
	"righteousnesses"; distributively used. Each saint
	must have this righteousness: not merely be justified, as if the
	righteousness belonged to the Church in the aggregate; the
	saints together have righteousnesses; namely, He is accounted
	as "the Lord our righteousness" to each saint on his
	believing, their robes being made white in the blood of the Lamb.
	The righteousness of the saint is not, as ALFORD
	erroneously states, inherent, but is imputed: if it
	were otherwise, Christ would be merely enabling the sinner to justify
	himself. Romans 5:18 is decisive on
	this. Compare Article XI, Church of England. The justification
	already given to the saints in title and unseen possession, is now
	GIVEN them in
	manifestation: they openly walk with Christ in white. To
	this, rather than to their primary justification on earth, the
	reference is here. Their justification before the apostate world,
	which had persecuted them, contrasts with the judgment and
	condemnation of the harlot. "Now that the harlot has fallen, the
	woman triumphs" [AUBERLEN].
	Contrast with the pure fine linen (indicating the simplicity
	and purity) of the bride, the tawdry ornamentation of the harlot.
	Babylon, the apostate Church, is the antithesis to new Jerusalem, the
	transfigured Church of God. The woman (Romans 5:18- :), the harlot (Romans 5:18- :), the bride (Romans 5:18- :), are the three leading aspects of the Church.