Not to think, etc. The play upon fronein to think and its compounds is very noticeable. " Not to be high - minded (hyperphronein) above what he ought to be minded (phronein), but to be minded (phronein) unto the being sober - minded (sophronein). See on 1 Peter 4:7. The measure of faith [μετρον πιστεως] . An expression which it is not easy to define accurately. It is to be noted : 1. That the point of the passage is a warning against an undue self - estimate, and a corresponding exhortation to estimate one's self with discrimination and sober judgment. Romans 12:0:2That Paul has a standard by which self - estimate is to be regulated. This is expressed by wJv as, according as. 3. That this scale or measure is different in different persons, so that the line between conceit and sober thinking is not the same for all. This is expressed by ejmerisen hath imparted, distributed, and eJkastw to each one. 4. The character of this measure or standard is determined by faith. It must be observed that the general exhortation to a proper self - estimate is shaped by, and foreshadows, the subsequent words respecting differences of gifts. It was at this point that the tendency to self - conceit and spiritual arrogance would develop itself. Hence the precise definition of faith here will be affected by its relation to the differing gifts in ver. 6. Its meaning, therefore, must not be strictly limited to the conception of justifying faith in Christ, though that conception includes and is really the basis of every wider conception. It is faith as the condition of the powers and offices of believers, faith regarded as spiritual insight, which, according to its degree, qualifies a man to be a prophet, a teacher, a minister, etc.; faith in its relation to character, as the only principle which develops a man's true character, and which, therefore, is the determining principle of the renewed man's tendencies, whether they lead him to meditation and research, or to practical activity. As faith is the sphere and subjective condition of the powers and functions of believers, so it furnishes a test or regulative standard of their respective endowments and functions. Thus the measure applied is distinctively a measure of faith. With faith the believer receives a power of discernment as to the actual limitations of his gifts. Faith, in introducing him into God 's kingdom, introduces him to new standards of measurement, according to which he accurately determines the nature and extent of his powers, and so does not think of himself too highly. This measure is different in different individuals, but in every case faith is the determining element of the measure. Paul, then, does not mean precisely to say that a man is to think more or less soberly of himself according to the quantity of faith which he has, though that is true as a fact; but that sound and correct views as to the character and extent of spiritual gifts and functions are fixed by a measure, the determining element of which, in each particular case, is faith.