 14. ]  σὺν γυναιξίν has been rendered ‘  with their wives ,’ to which sense Bp. Middleton inclines, justifying it by σὺν γυναιξὶν καὶ τέκνοις , ch. Acts 21:5 . But the omission of the articles there may be accounted for on the same principle as in Matthew 19:29 , viz. that which Bp. M [8] calls  enumeration , ch. 6 § 2. Here I think we must take σὺν γυν . not as meaning ‘  with women ,’ as Hackett, but, the art. not being expressed after the preposition σύν , as = σὺν ταῖς γυν . (see Middl. ch. 6 § 1), and interpret γυν .,  the women , viz. those spoken of by Luke himself, Luke 8:2-3 , where, besides those named, he mentions ἕτεραι πολλαί . Many of these were certainly not wives of the Apostles; and that those women who were ‘last at the Cross and earliest at the tomb’ should not have been assembled with the company now, is very improbable.
	 [8]. Marcion, 130; fragments in Epiph. (Mcion-e) and Tert. (Mcion-t)
	 καὶ Μαρίᾳ ] The καί gives eminence to  one among those previously mentioned. So τῶνδε εἵνεκα , καὶ γῆς ἱμέρῳ , Herod. i. 73. See Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 145.
	This is the last mention of her in the N. T. The traditions, which describe her as (1) dying at the age of fifty-nine, in the fifth year of Claudius (Niceph. H. E. ii. 21), or (2) accompanying John to Ephesus, and being buried there (see Winer, Realwörterb. art. Maria), are untrustworthy. Other accounts, with the authorities, may be seen in Butler’s Lives of the Saints, Aug. 15. The fable of the Assumption has  no foundation even in tradition .
	 τοῖς ἀδελφ  .   αὐτ  . ] This clearly shews, as does Joh 7:5 compared with John 6:69-70 , that  none of the brethren of our Lord were of the number of the Twelve . When they were converted, is quite uncertain. See the whole subject discussed in note on Matthew 13:55 , and in the Prolegomena to the Epistle of James. In both cases of  one being distinguished from a number, cited here by Wordsw. to shew that James the Less may have been one of these brethren, viz. that of Μαρία , as distinguished among the women here, and that of Joseph, ch. Acts 7:9 , he does not observe that the  general statement precedes the individual distinction, as indeed it naturally must.