 12 .] In so careful a writer (see Luk 1:3 ) there must be some reason why this minute specification of distance should be here inserted, when no such appears in the Gospel. And I believe this will be found, by combining the hint dropped by Chrysostom, δοκεῖ δέ μοι καὶ σαββάτῳ γεγονέναι ταῦτα ʼ οὐ γὰρ ἂν οὕτω τὸ διάστημα ἐδήλωσεν … εἰ μὴ ὡρισμένον τι μῆκος ἐβάδιζον ἐν τῇ ἡμέρᾳ τοῦ σαββάτου , with the declaration in the Gospel ( Luk 24:50 ) that he led them out  as far as to Bethany , This latter was ( Joh 11:18 )  fifteen stadia from Jerusalem, which is more than twice the Sabbath-day’s journey (2000 cubits = about six furlongs). Now if the Ascension happened on the Sabbath, it is very possible that offence may have arisen at the statement in the Gospel: and that therefore the Evangelist gives here the more exact notice, that the spot, although forming part of the district of Bethany, was yet on that part of the Mount of Olives which fell within the limits of the Sabbath-day’s journey. This of course must be a mere conjecture; but it will not be impugned by the fact of the Ascension being kept by the Church in after ages on a Thursday. This formed no hindrance to Chrysostom in making the above supposition: although the festival was certainly observed in his time (see Bingham, Orig [7] Eccl. 20:6. There is no mention of it in the Fathers of the first three centuries).  Forty days from the Resurrection is an expression which would suit as well the Saturday of the seventh week as the Thursday.
	 [7] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	The distance of the Mount of Olives from Jerusalem is stated by Josephus at five stadia, Antt. xx. 8. 6, at six stadia, B. J. v. 2. 3; different points being taken as the limit. The present church of the Ascension rather exceeds the distance of six stadia from the city.
	The use of  ἐλαιών , - ῶνος , here (and in reff.) by Luke only is remarkable, especially as the whole passage is so much in his own distinctive style as to preclude the idea of his having transferred a written document.
	ἔχον is not for ἀπέχον , but as in  τριάκ  .   κ  . ὀκτ . ἔτη ἔχων , John 5:5 , and in reff.; the space or time mentioned being regarded as an  attribute of the subject.