 19. ] It is principally from this verse that it has been inferred that the two Act 1:18-19 are  inserted by Luke . But it is impossible to separate it from Acts 1:18 ; and I am disposed to regard both as belonging to Peter’s speech, but freely Græcized by Luke, inserting  into the speech itself the explanations τῇ [ ἰδίᾳ ] διαλ . αὐτ ., and τουτέστιν χ . αἵμ ., as if the speech had been spoken in Greek originally. This is much more natural, than to parenthesize these clauses; it is, in fact, what must be more or less done by all who report in a language different from that actually used by the speaker. The words and idioms of another tongue contain allusions and national peculiarities which never could have been in the mind of one speaking in a different language; but the ear tolerates these, or easily separates them, if critically exercised.
	 γνωστὸν  … ] See Luke 24:18 .
	 ὥστε ] in Matthew 27:8 , the name ‘the field of blood’ is referred to the fact of its having been  bought with the price of blood : here, to the fact of  Judas having there  met with a signal and bloody death . On the whole, I believe the result to which I have above inclined will be found the best to suit the phænomena of the two passages, viz. that, with regard to the  purchase of the field , the more circumstantial account in Matthew is to be adopted; with regard to the  death of Judas , the more circumstantial account of Luke. The  clue which joins these has been lost to us : and in this, only those will find any stumbling-block, whose faith in the veracity of the Evangelists is very weak indeed.
	 Ἀκελδαμάχ ] חֲקִל דְּמָא . The field originally belonged to a potter, and was probably a piece of land which had been exhausted of its clay fit for his purposes, and so was useless. Jerome relates that it was still shewn on the S. side of Mount Sion ( ἐν βορείοις τοῦ Σιὼν ὄρους , but by mistake, Eusebius), in which neighbourhood there is even now a bed of white clay (see Winer, Realw., art. ‘Blutacker’).