 25. ]  τόπον is from internal evidence, as well us manuscript authority, the preferable reading. It has been altered to κλῆρον to suit Acts 1:17 .
	 διακονίας , implying the active duties;  ἀποστολῆς , the official dignity of the office: no figure of ἓν διὰ δυοῖν .
	 τὸν τόπον τὸν ἴδιον ] With the reading τόπον before, I think these words may be interpreted two ways: 1. that Judas  deserted this our τόπος , our office and ministry,  to go to his own τόπος , that part which he had chosen for himself, viz. the office and character of a traitor and enemy of God; 2. regarding the former word τόπος as being selected to correspond to the more proper and dreadful use of the word  here , that Judas  deserted his τόπος , his appointed place, here among us, that he might go to  his own appointed τόπος  elsewhere , viz.  among the dead in the place of torment . Of these two interpretations, I very much prefer the second, on all accounts; as being more according to the likely usage of the word, and as more befitting the solemnity of such a prayer. At the same time, no  absolute sentence is pronounced on the traitor, but that dark surmise expressed by the euphemism τὸν τόπον τ . ἴδ ., which none can help feeling with regard to him. To refer the words πορ . εἰς τ . τόπ . τ . ἴδ ., to the  successor of Judas (Knatchbull, Hammond, al.), ‘  ut occupet locum ipsi a Deo destinatum ,’ (1) is contrary to the form of the sentence, which would require καὶ πορευθῆναι ; (2) is inconsistent with the words πορ . κ . τ . λ ., which are unexampled in this sense; (3) would divest a sentence, evidently solemn and pregnant, of all point and meaning, and reduce it to a mere tautology. It appears to have been very early understood as above; for Clement of Rome says of Peter (1 Corinthians 5:0 ), οὕτω μαρτυρήσας ἐπορεύθη εἰς τὸν ὀφειλόμενον τόπον τῆς δόξης , an expression evidently borrowed from our text. Lightf., Hor. Hebr. in loc., quotes from the Rabbinical work Baal turim on Numbers 24:25 , ‘Balaam ivit in locum suum, i.e. in Gehennam.’