 7 .] This is a  general reproof and assertion, spoken with reference to  men , as forbidden to search curiously into a point which Omniscience has reserved the times and seasons of the future divine dealings. But it is remarkable that not θεός , but ὁ πατήρ , is here used; and this cannot fail to remind us of that saying ( Mar 13:32 ), περὶ δὲ τῆς ἡμέρας ἐκείνης ἢ τῆς ὥρας οὐδεὶς οἶδεν , οὐδὲ ἄγγελος ἐν οὐρανῷ , οὐδὲ ὁ υἱός ,  εἰ μὴ ὁ πατήρ . It may be observed however, that the same assertion  is not made here : only the times and seasons said to be in the  power of the Almighty Father, Who ordereth all things κατὰ τὴν βουλὴν τοῦ θελήματος αὐτοῦ . The  Knowledge of the Son is not here in question, only  that of the disciples . It is an enquiry intimately connected with the interpretation of the two passages, but one beyond our power to resolve, how far, among the things not yet put under His feet, may be this very thing, the  knowledge of that day and hour . Bengel attempts to evade the generality of the οὐχ ὑμῶν ἐστιν : ‘quæ apostolorum  nondum erat nosse, per Apocalypsin postea sunt significata.’ But signified  to whom? What individual, or portion of the Church, has ever read plainly these χρόνους ἢ καιρούς in that mysterious book? There is truth in Olsh.’s remark, that the Apostles were to be less prophets of the future, than witnesses of the past; but we must not so limit the ὑμῶν , nor forget that the γνῶναι χρόνους ἢ καιρ . has very seldom been imparted by prophecy, which generally has formed a testimony to this very fact, that God has them in His foreknowledge, and, while He announces the events, conceals for the most part in obscurity the  times .
	 χρ  .   ἢ καιρ .] not synonymous; as Meyer observes, καιρός is always a definite limited space of time, and involves the idea of transitoriness. See also Tittmann, N. T. Synonymes, pp. 39 45.
	 ἔθ  .   ἐν τῇ ἰδ  .   ἐξ .] Some (De Wette, al.) render ‘hath appointed  by His own power;’  I should rather take ἐν ἐξ . as in ch. Acts 5:4 ,  in His own power , and understand by ἔθετο  kept , ‘(hath) placed,’ as E. V. But the aor. sense should be preserved: the period referred to being that of the arrangement of the divine counsels of Redemption.