 13.   εἰσῆλθ .] ‘into the city;’ see reff.
	 τὸ ὑπερῷ .] The idea that this was a chamber in  the Temple has originated in low literal-harmonistic views, Luke having stated ( Luk 24:53 ) that they were διὰ παντὸς ἐν τῷ ἱερῷ . As if such an expression could be literally understood, or taken to mean more than that they were there at all appointed times (see ch. Act 3:1 ). It is in the highest degree improbable that the disciples would be found  assembled in  any public place at this time. The upper chamber was  perhaps that in which the last Supper had been taken;  probably that in which they had been since then assembled (John 20:19 ; Joh 20:26 ), but  certainly one in a  private house . Lightf. shews that it was the practice of the Jews to retire into a large chamber under the flat roof for purposes of deliberation or prayer. See Neander, Pfl. u. Leit., p. 13, note. Epiphanius, de ponderibus, c. 14 (vol. iii. p. 170), relates that when Hadrian came to Jerusalem, εὗρε τὴν πόλιν πᾶσαν ἠδαφισμένην καὶ τὸ ἱερὸν τοῦ θεοῦ καταπεπατημένον , παρεκτὸς ὀλίγων οἰκημάτων καὶ τῆς τοῦ οεοῦ ἐκκλησίας μικρᾶς οὔσης , ἔνθα ὑποστρέψαντες οἱ μαθηταί , ὅτε ὁ σωτὴρ ἀνελήφθη ἀπὸ τοῦ Ἐλαιῶνος , ἀνέβησαν εἰς τὸ ὑπερῷον . ἐκεῖ γὰρ ᾠκοδόμητο , τουτέστιν ἐν τῷ μέρει Σιών · ἥτις ἀπὸ τῆς ἐρημώσεως περιελήφθη , … ἕως χρόνου Μαξίμου τοῦ ἐπισκόπου καὶ Κωνσταιτίνου τοῦ βασιλέως , ὡς σκηνὴ ἐν ἀμπελῶνι , κατὰ τὸ γεγραμμένον . And Nicephorus viii. 30 (see Wordsw.) says that the Empress Helena enclosed in her larger church the chamber where took place ἡ τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος καθοδος ἐν τῷ ὑπερῴῳ .
	 οὗ ἦσαν κατ  . ] not to be taken as in E. V. ‘  where abode both Peter,’ &c. ; which gives the idea that Peter, &c. were  already in the chamber , and the rest  joined them there : but,  on entering the city, they went up into the upper chamber ,  where they (usually)  sojourned (not ‘  dwelt :’ they did not all dwell in one house; see John 19:27 , note),  namely, Peter , &c. On the catalogue of the Apostles, see Matthew 10:2 , note.