 18. ] This verse  cannot be regarded as inserted by Luke ; for, 1. the place of its insertion would be most unnatural for an historical notice; 2. the μὲν οὖν forbids the supposition; 3. the whole style of the verse is rhetorical, and not narrative, e.g. οὗτος , μισθοῦ τῆς ἀδικίας .
	The  ἐκτήσατο χωρίον does not appear to agree with the account in Matthew 27:6-8 ; nor, consistently with common honesty, can they be reconciled,  unless we knew more of the facts than we do . If we compare the two, that of Matthew is the more particular, and more likely to give rise to this one,  as a general inference from the buying of the field , than  vice versâ . Whether Judas, as Bengel supposes, ‘initio emtionis facto, occasionem dederat ut Sacerdotes eam consummarent,’ we cannot say: such a thing is of course possible[, but is certainly not contemplated by St. Matthew’s account, where the priests settle to buy the field, on deliberation, what they should do with the money]. At all events we hence clearly see that  Luke could not have been acquainted with the Gospel of Matthew at this time , or surely (not, he would have  repeated St. Matt.’s account, as Wordsw. unfairly represents me to say, but) this apparent discrepancy would not have been found. The various attempts to reconcile the two narratives, which may be seen in most of our English commentaries, are among the saddest examples of the shifts to which otherwise high-minded men are driven by an unworthy system. See as a notable example, Wordsw.’s note, written since the above. I need hardly say to any intelligent and ingenuous reader, that his way of harmonizing, viz. that as the  Jews are said to have crucified our Lord when they were only the occasion of his being crucified, so Judas may be said to have bought the field when he only gave occasion to its being bought by the Chief Priests, is entirely precluded here by the words ἐκ μισθοῦ τῆς ἀδικίας , ‘out of the wages of his iniquity,’ which plainly bind on the purchase to Judas as his personal act.
	 καὶ πρ  .   γεν  . ] The connexion of this with the former clause would seem to point to the death of Judas having taken place  in the field which he bought. See also Acts 1:19 .
	 πρηνὴς γενόμενος will hardly bear the meaning assigned to it by those who wish to harmonize the two accounts, viz. that, having hanged himself, he fell by the breaking of the rope. πρηνής · ἐπὶ πρόσωπον πεπτωκώς , Hesych [9] ὅλον μὲν τὸ σῶμα κεῖσθαι πρηνὲς λέγομεν , ὅταν ἡ μὲν γαστὴρ κάτωθεν , ἄνωθεν δὲ ᾖ τὸ νῶτον , Galen, cited by Wetstein. πρηνής , εἰς τοὔμπροσθεν , ἐπὶ στόματος , Etymol. Nor again is it at all probable that the Apostle would recount what was a  mere accident accompanying his death , when that death itself was the accursed one of  hanging . What then are we to decide respecting the two accounts? That there should have been a double account actually current of the death of Judas at this early period is  in the highest degree improbable , and will only be assumed by those (De Wette, &c.) who take a very low view of the accuracy of the Evangelists. Dismissing then this solution, let us compare the accounts themselves. In this case,  that in Matthew 27:0 is  general , ours  particular. That depends entirely on the exact sense to be assigned to  ἀπήγξατο ( וַיֵּחָנַק , καὶ ἀπήγξατο , 2Sa 17:23 ): whereas  this distinctly assigns the manner of his death, without stating any cause for the falling on his face. It is obvious that, while the general term used by Matthew points mainly at  self-murder , the account given here does not preclude the catastrophe related having happened, in some way, as a divine judgment,  during the suicidal attempt . Further than this, with our present knowledge, we cannot go.  An accurate acquaintance with the actual circumstances would account for the discrepancy, but  nothing else .
	 [9] Hesychius of Jerusalem, cent y . vi.
	Another kind of death is assigned to Judas by Œcumenius, quoting from Papias: ἱστορεῖ Παπίας ὁ τοῦ Ἰωάννου τοῦ ἀποστ . μαθητὴς λέγων · μέγα τῆς ἀσεβείας ὑπόδειγμα ἐν τούτῳ τῷ κόσμῳ περιεπάτησεν Ἰούδας · πρησθεὶς γὰρ ἐπὶ τὴν σάρκα , ὥστε μὴ δύνασθαι διελθεῖν , ἁμάξης ῥαδίως διερχομένης , ὑπὸ τῆς ἁμάξης ἐπιέσθη , ὥστε τὰ ἔγκατα αὐτοῦ ἐκκενωθῆναι . Theophylact quotes the same on Matthew 27:0 , but without the last words, ὑπὸ τῆς ἁμ . κ . τ . λ ., which De Wette supposes to have been inserted from Œcumenius having misunderstood Papias. If so, the tradition is in accordance with, and has arisen from an exaggerated amplification of, our text. See the whole passage from Theophylact cited, and a discussion whether it is rightly ascribed to Papias, in Routh, Reliquiæ Sacræ, vol. i. p. 9, and notes.
	 ἐλάκησεν ]  cracked asunder : it implies bursting with a noise. It is quite possible that this catastrophe happening in the field, as our narrative implies, may have suggested its employment as a burial-place for strangers, as being defiled. So Stier, Reden der Apostel, i. 10.