certain
	men
	— implying disparagement.crept
	in unawares
	— stealthily and unlawfully. See on  :-,
	“privily
	shall bring in damnable heresies.”before
	... ordained
	— Greek,
	“forewritten,” namely, in Peter’s prophecy  :-,
	 :-;
	and in Paul’s before that,  :-;
	 :-;
	and by implication in the judgments which overtook the apostate
	angels. The disobedient Israelites, Sodom and Gomorrah, Balaam and
	Core, and which are written
	“for an example” ( :-,
	and  :-,
	 :-,
	 :-).
	God’s eternal character as the Punisher of sin, as set forth in
	Scripture “of old,” is the ground on which such apostate
	characters are ordained to condemnation. Scripture is the reflection
	of God’s book of life in which believers are “written among the
	living.” “Forewritten” is applied also in  :-
	to the things written in Scripture. Scripture itself reflects God’s
	character from everlasting, which is the ground of His decrees from
	everlasting. Bengel explains it as an abbreviated phrase for, “They
	were of
	old foretold
	by Enoch ( :-,
	who did not write
	his prophecies), and afterwards marked out by the written
	word.”to
	this condemnation
	— Jude graphically puts their judgment as it were present before
	the eyes, “THIS.” Enoch’s prophecy comprises the “ungodly
	men” of the last days before Christ’s coming to judgment, as well
	as their forerunners, the “ungodly men” before the flood, the
	type of the last judgment ( :-;
	 :-).
	The disposition and the doom of both correspond.the
	grace of our God
	— A phrase for the Gospel especially sweet to believers who
	appropriate God in Christ as “our
	God,” and so rendering the more odious the vile perversity of those
	who turn the Gospel state of grace and liberty into a ground of
	licentiousness, as if their exemption from the law gave them a
	license to sin.denying
	the only Lord
	— The oldest manuscripts, versions, and Fathers omit “God,”
	which follows in English
	Version.
	Translate as the Greek,
	“the only Master”; here used of Jesus
	Christ,
	who is at once Master
	and “Lord” (a different Greek
	word). See on  :-.
	By virtue of Christ’s perfect oneness with the Father, He, as well
	as the Father, is termed “the ONLY” God and “MASTER.” Greek,
	“Master,” implies God’s absolute
	ownership
	to dispose of His creatures as He likes.