( :-.)kept
	not their first estate
	— Vulgate
	translates, “their own principality,”
	which the fact of angels being elsewhere called “principalities,”
	favors: “their own” implies that, instead of being content with
	the dignity
	once for all assigned to them under the Son of God, they aspired
	higher. Alford thinks the narrative in  :-
	is alluded to, not the fall of the devil and his angels, as he thinks
	“giving themselves over to fornication” ( :-)
	proves; compare Greek,
	“in like manner to
	these,”
	namely, to the angels ( :-).
	It seems to me more natural to take “sons of God” ( :-)
	of the Sethites, than of angels, who, as “spirits,” do not seem
	capable of carnal connection. The parallel,  :-,
	plainly refers to the fall of the apostate angels. And “in like
	manner to
	these,”
	 :-,
	refers to the
	inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah,
	“the cities about them” sinning “in like manner” as “they”
	did [Estius and Calvin]. Even if Greek
	“these,”  :-,
	refer to the
	angels,
	the sense of “in like manner as these” will be, not that the
	angels carnally fornicated
	with the daughters of men, but that their ambition, whereby their
	affections went away
	from
	God and they fell, is in God’s view a sin of like kind spiritually
	as Sodom’s going away
	from God’s order of nature after strange flesh; the sin of the
	apostate angels after their kind is analogous to that of the human
	Sodomites after their kind. Compare the somewhat similar spiritual
	connection of whoremongers
	and covetousness.
	The apocryphal book of Enoch interprets  :-
	as Alford. But though Jude accords with it in some particulars, it
	does not follow that he accords with it in all. The Hebrews name the
	fallen angels Aza and Azael.left
	— on their own accord.their
	own
	— Greek,
	“their proper.”habitation
	— heaven, all bright and glorious, as opposed to the “darkness”
	to which they now are doomed. Their ambitious designs seem to have
	had a peculiar connection with this earth, of which Satan before his
	fall may have been God’s vicegerent, whence arises his subsequent
	connection with it as first the Tempter, then “the prince of this
	world.”reserved
	— As the Greek
	is the same, and there is an evident reference to their
	having “kept
	not
	their first estate,” translate, “He hath kept.” Probably what
	is meant is, He hath kept them in
	His purpose;
	that is their sure doom; moreover, as yet, Satan and his demons roam
	at large on the earth. An earnest of their doom is their having been
	cast out of heaven, being already restricted to “the darkness of
	this present world,” the “air” that surrounds the earth, their
	peculiar element now. They lurk in places of gloom and death, looking
	forward with agonizing fear to their final torment in the bottomless
	pit. He means not literal chains and darkness, but figurative in this
	present world where, with restricted powers and liberties, shut out
	from heaven, they, like condemned prisoners, await their doom.