 10 .] Not a mere repetition, but a confirmation and intensification of 1 John 1:8 . Huther well remarks, that this verse is related to 1Jn 1:9 as 1Jn 1:8 to 1Jn 1:7 ).  If we say that we have not sinned (if we deny, that is, the fact of our commission of sins in our Christian state. The perf., so far from removing the time to that before conversion, brings it down to the present: had it been ἡμαρτήσαμεν , it might have had that signification.  ἡμαρτήκαμεν answers in time to ἁμαρτίαν οὐκ ἔχομεν : the one representing the state as existing, the other the sum of sinful acts which have gone to make it up),  we make Him (God, see above)  a liar (this is the climax, gradually reached through ψευδόμεθα 1 John 1:6 , and ἑαυτοὺς πλανῶμεν 1 John 1:8 . And it is justified, by the uniform assertion of God both in the O. T. and N. T. that all men are sinners, which we thus falsify as far as in us lies),  and His word in not is us (cf. John 5:38 .  ὁ λόγος αὐτοῦ may be interpreted generally, “that which He saith.” “Deus dixit ‘  peccasti :’ id negare nefandum est. Verbum nos vere accusat, et contradicendo arcetur a corde.” Bengel.  οὐκ ἔστιν ἐν ἡμῖν , as in John l. c.,  has no abiding place in , within, us: is something heard by the ear, and external to us, but not finding place among the thoughts and maxims of our heart and life. God declares that to be true which we assume to be untrue. It is evident that with Œc., Grot., De Wette, to understand the O. T. by ὁ λόγος αὐτοῦ is to miss the connexion, seeing that it is of the sins of  Christians that St. John is treating, to whom ὁ λόγος αὐτοῦ has become a far higher revelation of His will, viz. that given by Christ, and brought home to the heart by His indwelling Spirit. This final revelation of God includes the O. and N. T., and all other manifestations of His will to us: and it is this as a whole, which we reject and thrust from us, if we say at any time that we have not sinned, for its united testimony proclaims the contrary).