 8 .]  If we say (see on  ἐάν with subj. above, 1Jn 1:6 )  that we have not sin (i. e. in the course and abiding of our walking in light: if we maintain that we are pure and free from all stain of sin. St. John is writing to persons whose sins have been forgiven them (ch. 1Jn 2:12 ), and therefore necessarily the present tense ἔχομεν refers not to any previous state of sinful life before conversion, but to their now existing state and the sins to which they are liable in that state. And in thus referring, it takes up the conclusion of the last verse, in which the onward cleansing power of the sanctifying blood of Christ was asserted: q. d. this state of needing cleansing from all present sin is veritably that of all of us: and our recognition and confession of it is the very first essential of walking in light. The Socinian interpreters, Socinus, Schlichting, and following them Grotius, go in omnia alia, and understand the passage of sins before conversion, or of the general imputation of sin. And our own Hammond has been entirely led away from the sense of the passage by the unfortunate notion of Gnostics being every where aimed at in this Epistle: imagining that their profession of perfection while living impure lives was here intended. See these erroneous interpretations refuted at length in Lücke and Düsterdieck),  we are deceiving ourselves (causing ourselves to err from the straight and true way),  and the truth (God’s truth, objective)  is not in us (has no subjective place in us. That truth respecting God’s holiness and our own sinfulness, which is the very first spark of light within, has no place in us at all. It would be mere wasting of room and of patience, at every turn to be stating and impugning the inadequate interpretations of the Socinian Commentators and of their followers, Grotius, Semler, &c. It may be sufficient here just to notice Grotius’s “non est in nobis studium veri,” and Semler’s “castior cognitio.” Even Lücke has gone wrong here; “  die Selbsttäuschung verubet auf Mangel an innerem Wahrheitssinn und ist dieser Mangel selbst .”
	 ἑαυτούς = ἡμᾶς αὐτούς , see Winer):  if we confess our sins (it is evident, from the whole sense of the passage, which has regard to our walking in light and in the truth, that no mere outward lip-confession is here meant, nor on the other hand any mere being aware within ourselves of sin (as Socinus: “confiteri significat interiorem ac profundam suorum peccatorum cognitionem”), but the union of the two, an external spoken confession springing from genuine inward contrition. As evident is it, that the confession here spoken of is not confined to confession to God, but embraces all our utterances on the subject, to one another as well as to Him; cf. James 5:16 ; and see more below),  He (God, the Father; not, Christ, though this may at first sight seem probable from 1Jn 1:7 and ch. 1 John 2:1 ; nor, the Father and Christ combined, as Lange and Sander hold. God is the chief subject through the whole passage: cf. ὁ θεός , 1 John 1:5 ; μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ , 1 John 1:6 ; αὐτός , and τοῦ υἱοῦ αὐτοῦ , in 1 John 1:7 . It is ever God’s truth (1 Corinthians 1:9-10 ; 1 Corinthians 1:13 ; 2Co 1:18 ; 1Th 5:24 ) and righteousness (John 17:25 ; Romans 3:25 ; Rev 16:5 ) that are concerned in, and vindicated by, our redemption)  is faithful and just (His being faithful and just does not  depend on our confessing our sins: He had both these attributes before, and will ever continue to have them: but by confessing our sins, we cast ourselves on, we approach and put to the proof for ourselves, and shall find operative in our case, in the ἀφῇ and καθαρίσῃ , &c., those His attributes of faithfulness and justice.
	On the former of these adjectives,  πιστός , almost all Commentators agree. It is, faithful to His plighted word and promise: see reff. and citations above. Œc. and Thl. alone have given a singular and not very clear interpretation: πιστὸν δὲ τὸν θεὸν ἀντὶ τοῦ ἀληθῆ εἴρηκε . πιστὸς γὰρ οὐ μόνον ἐπὶ τοῦ πεπιστευμένου , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐπὶ τοῦ πιστωτικοῦ εἴρηται , ὃς ἀπὸ τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ ἀληθοῦς τρόπου ἔχει καὶ τὸ τοῖς ἄλλοις τούτου μεταδιδόναι . The latter,  δίκαιος , has not been so unanimously interpreted. The idea of God’s  justice seeming strange here, where the remission of and purification from sin is in question, some Commentators have endeavoured to give δίκαιος the sense of  good, merciful : so Grot., Rosenm.; or, which amounts to the same,  fair, favourably disposed : so Semler, Lange, Carpzov Bretschn. Lex. But Lücke has shewn, that in none of the O. T. passages which are cited to substantiate these meanings, have they really place; but in all, righteousness, justice, is the fundamental idea, and the context only makes it mean, justice in this or in that direction. See note on Matthew 1:19 . The meaning then being  just , we have still to decide between several different views as to what particular phase of the divine justice is meant. Some, as Calov., Wolf, al., understand that God’s justice has been satisfied in Christ, and thus the application of that satisfaction to us if we confess our sins, is an act of divine justice: is due to us in Christ. But this is plainly too much to be extracted from our verse. In Romans 3:26 , where this  is asserted, the reason is given, and all is fully explained: whereas here the ellipsis would be most harsh and unprecedented, and thus to fill it up would amount to an introduction into the context of an idea which is altogether foreign to it. (The notion that δίκαιος = δικαιῶν need only be mentioned to refute itself: Rom 3:26 is decisive against it.) The correct view seems to be, that δίκαιος as well as πιστός here is an attribute strictly to be kept to that which is predicated of it under the circumstances, without entering upon reasons external to the context. God is  faithful , to His promise: is  just , in His dealing: and both attributes operate in the forgiveness of sins to the penitent, now and hereafter; and in cleansing them from all unrighteousness. The laws of His spiritual kingdom require this: by those laws He acts in holy and infinite justice. His promises announced it, and to those promises he is faithful: but then those promises were themselves made only in accordance with his nature, who is holy, just, and true. In the background lie all the details of redemption, but they are not here in this verse: only the simple fact of God’s justice is adduced)  to forgive us our sins (  ἵνα here is not = ὥστε : it is not “so as to forgive, &c.,” but “that He may forgive, &c.” His doing so is in accordance with, and therefore as with Him all facts are purposed, is in pursuance of, furthers the object of, His faithfulness and justice. “So that He is faithful and just, in order that He may, &c.” See Joh 4:34 note: reff. here: and Winer, § 44. 8  c. With regard to the particular here mentioned, ἵνα ἀφῇ ἡμῖν τὰς ἁμαρτίας is the continued remission of the guilt of each committed sin, which is the special promise and just act of God under the Gospel covenant: see Hebrews 10:14 ; Heb 10:18 ),  and cleanse us from all unrighteousness (the explanation of the sense, see above. Here  ἀδικίας is used, in reference to δίκαιος above, as corresponding to ἁμαρτίας in 1 John 1:7 . The divine δικαιοσύνη is revealed in God’s law: every transgression then of that law ( ἁμαρτία , ἀπὸ τοῦ ἁμαρτάνειν τοῦ σκόπου : cf. Theodorus Abukara in Suicer, s. v. ἁμαρτία ) is of its nature and essence an ἀδικία , an unrighteousness, as contrary to that δικαιοσύνη . Observe, the two verbs are aorists, because the purpose of the faithfulness and justice of God is to do each as one great complex act to justify and to sanctify wholly and entirely.