 7 .] (is not merely the contrasted hypothesis to 1 John 1:6 , but together with that contains a further unfolding of the subject):  but if (see on  ἐάν with the subj. above)  we walk in the light (this walking in the light is explained by what follows, ὡς αὐτός ἐστιν ἐν τῷ φωτί , and by the apodosis, which gives the result of so walking, viz. communion, &c. See Ephesians 5:8 ff. for the ethical details),  as He (God)  is in the light (because the Christian is made θείας κοινωνὸς φύσεως , 2 Peter 1:4 .  ἔστιν ἐν τῷ φωτί is parallel with φῶς ἐστίν above, 1 John 1:5 .  ἔστιν , as of Him who is eternal and fixed;  περιπατῶμεν , as of us who are of time, moving onward: so Bed [6] , “notanda distinctio verborum, quia Deum esse in luce dicit, nos autem in luce ambulare debere. Ambulant enim justi in luce, cum virtutum operibus servientes ad meliora proficiunt:” see note on ch. 1 John 2:6 ; τὸ φῶς is the element in which God dwelleth: cf. 1 Timothy 6:16 . Notice that this walking in the light, as He is in the light, is no mere imitation of God, as Episcopius, al., but is an identity in the essential element of our daily walk with the essential element of God’s eternal being: not imitation, but coincidence and identity of the very atmosphere of life),  we have communion with one another (these words,  κοινωνίαν ἔχομεν μετ  ʼ   ἀλλήλων , are to be taken in their plain literal sense, and refer, not to our communion with God, which is assumed in our walking in the light as He is in the light, but to our mutual communion with one another by all having the same ground-element of life, viz. the light of the Lord, Isaiah 2:5 . This has been very commonly misunderstood: e. g. by Œc. ( ὥστε τῆς κοινωνίας ἐχόμενοι τῆς ἀλλήλων , δῆλον δὲ ὅτι τῆς ἡμῶν τε καὶ τοῦ φωτός , so Thl. also), Schol. in Oxf. Cat., Aug [7] (“ut possimus societatem habere cum illo”), Beza (“interpretor cum illo mutuam: agitur enim nunc de communione non sanctorum inter se, sed Dei et sanctorum”), Calv., Socinus, al.: even De Wette interprets “  Gemeinschaft unter einander, namlich mit Gott ” and Bengel wavers between the two. The words are taken rightly by Bed [8] (who however regards them as putting forward mutual love as the necessary result of walking in the light), Erasmus, Lyra, Luther, Grot., Estius, (Bengel,) Lücke, Baumg.-Crus., Neander, Sander, Düsterd., al. The words are evidently an allusion to 1 John 1:3 , and as there communion with God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ is expressed, so here it lies in the background, but need not be supplied. De Wette’s remark is most true; Christian communion is then only real, when it is communion with God),  and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanseth us from all sin (in order to understand rightly this important sentence, we must fix definitely two or three points regarding its connexion and construction. First then,  καί connects it, as an additional result of our walking in the light, as He is in the light, with κοινωνίαν ἔχομεν μετ ʼ ἀλλήλων : just as in ch. 1 John 3:10 , end,  καὶ ὁ μὴ ἀγαπῶν τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ . Consequently, the proposition contained in it cannot be as Œc., Thl., Beza, Wolf, Sander, al., imagine, the  ground ( καὶ  γάρ ) of the former one, that “if we walk, &c., we have communion, &c.,” but follows as a co-ordinate result with κοιν . ἔχ . κ . τ . λ . Secondly,  καθαρίζει is the present tense, and must be kept to its  present meaning. This consideration precludes all such meanings as the former of the two given by Jerome (“quod scriptum est ‘et sanguis Jesu filii ejus mundat nos ab omni peccato’ tam in confessione baptismatis, quam in clementia pœnitudinis accipiendum est,” adv. Pelag. ii. 8, vol. ii. p. 750), and Bed [9] (“sacramentum namque (  καί ) dominicæ passionis et præterita nobis omnia in baptismo pariter peccata laxavit (notice the past tense), et quidquid quotidiana fragilitate post baptisma commisimus ejusdem Redemtoris nostri gratia dimittit”): and as that of Calvin (“hæc igitur summa est, ut certo statuant fideles se acceptos esse Deo, quia sacrificio mortis Christi illis placatus est”), Calovius, Episcopius, al.  Thirdly , the  sense of  καθαρίζει must be accurately ascertained and strictly kept to. In 1 John 1:9 , ἵνα καθαρίσῃ ἡμᾶς ἀπὸ πάσης ἀδικίας is plainly distinguished from ἵνα ἀφῇ ἡμῖν τὰς ἁμαρτίας : distinguished, as a further process; as, in a word, sanctification, distinct from justification. This meaning then, however much it may be supposed, that justification is implied or presupposed, must be held fast here.  Fourthly , the sense of  τὸ αἷμα Ἰησοῦ must be also clearly defined. The expression is an objective one, not a subjective: is spoken of that which is the objective cause ab extra, of our being cleansed from all sin. And this is the material Blood of Jesus the personal Redeemer, shed on the cross as a propitiatory sacrifice for the sin of the world. So we have the same Blood said in Col 1:20 to be the great medium of pacification between God and the world: so in Ephesians 1:7 , to be the means of our ἀπολύτρωσις : so in Hebrews 9:14 , which approaches very nearly to our passage, to cleanse ( καθαρίζειν as here) our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. In all these places, and similar ones, whatever application to ourselves by faith or otherwise may lie in the background, it is not that which is  spoken of , but the Blood of Christ itself, as the actual objective cause, once for all, of our reconciliation and sanctification. These considerations remove much of the difficulty and possible misunderstanding of the sentence. Thus understood, it will mean, much as in the second clause of Bede’ [10] interpretation, that this our walking in light, itself necessarily grounded in communion with the Father and the Son, will bring about, that whatever sins we may still be betrayed into by the infirmity of our nature and the malice of the devil, from them the Blood of Jesus purifies us day by day. Observe, not, the  application of that Blood: for we are speaking of a state of faith and holiness, in which that blood is continually applied: the περιπατεῖν ἐν τῷ φωτί  is , in fact,  the application : is that, which, as a subjective conditional element, makes that Blood of Christ’s cross to be to us a means of purifying from all sin. The whole doctrine of this verse is fully and admirably set forth in Düsterdieck. The sum of what he says may be thus stated. St. John, in accord with the other Apostles, sets forth the Death and Blood of Christ in two different aspects: 1) as the one sin-offering for the world, in which sense we are justified by the application of the Blood of Christ by faith, His satisfaction being imputed to us. 2) as a victory over Sin itself, His blood being the purifying medium, whereby we gradually, being already justified, become pure and clean from all sin. And this application of Christ’s blood is made by the Spirit which dwelleth in us. The former of these asserts the imputed righteousness of Christ put on us in justification: the latter, the inherent righteousness of Christ, wrought in us gradually in sanctification. And it is of this latter that he here is treating. Cf. next verse).
	 [6] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [7]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [8] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [9] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [10] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.