 5 .] In each of these divisions, the first verse contains the ground-tone of the whole. And so here GOD IS LIGHT.  And (  καί is not a sequence on what goes before (  igitur , Beza) any further than it refers back by the words ἀγγελία ἣν ἀκηκόαμεν to ὃ ἀκηκόαμεν ἀπαγγέλλομεν above. It serves to introduce the new subject)  the message (De Wette supposes ἀγγελία to be a correction from the more difficult ἐπαγγελία . But as Düsterdieck has well argued, the great manuscript authority for ἀγγ ., combined with the fact that in ch. 1Jn 3:11 ἐπαγγ . is also read, and with this also, that ἐπαγγ . is a very common word in the N. T., whereas ἀγγ , occurs only in these two places, precludes De W.’s supposition. The correction from ἀγγ to ἐπαγγ . was very obvious from ch. 1 John 2:25 , which also suggested transposing ἔστιν αὕτη to αὕτ . ἐστ .)  which we have heard from Him (viz. from Christ),  and announce to you (“quod filius annunciavit a patre, hoc apostolus acceptum a filio renunciat nobis.” Erasm. Düsterd. remarks that St. John seems every where to observe the distinction between ἀν - and ἀπ - αγγέλλειν , to  announce and to  declare . And to this distinction ἀγγελία here exactly corresponds (as Bengel, “quæ in ore Christi fuit ἀγγελία , eam Apostoli ἀναγγέλλουσι : nam ἀγγελίαν ab ipso acceptam reddunt et propagant”); whereas ἐπαγγελία , which means in the N. T. nothing but “  promise ” (neither in 2 Timothy 1:1 , nor in Act 23:21 has it any other sense; see note on the latter place), seems to carry no meaning here, and has, as above, evidently crept in from ch. 1Jn 2:25 ),  is this (  αὕτη predicate, as always in such sentences):  that God is light (not, as Luther, “a light:”  φῶς is purely predicative, indicating the essence of God: just as when it is said in ch. 1 John 4:8 , ὁ θεὸς ἀγάπη ἐστίν . There it is true the predicative is purely ethical, and thus literal, when used of God who is a Spirit, whereas here, φῶς being a material, not an ethical object, some amount of figurative meaning must be conceded. But of all material objects, light is that which most easily passes into an ethical predicative without even the process, in our thought, of interpretation. It unites in itself purity and clearness and beauty and glory, as no other material object does: it is the condition of all material life and growth and joy. And the application to God of such a predicative requires no transference. He is Light, and the Fountain of light material and light ethical. In the one world, darkness is the absence of light: in the other, darkness, untruthfulness, deceit, falsehood, is the absence of God. They who are in communion with God, and walk with God, are of the light, and walk in the light),  and there is not in Him any darkness at all (it is according to the manner of St. John, to strengthen an affirmation by the emphatic negation of its opposite; cf. 1 John 1:8 ; ch. 1 John 2:4 ; 1Jn 2:10 ; 1 John 2:27 , &c. Of the ethical darkness here denied, the Schol. says, οὔτε γὰρ ἄγνοια , οὔτε πλάνη , οὔτε ἁμαρτία , οὔτε θάνατος . The  οὐδεμία strengthens the negative “no, not even one speck.” The Greek expositors ask the question respecting this message, καὶ ποῦ τοῦτο ἤκουσε ; and answer it, ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ τοῦ χριστοῦ , ἐγώ εἰμι τὸ φῶς τοῦ κόσμου λέγοντος . Their reply is right, but their reference to those words of our Lord is wrong. It was ἀπ ʼ αὐτοῦ τοῦ χριστοῦ : viz. from the whole revelation, in doings and sufferings and sayings, of Him who was the ἀπαύγασμα τῆς δόξης of the Father. With that revelation those His words admirably and exactly coincided: but they were not the source of the message, referring as they did specially to Himself, and not directly to the Father. In His whole life on earth, and in the testimony of His Spirit, ἐκεῖνος ἐξηγήσατο αὐτόν . So that this message is the result of the whole complex of 1Jn 1:1 ).