 1 4 .] INTRODUCTION: THE PERSONAL AUTHORITY OF THE WRITER, AND OBJECTS OF THE EPISTLE. This Epistle does not begin with an  address , properly so called. But there is in this sentence the latent form of an address: the ὑμῖν of 1 John 1:3 , and the ἵνα ἡ χαρὰ .… πεπληρωμένη , answering to the more usual χαίρειν , seem to shew that what follows is an Epistle, not a treatise.
	The construction of these verses is difficult, and has been variously given. The simplest view, and that generally adopted (Syr., Vulg., Œc., Bullinger, Calv., Beza, Socinus, Grot., Calov., Fritzsche, Lücke, De Wette, Huther, &c.) is, that in 1 John 1:1 a sentence is begun, which is broken off by the parenthetical 1Jn 1:2 inserted to explain 1 John 1:1 , and carried on again in 1 John 1:3 , some words being, for the sake of perspicuity, recited again from 1 John 1:1 . This construction was doubted by Winer in the earlier editions of his Grammar, but has now in the 6th edit. been adopted (§ 63, i. 1, note). The smaller clauses, ὃ ἦν , ὃ ἀκηκόαμεν , &c., are co-ordinate with each other, not to be arranged as subject and predicate, as Capellus, “quod erat ab initio, hoc ipsum est, quod audivimus, &c.” or, as Paulus, who begins his predicatory apodosis at καὶ αἱ χεῖρες , “  that which, &c., &c., our hands also have handled .” So that there is no need to adopt Calvin’s solution of “abrupta et confusa oratio:” the sentence and construction flow smoothly and regularly.
	 That which was (not ‘  took place ,’ as Crell., Schöttg., al.  ἦν is not = ἐγένετο , as their very marked distinction in John 1:1 ff. might have shewn. See this idea discussed and refuted in a note to the dissertation de Epistt. Johannearum locis difficilioribus, in the Fritzschiorum Opuscula, p. 284 ff.: and in Düsterdieck’s Comm. in loc. Œc. and Thl. say well, τὸ δὲ  ἦν τοῦτο οὐ χρονικὴν παρίστησιν ὕπαρξιν , ἀλλ ʼ ἐνυποστάτου πράγματος οὐσίαν )  from the beginning (  ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς is not synonymous with ἐν ἀρχῇ , though in the depth of its meaning it is virtually the same. It sets before us the terminus a quo, but without meaning strictly to define it as such exclusively. So μέχρι , ἄχρι , and words of this kind are not unfrequently used: see Fritzsche on Matt. p. 53 f.: and cf. Acts 20:6 , Romans 8:22 , 2 Corinthians 3:14 .
	The interpretation, “  Since the beginning of the Gospel ,” is connected with the misunderstanding of the whole passage by the Socinian interpreters, and cannot stand for a moment when we consider the context with 1 John 1:2 , and the use of ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς by St. John when applied to Christ or to supernatural beings: see reff. Wherever he uses it of the preaching of the Gospel, it is definitely marked as bearing that meaning: cf. ch. 1 John 2:7 ; 1Jn 2:24 , 1 John 3:11 . On the meaning of this clause, see below),  that which we have heard (the perfect extends the reference of the verb from the beginning, and that which the Apostle might have heard concerning Christ, e. g. from John the Baptist, down to the time when he was writing; regards his hearing as a finished and abiding possession. This verb,  ἀκηκόαμεν , rules the form of the sentence: hence περί below: see more there),  that which we have seen with our eyes (the same is true again. The seeing as well as the hearing is a finished and abiding possession. The clauses rise in climax: seeing is more than hearing:  τοῖς ὀφθ  .   ἡμῶν emphasizes the fact of eye-witness),  that which we looked upon (now, the tense is altered: because the Evangelist comes from speaking of the closed testimony which abode with him as a whole, to that of the senses actually exercised at the time when Christ was on earth. Notice the climax again: θεᾶσθαι , ‘intueri,’ to look upon: ὁρᾷν , merely ‘videre,’ to see: so Beza here: “quod ego his oculis vidi, idque non semel nec obiter, sed quod ego vere et penitus sum contemplatus.” See more below),  and our hands handled (“attulerunt viri docti John 20:20 ; John 20:27 ; Luke 24:39 . Sed nihil hujusmodi opus est. An probandum, Johannem, amatissimum et ἐπιστήθιον Christi discipulum, Dominum suum manibus contrectasse?” Fritzsche, Opusc. p. 295. These words are not for a moment to be washed out with a ‘veluti’ or ‘quasi:’ they are literal matter of fact, and form one of the strongest proofs that what is said, is said of no other than the personal incarnate Son of God)  concerning the Word of life (the  construction seems to be this: the περί depends strictly upon ἀκηκόαμεν , loosely upon the other clauses. The  exegesis turns wholly upon the sense which we assign to the words  τοῦ λόγου τῆς ζωῆς : and here there has been great diversity among Commentators. This diversity may be gathered under two heads: those who make λόγου the personal hypostatic Logos, who is ζωή , and those who make it the account, or preaching, or doctrine, concerning ζωή . Of this  latter number, are for the most part, Socinus and his school (see an exception below), and some few other expositors, e. g., Grotius, Semler, Rosenmüller. Of recent writers, the most distinguished is De Wette. The  former , including Œc., Thl., Aug. [1] (“forte de verbo vitæ sic quisque accipiat quasi locutionem quandam de Christo, non ipsum corpus Christi quod manibus tractatum est. Videte quid sequatur:  et ipsa vita manifestata est . Christus ergo verbum vitæ.” In Ep. Joh. Tract. i. 1, vol. iii. p. 1978), Bed [2] , Calvin (gives both), Beza, Luther, Schlichting (“id est de Jesu quem suo more Sermonem appellat”), Episcopius (who however strikes a middle course, “utrumque simul intelligi, Evangelium, quatenus partim ab ipso Christo revelatum est, partim de ipso Chr. J. agit”), Calov., Bengel, Wolf, Lücke, Fritzsche, Baumg.-Crus., Sander, Huther, al., have been most worthily represented among modern Commentators by O. F. Fritzsche, in his Commentatio I. de Epistolarum Johannearum locis difficilioribus, in the Fritzschiorum Opuscula, pp. 276 ff. And with his interpretation,  in the main , I agree, diverging from him in some points of more or less importance. And as this  περὶ τοῦ λόγου τῆς ζωῆς is the keystone of the sentence, it will be well to set out the interpretation once for all. I regard then ὁ λόγος τῆς ζωῆς as the designation of our Lord Himself. He is the λόγος , and is the λόγος τῆς ζωῆς , this gen. being one of apposition, as He describes Himself as being the ζωή , John 11:25 ; John 14:6 , the ἄρτος τῆς ζωῆς , John 6:35 ; John 6:48 ; the φῶς τῆς ζωῆς , John 8:12 ; cf. also 1 John 1:4 . This being so, the  ὃ  ,   ὃ  ,   ὃ  ,   ὃ  , are all matters concerning, belonging to, regarding, Himself, the Lord of Life: all zeugmatically predicated of Him by the  περί , which more properly belongs to the one verb ἀκηκόαμεν (notice that in 1 John 1:5 , where the nature of the ἀγγελία is stated, ἀκηκόαμεν alone, of all these verbs, is repeated). The  ὃ ἦν ἀπ  ʼ   ἀρχῆς is His eternal præ-existence and inherent Life and Glory with the Father: this is what, in a sense slightly, though but slightly differing from the common one, may be said to have been ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς περὶ τοῦ λόγου τῆς ζωῆς : that which was inherent indeed in Him, but by being announced to you, takes the form of being περί Him; His well-known character and attribute. The ὃ ἀκηκόαμεν , ὃ ἑωράκαμεν τοῖς ὀφθαλμ . ἡμῶν , hold a middle place between the eternal and præ-existent and the cosmical and human things περὶ τοῦ λόγου τῆς ζωῆς : the hearing of the ear embracing all the teaching of the Lord respecting ὃ ἦν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς , and the seeing of the eye taking in both His glory, as on the Mount of Transfiguration, and the human Body which He assumed, with all its actions and sufferings: cf. John 19:35 . Then, still lingering on the combined testimony to his præ-existent glory and His human presence in the flesh, he adds,  ὃ ἐθεασάμεθα , which ‘contemplari,’ as he himself tells us, saw through the human into the divine, John 1:14 (so Bed [3] : “perspexerunt, cujus divinam quoque virtutem spiritalibus oculis cernebant”), besides its earnest and diligent observation of His human life (‘  mit allem Fleiss und genau beschauet und betrachtet ,’ Luther. But when Œc. and Thl. say θεᾶσθαι ἐστὶ τὸ μετὰ θαύματος κ . θάμβους ὁρᾷν , it is more than is in the word or in the context). Finally, he comes down to that which though the most direct and palpable proof for human testimony, is yet the lowest, as being only material and sensuous, the ( ὃ )  αἱ χεῖρες ἡμῶν ἐψηλάφησαν . All this concerning Him, who is ὁ λόγος τῆς ζωῆς , as recapitulated again in 1Jn 1:3 under its two great heads,  ὃ ἑωράκαμεν κ  .   ἀκηκόαμεν  , we  ἀπαγγέλλομεν καὶ ὑμῖν . I would refer the reader who wishes to see the various other interpretations discussed, to the dissertation of Fritzsche before named: to Huther’s Commentary: to Brückner’s ed. of De Wette’s Handbuch, where the other view from that taken here is ably defended: and to the Commentary of Düsterdieck, who has gone at great length into the history of the exegesis. Lücke, in loc., has very fairly stated, and refuted, the Socinian view which makes  ὅ to be the teaching of Jesus from the beginning of His official life onwards, and (cf. Socinus in loc.) ὁ λόγος τῆς ζωῆς , as in ch. 1 John 2:7 , ὁ λόγος ὃν ἠκούσατε : rightly stating the fatal and crucial obstacle to this view to consist in αἱ χεῖρες ἡμῶν ἐψηλάφησαν , which none of its advocates can in any way get over: from Œc. and Thl. who interpret it μετὰ πολλὴν ψηλάφησιν ( τουτέστι συζήτησιν , adds Œc.) ἐρευνῶντες τὰς περὶ αὐτοῦ μαρτυρούσας γραφάς , to Grot., who supplies “panes multiplicatos, Lazarum,” &c., and De Wette, who explains it to mean “  die Bestatigung des Gesehenen zur vollen Realitat mit demjenigen Sinne, welcher keine Tauschung zulässt ,” evading the direct application of the words to the human body of Jesus).  And the life (i. e. the Lord Himself who is the Life, ἡ αὐτοζωή , ἡ πηγάζουσα τὸ ζῇν , as Matthai’s Catena: cf. John 1:4 , ἐν αὐτῷ ζωὴ ἦν . This verse is parenthetical, taking up the last clause, and indeed the whole sense, of 1 John 1:1 , and shewing how the testimony there predicated became possible)  was manifested (from being invisible, became visible: see reff.),  and we have seen (it), and bear witness (of it), and declare (the verb  ἀπαγγέλλομεν does not, either here or below, refer to the declaration in this present Epistle: it is the general declaration, in word and writing, of which the γράφομεν below, 1 John 1:4 , is the special portion at present employed)  to you that life which is eternal (it is better thus, with Fritzsche, to supply an object for ἑωράκαμεν and μαρτυροῦμεν from ἡ ζωή above, than, with Lücke, to carry on the sense from them to τὴν ζωὴν τ . αἰώνιον below: for if this latter be done, 1) the sentence drags, by the verbal portion of its last clause being overdone; 2) the middle term between the manifestation and the announcement, viz. the sight and testimony of the announcer, would be wanting: 3) it is not the ζωὴ αἰώνιος , but the ζωή in Christ, which the Evangelist saw and of which he witnessed, and the predicative epithet ἡ αἰώνιος first comes in with the verb ἀπαγγέλλομεν ),  the which (  ἥτις identifies not the individual only, but the species also: and thus gives a sort of causal force, ‘quippe quæ.’ The force of this here, as Düsterdieck remarks, is to refer the ἦν πρὸς τὸν πατέρα back to the ὃ ἦν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς : q. d. “that very before-mentioned life, which was with the Father”)  was with the Father (see on John 1:1 . The prep. implies not juxtaposition only, but relation: hardly however, as some here,  love : at the same time it sets forth plainly the distinction of Persons: as Basil: ἵνα τὸ ἰδιάζον τῆς ὑποστάσεως παραστήσῃ … ἵνα μὴ πρόφασιν δῷ τῇ συγχύσει τῆς ὑποστάσεως ),  and was manifested to us (here the parenthesis ends, and the construction of 1Jn 1:1 is resumed. But on account of the distance at which that verse now stands, the leading particulars of its sense are recapitulated. Huther objects to the parenthetical view, that ὃ ἑωρ . κ . ἀκηκ . is not a full resumption, ὃ ἦν ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς not appearing in it. But it is included in the hearing, as the other sensuous clause in the seeing):  that which we have heard and seen, we declare to you also (the  καί of the old MSS. here seems to give to the Epistle the character of being addressed to some special circle of Christian readers, beyond those addressed at the conclusion of the Gospel, ch. John 20:31 , or we may, with Socinus (in Huther), take the καί as indicating “vos, qui nimirum non audistis, nec vidistis, nec manibus vestris contrectastis verbum vitæ.” But the other is more likely: a supposition which is confirmed when we look further into it: see the Prolegomena. It is quite beyond all probability that the καί should have been inserted to suit καὶ ὑμεῖς which follows, as De Wette imagines: far more probable that the very occurrence of those words so near made it seem superfluous, or even that it was erased to give the Epistle a more general character, as ἐν Ἐφέσῳ , ἐν Ῥώμῃ , at the opening of those Epistles),  in order that ye also (see above)  may have communion with us (not, as Socinus (“non nos solum, sed vos etiam nobiscum eam communionem cum patre et filio habeatis”), Episcopius (“ τό  nobiscum nihil aliud sibi vult, quam ‘sicut nos habemus’ ”), Bengel (“eandem, quam nos, qui vidimus”),  the same communion which we have , viz. that presently mentioned: but in the sense of κοιν . μετά immediately following, and in 1 John 1:6-7 , communion  with us , the Apostle and eye-witnesses (for thus I would take the ἡμεῖς throughout, and not, as Fritzsche, al., of the Evangelist himself only: “nobiscum, i. e. mecum”): τὸ γενέσθαι ἡμῶν κοινωνοί , as Schol. in Cramer’s Catena; being bound in faith and love to them, as they were to Christ.  ἔχειν must not be taken, with Corn.-a-lap., for “  pergere et in ea proficere et confirmari ,” nor with Fritzsche, for “  to obtain ,” “assequi,” but in its simple meaning,  to have, to possess . It may be very true, as Fr. insists, that here the Evangelist is speaking of his general work in the world, and below, 1 John 1:4 , the special object of writing this Epistle comes in: but even thus, the end proposed is simply that they might κοινωνίαν ἔχειν in the ordinary sense, of course by acquiring it; but this is not of necessity in the word ἔχειν ):  and indeed (see reff. for  καὶ δέ . Here its use is to bring up something connected with what went before by καί , but contrasted with it by the δέ : the contrast here lying in the immeasurably more solemn and glorious character of the second κοινωνία , as compared with the first, which is the inlet to it: q. d. “and this κοινωνία μεθ ʼ ἡμῶν will not stop here: for we are but your admitters into &c.” See this same  coupled contrast in reff.)  our communion is (“pessime vulg. Grot., al.  sit. ” Fritz. Even Augustine, Bed [4] , Erasm. (paraphr., not in notes), Luth., Calv., take this: against which the  δέ is decisive)  with the Father and with (observe the repeated  μετά , distinguishing the Personality, while the very fact of the κοινωνία with Both unites the Two in the Godhead. It is not, communion with God and us, but with us, whose communion is with God, the Father and the Son)  His Son Jesus Christ (the personal and the Messianic Names are united, as in John 1:17 , where He is first mentioned, as here. The question has been sometimes asked, why we have not here καὶ μετὰ τοῦ πνεύματος τοῦ ἁγίου ? The answer to which is not, as Lücke, because the divine Personality of the Holy Ghost was not found in the apostolic mode of thought (“scheint mir nicht in der apostolischen Denkweise zu liegen”), but because, the blessed spirit being God dwelling in man, though we may be said to have τὴν κοινωνίαν τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος , 2 Corinthians 13:13 , we would hardly be said to have κοινωνίαν  μετὰ τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος ).  And these things (i. e. this whole Epistle: not, as Sander, the foregoing, nor as De Wette (altern.), and Düst., the immediately following)  we write (the reading  ἡμεῖς finds no favour with most of the modern critical editors, as neither does ἡμῶν below. It is objected to the former, that thus an irrelevant emphasis will be introduced into the clause. But it has not been observed, that it is in St. John’s manner thus to use ἡμεῖς with a verb, perhaps without any especial emphasis being conveyed: e. g. John 8:48 , οὐ καλῶς λέγομεν ἡμεῖς …, where as here the pron. follows the verb: ib. John 9:29; John 9:29 ( 1Jn 3:14 ), al. Besides which, the ἡμεῖς is by no means otiose here, whether we read ὑμῶν or ἡμῶν below. If the former, the contrast would be plain: if the latter, we must take this ἡμεῖς to be the apostolic first person “I, as one of the eye and ear witnesses:” and the ᾑμῶν following in a wider sense, “our joy” “the joy of us and you:” or, it may be, our joy in accomplishing the end and bringing you into communion with us and through us with the Father and the Son: so Thl.: ἡμῶν γὰρ ὑμῖν κοινωνούντων πλεῖστον ἔχομεν τὴν χαρὰν ἡμῶν , ἣν τοῖς θερισταῖς ὁ χαίρων σπορεὺς ἐν τῇ τοῦ μισθοῦ ἀντιλήψει βραβεύσει χαιρόντων καὶ τούτων ὅτι τῶν πόνων αὐτῶν ἀπολαύουσι . Similarly Œc.: Schol. in catena, ἐπειδὰν δὲ ταύτην ἔχητε κοινωνίαν , χαρᾶς ἐσόμεθα μεστοί , ὅτι τῷ θεῷ ἐκολλήθημεν : Bed [5] , “gaudium Doctorum sit plenum, cum multos prædicando ad sanctæ Ecclesiæ societatem, atque ad ejus per quem Ecclesia roboratur et crescit, Dei Patris et Filii ejus Jesu Christi, societatem perducunt:” referring to Philippians 2:2 , πληρώσατέ μου τὴν χαράν , κ . τ . λ . As regards possibility of change of reading, it is far more probable that the not very obvious ἡμεῖς and ἡμῶν should have been altered to the very obvious ὑμῖν and ὑμῶν , so exactly correspondent to John 15:11 ; Joh 16:24 ),  that our (see above)  joy may be full (this rendering better represents the perfect than “  may be filled up ,” which would indicate the process rather than the completion. The joy spoken of is the whole complex of the Christian life here and hereafter; its whole sum is, JOY. As Düsterdieck beautifully says, “The peace of reconciliation, the blessed consciousness of sonship, the happy growth in holiness, the bright prospect of future completion and glory, all these are but simple details of that which in all its length and breadth is embraced by one word, Eternal Life, the real possession of which is the immediate source of our joy. We have joy, Christ’s joy, because we are blessed, because we have Life itself in Christ.” He quotes Augustine, Confess. x. 22 (32), vol. i. p. 793: “Est enim gaudium quod non datur impiis, sed eis tantum qui te gratis colunt, quorum gaudium tu ipse es. Et ipsa est beata vita gaudere ad te, de te, propter te, ipsa est et non altera.” It has been noticed before, sub initio, that this verse fills the place of the χαίρειν so common in the opening of Epistles, and gives an epistolary character to what follows).
	 [1] Aug.  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [2] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [3] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [4] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	 [5] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.