Leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ [αφεντες τον της αρχης του χριστου λογον] . Lit. leaving the word of the beginning concerning Christ. jAfentev leaving or dismissing does not imply ceasing to believe in elementary truths or to regard them as important, but leaving them "as a builder leaves his foundation in erecting his building" (Bruce). The word of the beginning of Christ is practically = the rudiments of the beginning, ch. 5 12; that rudimentary view of Christ 's person and office which unfolds into the doctrine of his priesthood. Up to this point the writer has shown only that the permanent elements of the old covenant remain and are exalted in Christ. The more difficult point, which it will require matured perception to grasp, is that Christ 's priesthood involves the entire abolition of the old covenant. Let us go on unto perfection [επι την τελειοτητα φερωμεθα] . Lit. let us be born on to completeness. The participial clause, leaving, etc., is related to the verbal clause as expressing a necessary accompaniment or consequence of the latter. Let us be born on to completeness, and, because of this, leave, etc. This sense is not given by the Rev. Teleiothv only here and Colossians 3:14. Rend. completeness. The completeness is viewed as pertaining to both the writer and the readers. He proposes to fully develop his theme : they are exhorted to strive for that full Christian manhood which will fit them to receive the fully - developed discussion. Not laying again the foundation (mh palin qemelion kataballomenoi). Not explanatory of leaving, etc. The following words, describing the elements of the foundation, - repentance, baptisms, etc., - simply illustrate in a general way the proposal to proceed to the exposition of the doctrine of Christ 's priesthood. The illustrative proposition is that a building is not completed by lingering at the foundation; and so Christian maturity is not to be attained by going back to subjects which belong to the earliest stage of Christian instruction. He purposely selects for his illustration things which belong to the very initiation of Christian life. Dead works [νεκρων εργων] . The phrase only in Hebrews. Comp. ch. Hebrews 9:14. Not sinful works in the ordinary sense of the term, but works without the element of life which comes through faith in the living God. There is a sharp opposition, therefore, between dead works and faith. They are contraries. This truth must be one of the very first things expounded to a Jew embracing Christianity.