Every man according as he purposeth in his heart,.... Which is not to be understood of the quantity, or any set sum he has fixed upon in his mind to give; but of the quality or nature of giving; or of the manner in which he is to give:so let him give; of his own will and free choice, from his very heart; not as directed and forced by others, but according to his own counsel and determination:not grudgingly; or not of grief; with pain and uneasiness of mind, grieving at parting with what is given, reflecting on the persons that move him to it, or on the objects moved for. The Jews g reckon this the lowest degree of all in giving alms; "when a man gives to anyone" בעצב, "with grief", to which the apostle seems to refer: who adds,or of necessity; of force, by coaction, being obliged to it by the influence, example, or commands of superiors; or through the powerful motives, or prevailing entreaties of others; for without these, men, according to their abilities, should give of themselves freely and liberally:for God loveth a cheerful giver; or one that gives בסבר פנים יפות, "with a cheerful countenance", as the Jews h say; or as elsewhere i, "with a cheerful heart": their rule is this,"he that doth the commandment, i.e. alms, let him do itבלב שמח, "with a cheerful heart".''Who looks pleasantly on the person or persons that move him to it, or on the object to whom he gives; who parts with his money willingly, and takes delight in doing good to others; such givers God loves: not that their cheerful beneficence is the cause of his special peculiar love to them in his own heart, which arises from nothing in man, or done by him; but the meaning is, that God does well to such persons; shows his love to them; he lets them know how kindly he takes such acts of theirs, by prospering and succeeding them in their worldly affairs. In the Septuagint in Proverbs 22:8 are these words, "God blesses a cheerful man, and a giver", which the apostle refers to.g Maimon. Mattanot Anayim, c. 10. sect. 14. h Maimon. Mattanot Anayim, c. 10. sect. 13. i Vajikra Rabba, fol. 174. 1. Parash. 34.