Galatians 5:22-23.  But the fruit  of the Spirit  is love, joy,  peace, longsuffering, benignity, goodness, faithfulness, meekness, temperance.  A string of pearls. One ‘fruit,’ in distinction of the many ‘works of the flesh,’ indicates the unity of the spiritual graces which are comprehended in love (Galatians 5:14; comp. Ephesians 5:9 ‘the fruit of the light,’ and Galatians 5:11 ‘the unfruitful works of darkness).’ ‘The fruit is produced by the grace of God; the works of the flesh spring from ourselves’ (Chrysostom). The list differs widely from pagan catalogues of virtues which have no place for love, humility, and meekness, joy and peace, nor any of the more delicate graces of the Spirit of God. There are four groups: (1.) ‘Love,’ the fundamental Christian grace which comprehends all others and ‘holds heaven and earth in its embrace.’ (2.) ‘Joy’ and ‘peace,’ the fundamental state of the Christian, his inward happiness, cheerfulness, and tranquility which results from the remission of sin, the reconciliation to God, and the prospect of heaven. No one can be truly happy in this world who is not sure of eternal happiness in the world to come. (3.) ‘Long suffering,’ ‘benignity,’ ‘goodness,’ ‘faithfulness’ (or fidelity), ‘meekness,’ are various forms of unselfish charity towards our fellow-men. ‘Long-suffering’ denotes patient endurance under injuries; ‘benignity,’ kindly disposition; ‘goodness,’ active benevolence; ‘faithfulness’ (not ‘faith’ towards God), is here fidelity, trustfulness in our dealings with others (‘love believeth all things,’ 1 Corinthians 13:7), in opposition to suspicion and distrust; ‘meekness’ (or gentleness), a mild and patient temper which bears and overcomes injuries (comp. Matthew 5:5; Psalms 37:11). (4.)’ Self-control’ (temperance) refers to our conduct towards ourselves, and embraces moral self-government and moderation in all things, in opposition to carnal self-indulgence and intemperance in eating and drinking (comp. Acts 24:25; 1 Corinthians 7:9). Luther: ‘Jerome expounds this of virginity only, as though they that are married could not be chaste; or as though the Apostle did write these things only to virgins. In the first and second chapter to Titus, he warns all bishops, young women, and married folks, both man and wife, to be chaste and pure.’
	 Against such  (things)  there is no law  (of restraint). The law forbids and restrains sin and vice, but not the works of the Spirit, on the contrary it enjoins them; comp. Galatians 5:18, ‘If ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under (the restraining and condemning power of) the law;’ and 1 Timothy 1:9, ‘Law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners.’ False interpretations: ‘Such  persons  the law does not condemn;’ or ‘Such  persons  need no law.’ The Greek word for ‘such’ is neuter, and refers to the preceding virtues; as ‘such like,’ Galatians 5:21, refers to the preceding vices.
	