23. For the wages of sin is death;
	but the gift of God is eternal life through—"in" 
	Jesus Christ our Lord—This
	concluding verse—as pointed as it is brief—contains the marrow,
	the most fine gold, of the Gospel. As the laborer is worthy of his
	hire, and feels it to be his due—his own of right—so is death the
	due of sin, the wages the sinner has well wrought for, his own. But
	"eternal life" is in no sense or degree the wages of our
	righteousness; we do nothing whatever to earn or become entitled to
	it, and never can: it is therefore, in the most absolute sense, "THE
	GIFT OF GOD."
	Grace reigns in the bestowal of it in every case, and that "in
	Jesus Christ our Lord," as the righteous Channel of it. In view
	of this, who that hath tasted that the Lord is gracious can refrain
	from saying, "Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our
	sins in His own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God
	and His Father, to Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.
	Amen!" (Revelation 1:5; Revelation 1:6).
	Note, (1) As the most
	effectual refutation of the oft-repeated calumny, that the doctrine
	of Salvation by grace encourages to continue in sin, is the holy life
	of those who profess it, let such ever feel that the highest service
	they can render to that Grace which is all their hope, is to "yield
	themselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and their
	members instruments of righteousness unto God" (Romans 6:12;
	Romans 6:13). By so doing they will
	"put to silence the ignorance of foolish men," secure their
	own peace, carry out the end of their calling, and give substantial
	glory to Him that loved them. (2) The fundamental principle of Gospel
	obedience is as original as it is divinely rational; that "we
	are set free from the law in order to keep it, and are brought
	graciously under servitude to the law in order to be free"
	(Romans 6:14; Romans 6:15;
	Romans 6:18). So long as we know no
	principle of obedience but the terrors of the law, which condemns all
	the breakers of it, and knows nothing whatever of grace, either to
	pardon the guilty or to purify the stained, we are shut up under a
	moral impossibility of genuine and acceptable obedience: whereas when
	Grace lifts us out of this state, and through union to a righteous
	Surety, brings us into a state of conscious reconciliation, and
	loving surrender of heart to a God of salvation, we immediately feel
	the glorious liberty to be holy, and the assurance that "Sin
	shall not have dominion over us" is as sweet to our renewed
	tastes and aspirations as the ground of it is felt to be firm,
	"because we are not under the Law, but under Grace." (3) As
	this most momentous of all transitions in the history of a man is
	wholly of God's free grace, the change should never be thought,
	spoken, or written of but with lively thanksgiving to Him who so
	loved us (Romans 6:17). (4)
	Christians, in the service of God, should emulate their former selves
	in the zeal and steadiness with which they served sin, and the length
	to which they went in it (Romans 6:19).
	(5) To stimulate this holy rivalry, let us often "look back to
	the rock whence we were hewn, the hole of the pit whence we were
	digged," in search of the enduring advantages and permanent
	satisfactions which the service of Sin yielded; and when we find to
	our "shame" only gall and wormwood, let us follow a godless
	life to its proper "end," until, finding ourselves in the
	territories of "death," we are fain to hasten back to
	survey the service of Righteousness, that new Master of all
	believers, and find Him leading us sweetly into abiding "holiness,"
	and landing us at length in "everlasting life" (Romans 6:19- :). (6) Death and life are before all men who hear the
	Gospel: the one, the natural issue and proper reward of sin; the
	other, the absolutely free "GIFT
	OF GOD" to
	sinners, "in Jesus Christ our Lord." And as the one is the
	conscious sense of the hopeless loss of all blissful
	existence, so the other is the conscious possession and enjoyment of
	all that constitutes a rational creature's highest "life"
	for evermore (Romans 6:23). Ye that
	read or hear these words, "I call heaven and earth to record
	this day against you, that I have set before you life and death,
	blessing and cursing, therefore choose life, that both thou and thy
	seed may live!" (Deuteronomy 30:19).