4. Therefore we are—rather,
	"were" (it being a past act, completed at once). 
	buried with him, by baptism
	into death—(The comma we have placed after "him"
	will show what the sense is. It is not, "By baptism we are
	buried with Him into death," which makes no sense at all; but,
	"By baptism with Him into death we are buried with Him";
	in other words, "By the same baptism which publicly enters us
	into His death, we are made partakers of His burial
	also"). To leave a dead body unburied is represented, alike in
	heathen authors as in Scripture, as the greatest indignity (Revelation 11:8;
	Revelation 11:9). It was fitting,
	therefore, that Christ, after "dying for our sins according to
	the Scriptures," should "descend into the lower parts of
	the earth" (Ephesians 4:9). As
	this was the last and lowest step of His humiliation, so it was the
	honorable dissolution of His last link of connection with that life
	which He laid down for us; and we, in being "buried with Him by
	our baptism into His death," have by this public act severed our
	last link of connection with that whole sinful condition and life
	which Christ brought to an end in His death. 
	that like as Christ was
	raised from the dead by the glory of the Father—that is, by
	such a forth-putting of the Father's power as was the
	effulgence of His whole glory. 
	even so we also—as
	risen to a new life with Him. 
	should walk in newness of
	life—But what is that "newness?" Surely if our old
	life, now dead and buried with Christ, was wholly sinful, the new,
	to which we rise with the risen Saviour, must be altogether a holy
	life; so that every time we go back to "those things whereof we
	are now ashamed" (Romans 6:21),
	we belie our resurrection with Christ to newness of life, and "forget
	that we have been purged from our old sins" (Romans 6:21- :). (Whether the mode of baptism by immersion be alluded to in
	this verse, as a kind of symbolical burial and resurrection, does not
	seem to us of much consequence. Many interpreters think it is, and it
	may be so. But as it is not clear that baptism in apostolic times was
	exclusively by immersion [see on Romans 6:21- :], so sprinkling and washing are indifferently
	used in the New Testament to express the cleansing efficacy of the
	blood of Jesus. And just as the woman with the issue of blood got
	virtue out of Christ by simply touching Him, so the essence of
	baptism seems to lie in the simple contact of the element with
	the body, symbolizing living contact with Christ crucified; the mode
	and extent of suffusion being indifferent and variable with climate
	and circumstances).