 17 .]  Let the presbyters who well preside (not, as in some former editions,  have well presided : the perf. of ἵστημι has the  present signification throughout. I owe the correction of this inadvertence to Bishop Ellicott. Preside, viz. over their portion of the Church’s work. Chrys. has well expressed the meaning, but not all the meaning; for wisdom and ability must be taken also into account: τί δε ἐστι , καλῶς προεστῶτας , ἀκούσωμεν τοῦ χριστοῦ λέγοντος · ὁ ποιμὴν ὁ καλὸς τὴν ψυχὴν αὐτοῦ τίθησιν ὑπὲρ τῶν προβάτων . ἄρα τοῦτό ἐστι καλῶς προεστάναι , μηδενὸς φείδεσθαι τῆς ἐκείνων κηδεμονίας ἕνεκα ),  be held worthy of double (not, as compared with the  widows , as Chr., (alt. 1: διπλῆς τῆς πρὸς τὰς χήρας , ἢ τῆς πρὸς τοὺς διακόνους , ἢ ἁπλῶς διπλῆς τιμῆς , πολλῆς λέγει ), Thl. (1), Constt.-ap. (ii. 28, p. 674, Migne), Erasm., Calv., al., the  deacons , as Chr. (2, see above), Thl. (2), the  poor , as Flatt, &c. but as compared with those who have not distinguished themselves by καλῶς προεστάναι ; and evidently, as Chrys. 3, it is not to be taken in the mere literal sense of  double , but implies increase generally see reff., and below)  honour (so Plato, Legg. v. p. 378 D, τίμιος μὲν δὴ καὶ ὁ μηδὲν ἀδικῶν · ὁ δὲ μηδ ʼ ἐπιτρέπων τοῖς ἀδικοῦσιν ἀδικεῖν πλέον ἢ διπλασίας τιμῆς ἄξιος ἐκείνου : and see other examples in Wetstein. From the general tenor of those, as well as from the context here, it is evident that not merely honour, but  recompense is here in question: but the word need not be  confined to that meaning: honour, and honour’s fruit, may be both included in it. Grot. conceives an allusion to the double portion of the first-born ( Deu 21:17 ): Elsner, to the double share of provision which used to be set before the presbyters in the Agapæ (Heydr., Baur: cf. Constt.-apost. as above). But as De W. remarks, that practice was much more probably owing to a misunderstanding of this passage):  especially those that labour in (the)  word and teaching (therefore the preaching of the word, and teaching, was  not the office of all the πρεσβύτεροι . Conyb. rightly remarks, that this is a proof of the early date of the Epistle. Of these two expressions, λόγος would more properly express  preaching ; διδασκαλία , the work of  instruction , by catechetical or other means).