 1, 2 .]  Injunctions respecting his behaviour to the elder and younger of either sex .
	 πρεσβυτέρῳ ] The reference to an  office was called in question as early as Chrys. ἆρα τὸ ἀξίωμα νῦν φησιν ; οὐκ ἔγωγε οἶμαι , ἀλλὰ περὶ παντὸς γεγηρακότος . This indeed is evident from the quadruple specification in these verses. So even Mack, though he maintains that the νεώτεροι of Act 5:6 were official. Leo, as cited by Wiesinger, gives well the connexion with the last chapter: “quum supra scripsisset, nemini licere ex juventute Timothei ejus despiciendi occasionem sumere, nunc jam ipsum hortatur Timotheum, ut semper memor suæ νεότητος ita se gerat erga seniores uti revera deceat virum juniorem.” But this connexion must not be too closely pressed. Some important general instructions have intervened since the μηδείς σου τῆς νεότηος καταφρονείτω .
	 ἐπιπλήξῃς ] Thus Il. μ . 211, Ἕκτορ , ἀεὶ μέν πώς μοι ἐπιπλήσσεις ἀγορῇσιν | ἐσθλὰ φραζομένῳ .
	 ἀλλὰ παρακάλει ] ὡσανεὶ πρὸς πατέρα , φησί , προσενεχθείης ἁμαρτάνοντα , οὕτω πρὸς ἐκεῖνον διαλέγου , Chrys.
	 νεωτέρους ] understand παρακάλει . Thus the prohibition, μὴ ἐπιπλήξῃς , applies to all, all being included in the παρακάλει which is the other and adopted alternative.
	 ὡς ἀδελφούς ] as on an equality with them, not lording it over them.
	 ὡς ἀδελφάς ] ‘Hic respectus egregie adjuvat castitatem,’ Bengel. μηδὲ ὑποψίαν , φησί , δῷς . ἐπειδὴ γὰρ αἱ πρὸς τὰς νεωτέρας γενόμεναι ὁμιλίαι δυσκόλως διαφεύγουσιν ὑποψίαν , δεῖ δὲ γίνεσθαι παρὰ τοῦ ἐπισκόπου καὶ τοῦτο , διὰ τοῦτο “ ἐν πάσῃ ἁγνείᾳ ” προστίθησι . Chrys. See similar sentiments from profane writers in Wetst. The Commentators cite the apologist Athenagoras (legat. pro christ. 32, p. 310): καθ ʼ ἡλικίαν τοὺς μὲν υἱοὺς κ . θυγατέρας νοοῦμεν , τοὺς δὲ ἀδελφοὺς ἔχομεν καὶ ἀδελφάς · καὶ τοῖς προβεβηκόσι τὴν τῶν πατέρων καὶ μητέρων τιμὴν ἀπονέμομεν . “The rule of Jerome (Ep. 52 (2). 5, vol. i. p. 259) is simple: ‘omnes puellas et virgines Christi aut æqualiter ignora aut æqualiter dilige.’ ” Ellic.