 4 .] The case of the χήρα who is not ὄντως χήρα , having earthly relations answerable for her support.
	 ἔκγονα ] τέκνα τέκνων , Hesych.;  grandchildren : not as E. V. ‘  nephews ;’ at least, not in its present sense.
	 μανθανέτωσαν ] What is the subject? (1) The ancient Commentators mostly understand αἱ χῆραι , implied in τίς χήρα : so vulg. (  discat : also D-lat, 2 cursives have μανθανέτω ), Chr. (see below), Thdrt., Œc., Jer., Pel., Ambr., Luth., Calv., Grot., Calov., Huther, al. (2) But some of the ancients took τὰ τέκνα ἢ ἔκγονα as the subject: e.g. Œc. 2, Thl., and so Beza, Wolf, Mosh, Wegscheid: Heydenr., Flatt, Mack, De W., Wiesinger, Ellicott. There is much to be said for both views; and as we advance, we shall give the interpretations on both hypotheses, (1) and (2).
	 πρῶτον ] Either, ‘  first of all duties ,’ which seems supported by 1Ti 5:8 below; or  first , before applying to the church for sustenance. These meanings will apply to both the above alternatives: whether we understand the subject to be the  widows , or the  children and grandchildren .
	 τὸν ἴδιον οἶκον εὐσεβεῖν ] On hypothesis (1),  to behave piously towards , i.e.  to rule religiously (Luth.; so vulg.), their own household. This seems somewhat to force εὐσεβεῖν , see below; while the sense of τὸν ἴδιον οἶκον is thus the simple and usual one, as the widow in question would be the head of the household. On hypothesis (2),  to behave piously towards , i.e.  to honour with the honour which God commands , their own family, i.e. the widowed mother or grandmother who is one of their own family. This sense of εὐσεβής , εὐσέβεια , and εὐσεβέω , is common enough (see especially Palm and Rost’s Lex.): the reference being generally (not always, it is true) to superiors, those who demand σέβας , those who stand in the place of God. This sense of τὸν ἴδιον οἶκον is not so usual, but not therefore to be rejected. To dishonour their widowed mother or grandmother, would be to dishonour their own family, in that one of its members who most required respect.
	 καὶ ἀμοιβὰς ἀποδιδόναι τοῖς προγόνοις ] On hypothesis (1), as Chrys., ἀπῆλθον ἐκεῖνοι · οὐκ ἠδυνήθης αὐτοῖς ἀποδοῦναι τὴν ἀμοιβήν · οὐ γὰρ δὴ καὶ αὐτὴ ἐγέννησας ἐκείνους , οὐδὲ ἀνέθρεψας . ἐν τοῖς ἐκγόνοις αὐτοῦ ἀμείβου · ἀποδίδου τὸ ὀφείλημα διὰ τῶν παιδῶν . But surely it is a very strange way of requiting one’s progenitors for their care of us, to be kind towards our own children: and besides, what would this have to do with the question, whether or not the widow was to be put on the charity roll of the church? But on hypothesis (2), this sentence certainly becomes more clear and natural. Let them, the children or grandchildren, learn first to be piously grateful to (these members of) their own families, and to give back returns (a return in each case) to their progenitors (so called, although living, because, the  mother and grandmother having been both mentioned, πρόγονοι was the only word which would include them in one category).
	 τοῦτο γὰρ …] see ch. 1 Timothy 2:3 .