 19 .] See the summary above.  Against a presbyter (Chrys., Thl., are certainly wrong in supposing that age, not office is again here indicated: the whole passage is of presbyters by office cf. 1Ti 5:22 below)  entertain not an accusation, except (reff. pleonastic expressions such as ἐκτὸς εἰ μή , χωρὶς εἰ or εἰ μή , are found in later writers, such as Plutarch, Dio Cassius, &c.: we have πλὴν εἰ μή in Demosth. 141. 21, 719. 1: Aristot. de Anim. i. 5. 9, al. See Lobeck on Phrynichus, p. 459)  before (lit.  in presence of ; and perhaps we ought to press the meaning: but from the occurrence of ἐπὶ στόματος δύο μαρτ . κ . τ . λ . in ref. Deut., it is more likely figurative, ‘in the presence of,’ signifying merely ‘  vorhandenseyn ,’ their presence in the case)  two or three witnesses (De W. asks, but were not these required in every case, not only in that of a presbyter? Three answers are given: one by Chrys. ( τὸ δὲ ἐπὶ ἄλλων , φησί , μάλιστα δὲ κατὰ πρεσβυτέρου ), Thdrt. ( συμβαίνει γὰρ ἐκκλησίας αὐτὸν προστασίαν πεπιστευμένον καὶ λυπῆσαι τῶν ἁμαρτανόντων τινάς , εἶτα ἐντεῦθεν ἐκείνους δεομένως διατεθέντας συκοφαντίαν ὑφῆναι . δεῖ τοίνυν ἀπαντῆσαι τῶν μαρτύρων τὸν ἀριθμόν ), and so Calvin at more length: the other by Huther, that Timotheus was not constituted judge in private men’s matters, only over the officers of the church in faults with which they might be charged as regarded the execution of their duty: a third by Bengel, ‘privatus poterat, lege Mosis, citari uno teste, non condemnari: presbyterum ne citari quidem Paulus jubet, &c.’ But this is manifestly a distinction without point the κατηγορίαν παραδέχεσθαι being used not of mere citation, but of entertaining the charge as a valid one: in other words, as including citation and conviction as well. So nearly Grotius, but bringing out a different distinction, which is manifestly here not in question ‘poterat ad unius testis dictum vir plebeius capi aut contra eum inquisitio incipi: non ita autem contra Senatorem, cui æquiparatur Presbyter.’ The first reason seems the more probable: that he is only recalling the attention of Timotheus to a known and prescribed precaution, which was in this case especially to be always observed. Somewhat otherwise Ellicott: see his note).