 8 .]  τίς , not only of the τέκνα ἢ ἒκγονα above, or any persons connected with widows, but the saying is perfectly general, grounding their duties on an axiomatic truth. Agreeably with their former interpretation, Chrys., &c. regard  τίς as meaning ‘a widow:’ Calv. and Thdrt. unite both, widows and children.
	 οἱ ἴδιοι seem to be generally any connexions,  οἱ οἰκεῖοι , those more immediately included in one’s own family as dwelling in the same οἶκος see reff. Mack is certainly wrong in regarding οἰκεῖοι (without τῆς πίστεως ) as meaning those connected by the faith. The omission of the article (see var. readd.) would make the two belong to one and the same class.
	 οὐ προνοεῖ , viz. in the way noted above, of support and sustenance. Notice εἰ οὐ , in its regular usage, the negation being closely connected with the verb: “neglects to provide.” On the construction of προνοεῖν , see Ellic.’s note.
	 τὴν πίστιν ἤρνηται ] ‘fides enim non tollit officia naturalia, sed perficit et firmat.’ Bengel.
	The Roman-Catholic Commentator Mack has some good remarks here, on the faith of which the Apostle speaks: “Faith, in the sense of the Apostle, cannot exist, without including love: for the subject-matter of faith is not mere opinion, but the grace and truth of God, to which he that believes gives up his spirit, as he that loves gives up his heart: the subject-matter of faith is also the object of love. Where therefore Love is not, nor works, there is not, nor works, Faith either: so that he who fulfils not the offices of love towards his relatives, is virtually an unbeliever.”
	 ἀπίστου χείρων ] For even among heathens the common duties of family piety are recognized: if therefore a Christian repudiates them, he lowers himself beneath the heathen. Cf. Matthew 5:46-47 . Also, as Calv. suggests in addition, the Christian who lives in the light of the Gospel, has less excuse for breaking those laws of nature which even without the Gospel are recognized by men.
	According to hypothesis (1) or (2) above, this general statement applies to the widows or to their children and grandchildren: not, as Matthies, to their  mutual relations, about which the context contains no hmt. But surely it would be very harsh to understand it of the widows: and this forms an additional argument for hypothesis (2).