 13 .]  Moreover they also learn to be idle (so Syr., Chr., Thl., Beza, Huther, Winer, Ellic. (“It is needless to say that Winer does not conceive ‘an ellipsis of οὖσαι for εἶναι .’ Bloomf., a mistake of which such a scholar could not be capable.” Ellic. edn. 1), al.; a harsh construction, but, it is said, not without example: however, the only one cited is from Plato, Euthyd. p. 276 b: οἱ ἀμαθεῖς ἄρα σοφοὶ μανθάνουσι , where the word σοφοί does not occur in Bekker’s text, and seems on critical grounds very suspicious. Still, I conceive that the present sentence will admit of no other construction, on account of the emphatic position of ἀργαί , which is further heightened by οὐ μόνον δὲ ἀργαί below. De W. objects to it, that idleness is the cause, not the effect, of going about, &c.: but it may well be answered, that not only does a spirit of idleness give rise to such going about, but such going about confirms the habit of idleness.
	Bengel would lay the stress on μανθάνουσιν ‘reprehenditur  discendi genus: sequiturque species,  discunt, quæ domos obeundo discuntur , i.e. statum familiarum curiose explorant.’ But μανθ . does not seem to bear this meaning. The usual interpretation has been to take περιερχ . as an infin., ‘  learn to go about :’ so vulg., Luth., &c.: but the objection to this is, that μανθάνω with a participle always means  to be aware of, take notice of , the act implied in the verb: e.g. διαβεβλημένος ὑπὸ Ἀμάσιος οὐ μανθάνεις , Herod. iii. 1)  going about from house to house (lit. “the houses,” viz. of the faithful. For the construction compare Matthew 9:35 , περιῆγεν ὁ Ἰησοῦς τὰς πόλεις :  but not only (  to be )  idle, but also gossips ( περιοδεύουσαι τὰς οἰκίας , οὐδὲν ἀλλ ʼ ἢ τὰ ταύτης εἰς ἐκείνην φέρουσι , καὶ τὰ ἐκείνης εἰς ταύτην . Thl. ‘Ex otio nascebatur curiositas, quæ ipsa garrulitatis est mater.’ Calv.)  and busybodies (reff.),  speaking (not merely ‘  saying :’ the subject-matter, as well as the form, is involved in λαλοῦσαι )  things which are not fitting (his fear is, that these younger widows will not only do the Church’s work idly, but make mischief by bearing about tales and scandal).
	 I will (consult Ellic.’s note on βούλομαι . We may generally state that θέλω is the resting inclination of the will, βούλομαι its active exertion)  then (“ οὖν has here its proper collective force, ‘in consequence of these things being so, I desire.’ ” Ellic.)  that younger widows (such, and not the younger  women , is evidently the Apostle’s meaning. ( χήρας is supplied in several cursives, Chr., Thdrt., Jer.) The whole passage has concerned  widows and to them he returns again, 1Ti 5:16 )  marry (not as Chrys., ἐπειδὴ αὐταὶ βούλονται βούλομαι κἀγώ … ἔδει μὲν οὖν τὰ τοῦ θεοῦ μεριμνᾷν , ἔδει τὴν π στιν φυλάττειν . ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐκεῖνα οὐ γίνεται , βέλτιον ταῦτα γενέσθαι (so also, characteristically, the R.-Cath. Mack): for it is not younger widows  who have been taken into the catalogue of πρεσβύτιδες of whom he is speaking, but  younger widows in general : Chrys.’s interpretation would make the Apostle contradict himself. The οὖν on which Mack lays stress as favouring this meaning, simply infers from the temptations of young widows just described. There is no inconsistency here with the view expressed in 1 Corinthians 7:39-40 ; the time and circumstances were different),  bear children, govern households (i.e. in their place, and with their share of the duties: οἰκουρεῖν , as Chrys. Both these verbs belong to later Greek: cf. Lobeck on Phryn., p. 373),  give no occasion (starting-point, in their behaviour or language)  to the adversary (who is meant? Chrys. and the ancients for the most part understand,  the devil ( μὴ βουλόμενος τὸν διάβολον ἀφορυὴν λαμβάνειν ): and so, lately, Huther, defending it by his interpretation of λοιδορίας χάριν (see below). But St. Paul’s own usage of ἀντικείμενος (reff., see also Tit 2:8 ) is our best guide. Ordinarily using it of human adversaries, he surely would here have mentioned ὁ διάβολος , had he intended him. And the understanding him to be here meant brings in the next verse very awkwardly, as he there has an entirely new part assigned him. Understand therefore, any adversary, Jew or Gentile, who may be on the watch to get occasion, by the lax conduct of the believers, to slander the Church)  for the sake of reproach (to be joined with ἀφορμήν : the ἀφορμή , when taken advantage of by the adversary, would be used λοιδορίας χάριν , for the sake and purpose of reproaching the people of God. Mack would join λ . χ . with βούλομαι , most unnaturally: ‘I will, on account of the reproach which might otherwise come on the Church, νεωτέρας γαμεῖν &c.:’ Leo, with τῷ ἀντικειμένῳ , which would more naturally be τῷ λοιδορίας χάριν ἀντικειμένῳ .
	 λοιδορία must be kept to its true sense,  reproach brought on the Gospel; not forced, as Huther, for the sake of his view of ὁ ἀντικείμενος , to that of disgrace brought on the church by the fall of the widows);  for already (‘particula provocat ad experientiam,’ Beng.)  some (widows)  have been (we are obliged here to give a  perfect rendering in English. Our language will not, as the habit of mixed constructions in the Greek permits, bear the placing an indefinite past event in a definite portion of time such as ἤδη expresses)  turned away (out of the right path, ref.)  after (so as to follow)  Satan (‘eoque occasionem dedere calumniæ,’ Beng. When De W. doubts whether St. Paul’s experience could have been long enough to bear out such an assertion and thus impugns the genuineness of the Epistle, this is very much a matter of dates: and even taking the earliest commonly assigned, the assertion might be strictly true, applying as it does not only to Ephesus, but to the far wider range of his apostolic ministry).