Verse 33. With great power gave the apostles witness — This power they received from the Holy Spirit, who enabled them, μεγαλη δυναμει, with striking miracles, to give proof of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus; for this is the point that was particularly to be proved: that he was slain and buried, all knew; that he rose again from the dead, many knew; but it was necessary to give such proofs as should convince and confound all. This preaching and these miracles demonstrated this Divine truth: Jesus died for your sins-he rose again for your justification; behold what God works in confirmation of these glorious truths; believe therefore in the Lord Jesus, and ye shall not perish, but have everlasting life.Great grace was upon them all. — They all received much of the favour or grace of God; and they had much favour with all who feared God. In both these ways this clause may be understood; for χαρις means favour, whether that be evidenced by benevolence or beneficence, or by both. The favour of God is the benevolence of God; but his benevolence is never exerted without the exertions of his beneficence. Hence the grace or favour of God always implies a blessing or gift from the hand of his mercy and power. The favour or benevolence of men may exist without beneficence, because it may not be in their power to communicate any gift or benefit, though they are disposed to do it; or, 2dly. the persons who enjoy their favour may not stand in need of any of their kind acts; but it is not so with God: his good will is ever accompanied by his good work; and every soul that is an object of his benevolence stands in the utmost need of the acts of his beneficence. Hence, as he loved the world, he gave his Son a ransom for all. All needed his help; and, because they all needed it, therefore all had it. And truly we may say of the whole human race, for whom the Son of God tasted death, that great grace was upon all; for ALL have been purchased by his sacrificial death. This by the way.