 1 .]  In many portions (for the usage of  πολυμερῶς and of its cognate adj. πολυμερής , we have two passages of Maximus Tyrius, in which πολύτροπος is also conjoined with it: Dissert. xvii. 7, τῇ τοῦ ἀνθρώπου ψυχῇ δύο ὀργάνων ὄντων πρὸς σύνεσιν , τοῦ μὲν ἁπλοῦ , ὃν καλοῦμεν νοῦν , τοῦ δὲ ποικίλου καὶ πολυμεροῦς καὶ πολυτρόπου , ἃς αἰσθήσεις καλοῦμεν : and ib. vii. 2, οὐθὲν δεῖ τῆς πολυμεροῦς ταύτης κ . πολυτρόπου μούσης τε καὶ ἁρμονίας : also ib. xxxix. 2, τὸ πολυμερὲς καὶ πολύφωνον τοῦ τῶν σωμάτων πολέμου , ἃς καλοῦμεν νόσους : Plut. de Virt. Mil. p. 757 D, ποικίλον τι δρᾶμα κ . πολυμερές : id. de Invid. et Odio, p. 537 D, τοῦ Θεοσίτου ὁ ποιητὴς τὴν μὲν τοῦ σώματος κακίαν πολυμερῶς καὶ περιοδευμένως ἐξεμόρφωσε , τὴν δὲ τοῦ ἤθους μοχθηρίαν συντομώτατα κ . δι ʼ ἑνὸς ἔφρασεν . Aristotle (in Stephanus, but without a reference) has πολυμερέστατος πόντος , also De Part. Anim. iv. 7.1, τῶν ὀστρακοδέρμων οὐκ ἔστι τὸ σῶμα πολυμερές , and Plato, Tim. Locr. p. 98 D, ὕδατος στοιχεῖον πολυμερέστατον . Hesychius interprets the adj. εἰς πολλὰ μεριζόμενον ; and the adverb, πολυσχεδῶς . Hence we may gather the meaning to be ‘in many portions,’ or ‘parts,’ manifoldly as regards the  distribution . “Non enim omnia, nec eadem, omnibus prophetis revelata sunt, sed quasi partibus mysteriorum distributis: alia aliis inspirata. Exempli caussa; Jesaiæ, partus virginis et passio Christi: Danieli, tempus adventus ejus: Jonæ, ejusdem sepultura: Malachiæ, adventus præcursoris. Ac rursum aliis plura, aliis pauciora.” Estius.  πολυμερῶς says Thdrt., τὰς παντοδαπὰς οἰκονομίας σημαίνει . So that “  at sundry times ” is not an accurate rendering: nor can it be said as by the schol. in ms. 113, cited by Bleek ( τὸ πολυμερῶς τὸ διάφορον τῶν καιρῶν αἰνίττεται , καθ ʼ οὓς ἕκαστός τις τῶν προφητῶν μερικήν τινα ἐνεχειρίζετο οἰκονομίαν ), Calvin, Bleek, Lünemann, al., to  express the meaning:  time is a historical condition of the sequence of parts,  persons to whom , an anthropological condition, but it does not follow that ‘  at sundry times ,’ or ‘  to sundry persons ,’ gives the force of ‘  in divers parts :’ because it might be the same thing which was revealed again and again. This revelation in portions, by fragments, in and by various persons, was necessarily an imperfect revelation, to which the one final manifestation in and by One Person is properly and logically opposed, without any ἐφάπαξ or ἁπλῶς as Tholuck seems to desiderate in the apodosis)  and in divers manners ( ἄλλως γὰρ ὤφθη τῷ Ἀβραάμ , κ . ἄλλως τῷ Μωυσῇ , κ . ἑτέρως Ἡλίᾳ , κ . ἄλλως τῷ Μιχαίᾳ . καὶ Ἡσαΐας δὲ κ . Δανιὴλ κ . Ἰεζεκιὴλ διάφορα ἐθεάσαντο σχήματα . Thdrt. Bleek remarks that in Numbers 12:6-8 , the diversity of manner of revelation is recognized: dreams and visions being set beneath that open speaking, mouth to mouth, which the Lord used towards His servant Moses. Wetst. cites a remarkable parallel from Eustathius, where, speaking of Odysseus, he says, πολυτρόπως ἀνεγνωρίσθη πᾶσιν οῖς ἦλθεν εἱς γνῶσιν , μηδενὸς αναγνωρισμοῦ συμπεσόντος ἑτέρῳ ἀναγνωρισμῷ τὸ σύνολον · ἄλλως γὰρ τῷ Τηλεμάχῳ , ἑτέρως τῇ Εὐρυκλείᾳ , ἑτέρως τοῖς δούλοις , ἄλλον δὲ τρόπον τῷ Λαέρτῃ , καὶ ὅλως ἀνομοίως ἅπασι . See also ref. It will be seen, that I cannot agree with Chrys. and many others in regarding the two adverbs as a mere rhetorical redundance τουτέστι διαφόρως . Both set forth the imperfection of the O. T. revelations. They were various in nature and in form: fragments of the whole truth, presented in manifold forms, in shifting hues of separated colour: Christ is the full revelation of God, Himself the pure light, uniting in His one Person the whole spectrum: see below on ἀπαύγασμα .
	Kypke, Bleek, and others, have pointed out the mistake of Lambert Bos (Observ. Misc. p. 109), who imagined, from the passage of Max. Tyr. Diss. vii. 2, cited above, that these words were originally applied to music)  in time past (generally interpreted of the O. T. period, ending with Malachi. But, as Ebrard well observes, there is no need for cutting off the period there. In the interim between Malachi and the Writer’s time, though the O. T. canon was closed, we cannot say that God’s manifold revelations of Himself had absolutely ceased. Nay, strictly speaking, the Baptist himself belonged to the former, though he pointed on to the latter period. No doubt Bleek is right in denying that he was here in the Writer’s view, and in maintaining that the period of former revelations is here regarded as distinct from the final Christian one: but for all that, we must not put an artificial terminus where he puts none)  God having spoken (see the usage of λαλεῖν in this sense in reff. and Bleek, p. 12)  to the fathers (see usage in reff. It is evident from this term being common to the Writer and his readers, where no reference is made to Jews in the context (as in Rom 9:5 al.), that he was writing as a Jew and to Jews.
	 οἱ πατέρες , “qui in carne et in fide nos genuere.” Ps.-Anselm) in (not = διὰ , though it includes it. The readers of Vol. III. of this work need hardly be reminded that such a rendering of ἐν has never been acquiesced in by me. Nor can I concede to any number of Commentators that, as Primasius here, “Præpositio pro alia præpositione sæpe accipitur, sicut in multis locis epistolæ invenitur his præpositionibus indifferenter uti.” Nor again must we bring in the convenient solution of Hellenism, when we find the same usage in Greek classical writers, and the same inadequacy of explanation of it. In such expressions as  λαλεῖν ἐν , viewed irrespectively of the idea of Beza, “Deum quasi prophetis ipsis insidere,” the ἐν designates the  element in which the λαλεῖν takes place, and holds therefore its own proper force. That we may be sometimes compelled by English idiom to render it ‘  by ,’ is possible, though I do not at present recall any instance: certainly such an one does not occur here, where the contrast is much weakened by making it instrumental, instead of conditional. It may be well to state, that this merging of the proper force of prepositions is not confined to those who deal with Greek as a dead language. Chrys. here says, ἐν υἱῷ , διὰ τοῦ υἱοῦ φησι .… ὁρᾷς ὅτι καὶ τὸ ἐν , διά ἐστι : similarly Œc., Thl., Primasius (above), and in modern times Luther, Calvin, Grot., al., Reiche, Thol., Ebrard, Delitzsch, al. On the other hand, Thos. Aquinas (in Bl.: “Quod prophetæ non ipsi loquuti sunt ex se, sed Deus loquutus est in eis”), Beza (see above), Gerhard, Calov., Seb.-Schmidt, Owen, Wolf, Bengel (“Ergo Deus ipse erat  in prophetis: tum maxime in Filio. Rex mortalis loquitur  per legatum: non tamen in legato”), Uhland, Bleek, De W., Lunemann, al. Erasm.-Schmid, al. take ἐν προφήταις to mean, “in the prophetic writings:” but for this there seems no ground, and thus the antithesis would be marred.
	The sense contended for above agrees with the expressions of Philo, e. g. De Præm. et Pœn. § 9, vol. ii. p. 417, ἑρμηνεὺς γάρ ἐστιν ὁ προφήτης , ἔνδοθεν ὑπηχοῦντος τὰ λεκτέα τοῦ θεοῦ . See also De Monarch. i. 9, pp. 221 f.: De Spec. Leg. § 8, p. 343: Quis Rer. Div. Hær. § 53, vol. i. p. 511: all these are cited in Bl.)  the prophets (to be taken here apparently in the wider sense, as including not only those whose inspired writings form the O. T. canon, but all who were vehicles of the divine self-manifestation to the fathers. Thus Enoch in Jud 1:14 is said προφητεῦσαι . Moses is of course included, and indeed would on any view be the  chief of those here spoken of, seeing that by him the greater part of God’s revelation of Himself to the fathers was made),  at the end of these days (see var. read. In order to understand this expression, it will be well to call to mind certain Jewish modes of speaking of time. The Rabbis divided the whole of time into הָעוֹלָם הַוֶּה , αἰὼν οὗτος , and הָעוֹלָם הַבָּא , αἰὼν ἐρχόμενος , or μέλλων . There has been much learned dispute as to the exact limits of these two: whether the days of the Messiah, יְמַוֹת הַמָּשִׁיחַ , were counted in the former or in the latter. Bleek, aft. Witsius, Rhenferd, and Schöttg., has given Rabbinical passages favouring both views. A safe inference from the whole seems to be, that the days of the Messiah were regarded as a period of transition from the former to the latter, His appearance, as the ushering in of the termination of αἱ ἡμέραι αὗται , the beginning of the end, and His second coming in glory as the συντέλεια τῶν ἡμερῶν τούτων or τοῦ αἰῶνος ( τούτου ). And with this, N. T. usage agrees, see ref. 1 Pet., also James 5:3 ; Jud 1:18 ; 2 Peter 3:3 . Thus  ἐπ  ʼ   ἐσχάτου τῶν ἡμ τούτων would mean, ‘at the end of  this age ,’ in the technical sense of these words as signifying the whole world-period, the ‘terminus ad quem’ of which is the general Resurrection. And thus is the manifestation of Christ in the flesh ever spoken of, and especially in this Epistle: cf. ch. Hebrews 9:26 ; and notes on ch. Hebrews 2:5 ; Hebrews 6:5 . See, on the whole, Bleek’s note; and Stuart’s, who however has mistaken the meaning, in rendering “  during the last dispensation ,” and making τούτων to import that the period had already  begun . It is not of a beginning, but of an  expiring period, the Writer is speaking.
	The ancient expositors principally use these words as ground of  consolation ἐν τούτῳ αὐτοὺς διανίστησι λέγων ὅτι ἡ συντέλεια ἐγγύς . ὁ γὰρ ἐν τῷ ἀγῶνι καταμαλακισθείς , ἐπειδὰν ἀκούσῃ τοῦ ἀγῶνος τὸ τέλος , ἀναπνεῖ μικρόν . Thl. aft. Chr.)  spake (not “  hath spoken :” the ἔσχατον is looked back on as a definite point, at which the divine revelation took place. The attention of the readers is thus directed not so much to the present state in which they are, as to the act of God towards them. Thus, as almost always, the distinction between the aor. and perfect is important)  unto us (i. e. all who have heard that voice, or to whom it is to be announced. There is no distinction between those who received God’s revelation immediately from the Son, and those who received it mediately through others. To this latter number belonged the Writer himself, cf. ch. Heb 2:3 )  in (see above)  his Son (  υἱῷ without the art. is to be noted, and has been variously explained. The omission would not at any time surprise us after a preposition; but here after ἐν τοῖς προφήταις , we should expect, as an antithesis, ἐν τῷ υἱῷ . Hence we must seek a reason beyond that usual idiomatic omission. Emphatic position will often dispense with the art.: and this may be alleged here. But even thus we do not get at the final cause. If the position of υἱῷ , whenever anarthrous, is emphatic  to this extent , it must be for some reason still latent. Some have suggested official denomination, making υἱός into a quasi-proper name. But this again is only an introduction to the final reason.  Why is such an anarthrous name here used, as designating our Lord? And thus we come to the word itself, as we must do in all such cases, for our account of the idiom. And that account here seems to be found in the peculiar and exclusive character of that relation to God, which  υἱός expresses. We may say, that Jesus is ‘  the Son of God :’ by this is definitely enough expressed the fact, and the distinction from other sons of God implied: but we may also say that He is ‘Son of God:’ and we thus give the predicate all fulness of meaning and prominence, and even more emphatically and definitely express the exclusive character of His Sonship. And by this anarthrous appellation does the Writer frequently speak of Him: e. g. ch. Hebrews 7:28 , ὁ νόμος γὰρ ἀνθρώπους καθίστησιν κ . τ . λ .… ὁ λόγος δὲ τῆς ὁρκωμοσίας τῆς μετὰ τὸν νόμον ,  υἱὸν εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα τετελειωμένον : see also Hebrews 3:6 ; Hebrews 5:8 ; Hebrews 7:8 . Nor is the usage confined to him: cf. John 10:36 ; John 19:7 , and in the case of υἱὸς ἀνθρώπου , John 5:27 . So far is this or any other usage of the art. from being “arbitrary,” as Stuart here maintains. I will quote his sentence for a caution to tiros: “After all the rules which have been laid down respecting the insertion or omission of the article in Greek, and all the theories which have been advanced, he who investigates for himself, and is guided only by  facts , will find not a little that is arbitrary in the actual use of it. The cases are certainly very numerous, where Greek writers insert or reject it at pleasure.” The direct contrary of this assertion is the fact, and cannot be too much impressed on every Greek Testament student. The rules respecting the art. are rigid, and are constantly observed; and there is no case of its omission or insertion in which there was not a distinct reason in the mind of the Writer, usually, but not always, discernible by the patient and accurate scholar among ourselves. In this particular case our language, though it allows the predicate in the nominative, ‘Son of God,’ to be used anarthrously, does not allow it to be so used with a preposition, nor in the objective case: so that we are here obliged to take refuge in the nearly equivalent, though not so accurate ‘  in His Son .’ To render it ‘  in a Son ’ would be directly to contravene the logical account of the anarthrousness of the predicate. We might periphrase, ‘in Him who was Son of God.’ We now pass off into a description of the dignity, and person, and work, of this Son of God: which description ends in asserting and proving Him to be higher than angels, the loftiest of created beings),