 4 .]  having become (  γενόμενος , distinct from  ὤν Hebrews 1:3 ; that, importing His essential, this, His superinduced state. This is denied by Chrys. ( τὸ γενόμενος ἐνταῦθα ἀντὶ τοῦ ὰποδειχθείς , ὡς ἂν εἴποι τις , ἐστίν ), Thl. (but not very clearly: ἀντὶ τοῦ ἀποδειχθείς · ὥσπερ καὶ ὁ Ἰωάννης λέγει Ὁ ὀπίσω μου ἐρχόμενος ἔμπροσθέν μου γέγονε · τουτέστιν ἐντιμότερός μου ἀπεδείχθη · οὐ γὰρ δὴ περὶ οὐσιώσεως ἐνταῦθα λέγει ), Estius (“Significatur tum Christum angelis majorem effectum, i. e. excrevisse super angelos in hominum estimatione et fide, postquam cœpit sedere ad dexteram Dei”): but they certainly are wrong. For we are now, in the course of the enunciation, which has advanced to the main subject of the argument, the proving of the superiority of the New Covenant, treating of the post-incarnate majesty of the Son of God. He WAS all that has been detailed in Hebrews 1:3 ; He made purification of sins, and sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, and thus BECAME this which is now spoken of. This is recognized by Thdrt., but in a form not strictly exact: κ . τοῦτο δὲ κατὰ τὸ ἀνθρώπειον εἴρηκεν · ὡς γὰρ θεός , ποιητὴς ἀγγέλων κ . δεσπότης ἀγγέλων · ὡς δὲ ἄνθρωπος , μετὰ τὴν ἀνάστασιν κ . τὴν εἰς οὐρανοὺς ἀνάβασιν κρείττων ἀγγέλων ἐγένετο · ἐπειδὴ καὶ ἐλάττων ἦν ἀγγέλων διὰ τὸ πάθημα τοῦ θανάτου (ch. Heb 2:9 ). ὥσπερ τοίνυν ἐλάττων ἦν ἀγγέλων ὡς ἄνθρωπος , ἐπειδὴ ἐκεῖνοι μὲν ἀθάνατον ἔχουσι φύσιν , αὐτὸς δὲ τὸ πάθος ὑπέμεινεν , οὕτω μετὰ τὴν εἰς οὐρανοὺς ἀνάβασιν κρείττων ἀγγέλων ἐγένετο . To this Bleek very properly objects, that the making this exaltation belong only to Christ’s human nature, and supposing Him to have while on earth possessed still the fulness of the majesty of his Godhead, is not according to the usage of our Writer, nor of the N. T. generally, and in fact induces something like a double personality in the Son of God. The Scriptures teach us, that He who was with God before the creation, from love to men put on flesh, and took the form of a servant, not all the while having on Him the whole fulness of his divine nature and divine glory, but having really and actually emptied himself of this fulness and glory, so that there was not only a hiding, but an absolute κένωσις , a putting off, of it. Therefore His subsequent exaltation must be conceived of as belonging, not to his Humanity only, but to the entire undivided Person of Christ, now resuming the fulness and glory of the Godhead ( Joh 17:5 ), and in addition to this having taken into the Godhead the Manhood, now glorified by his obedience, atonement, and victory. See Ephesians 1:20-22 ; Philippians 2:6-9 ; Acts 2:36 ; 1 Peter 3:21-22 . Œcumenius, as an alternative, has given this well: ἢ τὸ  γενόμενος οὐκ ἐπὶ σαρκὸς ἐκλάβοις , ἵνα μὴ διαιρεῖν νομισθῇς , ἀλλ ʼ ἐπὶ τοῦ χριστοῦ τοῦ ἐν μιᾷ ὑποστάσει προσκυνουμένου , καὶ μετὰ τῆς σαρκὸς αὐτοῦ . The Son of God before his Incarnation was Head  over Creation; but after his work in the flesh He had become also Head  of Creation, inasmuch as his glorified Body, in which He triumphs sitting at God’s right hand, is itself created, and is the sum and the centre of creation)  so much (reff. Bleek cites from Philo, νομίζοντες ὅσῳ θεὸς ἀνθρώπων διαφέρει κατὰ τὸ κρεῖττον , τοσούτῳ καὶ βασιλείας ἀρχιερωσύνην . Leg. ad Cai. § 36, vol. ii. p. 586. In the classics, the idiom is common enough: see Palm and Rost’s Lex. It is wholly unknown to the writings of St. Paul)  better than (the usual word of general and indefinite comparison in our Epistle, whether of Christian with Jewish (ch. Hebrews 7:19 ; Hebrews 7:22 ; Hebrews 8:6 ; Heb 9:23 ), heavenly with earthly (Hebrews 10:34 ; Hebrews 11:16 ; Heb 12:24 ), eternal with temporal ( Heb 11:35 ): see also Hebrews 6:9 ; Hebrews 7:7 ; Hebrews 11:40 . It is used only three times by St. Paul, and never (unless 1Co 12:31 rec. be counted) in this sense: but thirteen times in this Epistle. “The Greeks used οἱ κρείττονες , to signify superhuman beings, gods and demi-gods,” Bl. So on κρείττονας , Æsch. fragm. Ætn. 2, Hesych. says, τοὺς ἥρωας . καὶ οἱ θεοὶ δέ . See also Eurip. Orest. 709: Plato, Sophist. p. 216 (cir. init.): and Philo above)  the angels (of God: the heavenly created beings; afterwards, Hebrews 1:14 , called λειτουργικὰ πνεύ ιατα . All attempts to evade this plain meaning are futile; and proceed on ignorance of the argument of our Epistle, and of the Jewish theology: see some such noticed in Bleek.
	But  why should the angels be here brought in? and why should the superiority of the Incarnate Son of God to them be so insisted on and elaborated? Bl. gives a very insufficient reason, when he says that the mention of God’s throne brought to the Writer’s mind the angels who are the attendants there. The reason, as Ebrard remarks, lies far deeper. The whole O. T. dispensation is related to the N. T. dispensation, as the angels to the Son. In the former, mankind, and Israel also, stands separated from God by sin; and angels, divine messengers (cf. “the angel of the covenant”), stand as mediators between man and God. And of these there is, so to speak, a chain of two links: viz. Moses, and the angel of the Lord. The first link is a mere man, who is raised above his fellow-men by his calling, by his office, the commission given to him, and brought nearer to God; but he is a sinner as they are, and is in reality no more a partaker of the divine nature than they are. The second link is the angelic form in which God revealed himself to his people, coming down to their capacity, like to man, without being man. So that Godhead and Manhood approximated to one another; a man was commissioned and enabled to hear God’s words: God appeared in a form in which men might see Him: but the two found no point of contact; no real union of the Godhead and the Manhood took place. Whereas in the Son, God and the Manhood not only approximated, but became personally one. God no longer accommodates Himself to the capacities of men in an angelophany or theophany, but has revealed the fulness of His divine nature in the man Jesus, in that He, who was the ἀπαύγασμα of His glory, became man. The argument of the Writer necessarily then leads him to shew how  both Mediators, the angel of the O. T. covenant, and Moses, found their higher unity in Christ. First, he shews this of the angel or angels (for it was not always one individual angelic being, but various) by whom the first covenant was given: then of Moses, ch. Hebrews 3:4 . This first portion is divided into two: Hebrews 1:4-14 , in which he shews that the Son, as the eternal Son of God, is higher than the angels (see the connexion of this with the main argument below): then, after an exhortation ( Heb 2:1-4 ) founded on this, tending also to impress on us the superior holiness of the N. T. revelation, the second part ( Heb 2:5-18 ) in which he shews that in the Son, the manhood also is exalted above the angels (mostly from Ebrard)),  in proportion as (see above)  he hath inherited (as his own ( γνήσιον ): the word  κεκληρονόμηκεν being perhaps chosen in reference to the O. T. prophecies, which promised it to Him: see below. The  perfect is important, as denoting something belonging to His present and abiding state, not an event wholly past, as ἐκάθισεν above, indicating the first ‘setting himself down:’ though that word might also be used of a permanent state of session, as in κεκάθικεν , ch. Heb 12:2 )  a more distinguished (or  more excellent , as E. V. This sense of  διάφορος is confined to later writers, as Polybius and Plutarch: e. g. Polyb. vi. 23. 7, ἔχει δ ʼ αὕτη ( ἡ μάχαιρα ) κέντημα διάφορον . So also Symm. in reff. The comparative is found only, besides ref., in Sextus Empir. Phys. i. 218, ὁ δ ʼ Αἰνησίδημος διαφορώτερον ἐπ ʼ αὐτῶν ἔχρητο ταῖς περὶ τῆς γενέσεως ἀπορίαις . For the construction, see below on  παρά )  name (to be taken in its proper sense, not understood, with Beza, Calov., al., to mean precedence or dignity; as Heb 1:5 shews: whence also we get an easy answer to the enquiry,  what name is intended: viz. that of  υἱός , in the peculiar and individual sense of the citation there. The angels themselves are called “  sons of God ,” Job 1:6 ; Job 2:1 ; Job 38:7 ; Daniel 3:25 , and Genesis 6:2 (notwithstanding Ebrard’s denial of this sense: see Delitzsch in loc., Jude 1:6 , note, and Proleg. to Jude, § Heb 1:11 ); but the argument here is, that the title ‘SON OF GOD’ is bestowed on Him individually, in a sense in which it never was conferred upon an angel. This view is far more probable than that of Bleek, who thinks that the Writer used only the LXX, in which ἄγγελοι θεοῦ stands in all these places except Genesis 6:2 , and there in the alex. MS. and Philo: and that he interpreted Psalms 28:1 ; Psalms 88:6 , of other than the angels. To say nothing of  à priori considerations, the canon to be followed in such cases is clearly never to suppose partial knowledge in a sacred writer, except where the nature of the case compels us in common honesty so to do: and here that canon is not applicable. See as a parallel, Philippians 2:9 ff. Still it must be remembered, as Delitzsch beautifully remarks, that the fulness of glory of the peculiar name of the Son of God is unattainable by human speech or thought: it is, Revelation 19:12 , an ὄνομα ὃ οὐδεὶς οἶδεν εἰ μἠ αὐτός . And all the citations and appellations here are but fragmentary indications of portions of its glory: are but beams of light, which are united in it as in a central sun.  Der uberengelische Name selber, den der aus dem Wege der Geschichte zu Gottes Thron Emporsteigende aus immer zu eigen bekommen, hegt jenseit der begrifflich zersplitternden Sprache der Menschen. Die folgenden Schriftworte find nur wie auswarts weisende Finger-zeige, die uns ahnen lassen, wie herrlich er ist .
	 Since when has Christ in this sense inherited this name? The answer must not be hastily made, as by some Commentators, that κεκληρονόμηκεν implies the glorification of the humanity of Christ to that Sonship which He before had in virtue of his Deity: e. g. Œc. (altern.): ἡ κληρονομία κυρίως τῶν προσηκόντων γίνεται , ἀλλ ʼ οὐ τῶν ἠλλοτριωμένων · ἐκληρονόμησεν οὖν , ὅπερ ἄνωθεν ἐνῆν τῷ λόγῳ , τοῦτο πανταχόθεν δι ʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ ἡ προληφθεῖσα σάρξ . τί δέ ἐστι τοῦτο ; τὸ υἱός , τὸ λέγεσθαι τὸν τῶν ὅλων θεὸν πατέρα αὐτῆς , τὸ γεγέννηκά σε . Evidently so partial a reference cannot be considered as exhausting the sense of the Writer. Nor again can we say that it was at the time of His incarnation, though the words of the angel in Luke 1:35 , τὸ γεννώμενον ἅγιον κληθήσεται υἱὸς θεοῦ , seem to favour such a reference: for it was especially at His incarnation, that He was made a little  lower than the angels , ch. Hebrews 2:9 . Rather would the sense seem to be, that the especial name of SON, belonging to Him not by ascription nor adoption, but by his very Being itself, has been ever, and is now, His:  inherited by Him, “quâ γνήσιον ,” as Chrys. says: the O. T. declarations being as it were portions of the instrument by which this inheritance is assured to Him, and by the citation of which it is proved. Observe, that the  κρείττων γενόμενος is not  identical with the  κεκληρονόμηκεν , but  in proportion to it: the triumphant issue of his Mediation is consonant to the glorious name, which is His by inheritance: but which, in the fulness of its present inconceivable glory (see above), has been put on and taken up by Him in the historical process of his mediatorial humiliation and triumph)  than (this construction of a comparative with παρά is never found in St. Paul (Romans 14:5 , is a somewhat doubtful exception, and ἄλλος παρά occurs 1Co 3:11 ), but often in this Epistle; and once in St. Luke (reff.). It occurs in Esdr. 4:35, ἡ ἀλήθεια .… ἰσχυροτέρα παρὰ πάντα : and in Thuc. i. 23: Herod. vii. 103)  they .