 2 .]  whom He constituted (aor., not perfect, referring, as also ἐποίησεν , to the ἐν ἀρχῇ the date of the eternal counsel of God.
	 τίθημι with this double accusative is commonly reputed a Hebraism. But as Bleek remarks, our Epistle is singularly free from Hebraistic constructions, and there is in fact no reason whatever for deducing our present expression from such a source. Elsner gives from Xen. de Rep. Lac. p. 684, θεὶς τοὺς γέροντας κυρίους τοῦ περὶ τῆς ψυχῆς ἀγῶνος : Arrian. Epict. p. 264, τοιοῦτόν σε θῶμεν πολίτην κορωθίων : Eur. Hec. 722: and Bleek from Xen. Cyr. iv. 6. 2, ὥσπερ ἂν εὐδαίμονα πατέρα παῖς τιμῶν τιθείη ) heir ( ἔθηκε κληρονόμον , τουτέστι τοῦτον κύριον ἁπάντων ἐποίησεν … τῷ δὲ τοῦ κληρονόμου ὀνόματι κέχρηται δύο δηλῶν , καὶ τὸ τῆς υἱότητος γνήσιον , καὶ τὸ τῆς κυριότητος ἀναπόσπαστον . Chrys.: and so Thl. “Convenienter statim sub Filii nomen memoratur hæreditas.” Bengel. That  κληρ  . is not equivalent to κύριον simply, is plain: the same expression could not, as Bleek well remarks, have been used of the Father. It is in virtue of the Sonship of our Lord that the Father constituted Him heir of all things, before the worlds began. “In Him also,” says Delitzsch, “culminates the fulfilment of the promise given to the seed of Abraham, τὸ κληρονόμον εἶναι τοῦ κόσμου .” See below. See for St. Paul’s use of the word and image, reff.: and Gal 4:7 )  of all things (neuter: τουτέστι , τοῦ κόσμου παντός , Chr. And we cannot give this a more limited sense, nor restrict it to this world; especially as the subsequent portion of the chapter distinctly includes the angels in it. It is much disputed whether this heirship of Christ is to be conceived as belonging to Him essentially in his divine nature, or as accruing to Him from his work of redemption in the human nature. The Fathers, and the majority of the moderns, decide for the latter alternative. So Chrys., and even more emphatically Thdrt.: ἀπὸ τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων ὁ θεῖος ἀπόστολος ἤρξατο , καὶ τὰ ταπεινότερα πρῶτον λέγων οὕτως ἅπτεται μειζόνων . κληρονόμος γὰρ πάντων ὁ δεσπότης χριστὸς οὐχ ὡς θεός , ἀλλ ʼ ὡς ἄνθρωπος . ὡς γὰρ θεός , ποιητής ἐστι πάντων · ὁ δὲ πάντων δημιουργὸς φύσει πάντων δεσπότης . And so the Socinian and quasi-Socinian interpreters, arriving at the same view by another way, not believing the præ-existence of Christ. But it is plain that such an interpretation will not suit the requirements of the passage. For this humiliation of his, with its effects, first comes in at the end of Hebrews 1:3 . All this, now adduced, is referable to his essential Being as Son of God; not merely in the Godhead before his Incarnation, but also in the Manhood after it, which no less formed a part of His ‘constitution’ by the Father, than his Godhead itself. So that the  ἔθηκεν , as observed above, must be taken not as an appointment in prospect of the Incarnation, but as an absolute appointment, coincident with the σήμερον γεγέννηκά σε , belonging to the eternal Sonship of the Lord, though wrought out in full by his mediatorial work. Delitzsch contends for its exclusive application to the exaltation of Christ in his historical manifestation, beginning with the creation of the world: but I cannot see that he has proved his point),  by whom (see ref. John: as His acting Power and personal instrument: so Thl., aft. Chrys.: ἐπειδὴ δὲ αἴτιος ὁ πατὴρ τοῦ υἱοῦ , εἰκότως καὶ τῶν ὑπ ʼ αὐτοῦ γενομένων · διὰ τοῦτό φησι ,  δι  ʼ   οὗ . ὁ πατὴρ γὰρ δοκεῖ ποιεῖν , ὁ τὸν ποιήσαντα υἱὸν γεννήσας . The idea of Grotius, fortified by a misrendering of Beza’s, Romans 6:4 , that “  δι  ʼ   οὗ ,  per quem , videtur hic recte accipi posse pro  δι  ʼ   ὅν ,  propter quem ,” is only worth recording, to make us thankful that the labours of the great scholars of Germany have brought in a day when it no longer needs refutation)  He also made (  created . According to the ancient arrangement of the words, adopted in the text, the word brought into emphasis by  καί is not τοὺς αἰῶνας , but  ἐποίησεν . And so Bengel, “Emphasis particulæ καί ,  et , cadit super verbum  fecit , hoc sensu: Filium non solum definiit hæredem rerum omnium, ante creationem: sed  etiam fecit per eum sæcula”)  the ages (the meaning of  τοὺς αἰῶνας has been much disputed. The main classes of interpreters are two. 1. Those who see in the word its ordinary meaning of “  an age of time ;” 2. those who do not recognize such meaning, but suppose it to have been merged in that of “  the world ,” or “  the worlds .” To (1) belong the Greek Fathers: Chrys. (see however note on ch. Heb 11:3 ), Thdrt. ( τοῦτο δηλωτικὸν τῆς θεότητος . οὐ μόνον γὰρ αὐτὸν δημιουργόν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀΐδιον ἔδειξεν · ὁ γὰρ αἰὼν οὐκ οὐσία τίς ἐστιν , ἀλλ ʼ ἀνυπόστατον χρῆμα , συμπαρομάρτουν τοῖς γεννητὴν ἔχουσι φύσιν . καλεῖται γὰρ ‘ αἰὼν ’ καὶ τὸ ἀπὸ τῆς τοῦ κόσμου συστάσεως μέχρι τῆς συντελείας διάστημα . This he then supports by Matthew 28:20 ; Psalms 89:8 , LXX: Ephesians 1:21 ; Ephesians 2:7 ; and concludes, αἰὼν τοίνυν ἐστὶ τὸ τῇ κτιστῇ φύσει παρεζευγμένον διάστημα . τῶν αἰώνων δὲ ποιητὴν εἴρηκε τὸν υἱόν , ἀΐδιον αὐτὸν εἶναι διδάσκων , καὶ παιδεύων ἡμᾶς ὡς ἀεὶ ἦν παντὸς οὑτινοσοῦν ὑπερκείμενος χρονικοῦ διαστήματος ), Thl. ( ποῦ δέ εἰσιν οἱ λέγαντες , ἦν ὅτε οὐκ ἦν ; αὐτὸς τοὺς αἰῶνας ἐποίησε , καὶ πῶς ἦν αἰὼν ὅτε οὐκ ἦν αὐτός ;), Œc. &c., and Thom. Aquin., and Heinsius. On the other hand, (2) is the view of the majority of Commentators. It is explained and defended at length by Bleek, none of whose examples however seem to me to be void of the same ambiguity which characterizes the expression here. The Jews, it appears, came at length to designate by their phrase הָעוֹלָם הַוֶּה (see above on ἐπ ʼ ἐσχάτου κ . τ . λ .), not only the present age, but all things in and belonging to it and so of the “future age” likewise. He produces a remarkable instance of this from Wis 13:9 , εἰ γὰρ τοσοῦτον ἴσχυσαν εἰδέναι , ἵνα δύνωνται στοχάσασθαι τὸν αἰῶνα , τὸν τούτων (of the things in the world) δεσπότην πῶς τάχιον οὐχ εὗρον ; He therefore would regard τοὺς αἰῶνας as strictly parallel with πάντα above, and would interpret, “Whom He has constituted lord, possessor and ruler over all, over the whole world, even as by Him He has made all, the universe.” And nearly so Delitzsch, Ebrard, and Lünemann: these two latter adding however somewhat, inasmuch as they take it of all this state of things constituted in time and space. Ebrard says:  Die ewige Selbst-offenbarung Gottes in sich, durch das emige Aussprechen seiner Fulle im ewigen personlichen Wort, das Gott zu sich ( Joh 1:1 )  redet, und im Wehen des Ewigen Geistes, bildet den Grund und somit das Ewige (nicht zeitliche) Prius der vom Willen des Dreieinigen ausgehenden Offenbarung seiner in einer Sphare, die nicht ewig, sondern zeitlich raumlich, nicht Gott, sondern Creatur ist . And this last view I should be disposed to adopt, going however somewhat further still: for whereas Ebrard includes in τοὺς αἰῶνας God’s revelation of Himself in a sphere whose conditions are Time and Space, and so would understand by it all things existing under these conditions, I would include in it also  these conditions themselves , which exist not independently of the Creator, but are His work  His appointed conditions of all created existence. So that the universe, as well in its great primæval conditions, the reaches of Space, and the ages of Time, as in all material objects and all successive events, which furnish out and people Space and Time, God made by Christ. It will be plain that what has been here said will apply equally to ch. Hebrews 11:3 , which is commonly quoted as decisive for the  material sense here. Some (Schlichting, al.) have endeavoured to refer τοὺς αἰῶνας , 3. to the new or spiritual world, or the ages of the Messiah, or of the Christian Church: principally in the interests of Socinianism: or, 4. as Sykes and Pyle, to the various dispensations of God’s revelation of Himself: or even, 5. as Fabricius (Cod. Apocr. i. p. 710, Bl.), to the Gnostic æons, or emanations from the Divine Essence, and so to the higher spiritual order of beings, the angels. Against all these, besides other considerations, ch. Heb 11:3 is a decisive testimony). It will be seen by consulting the note on John 1:1 , how very near the teaching of Philo approached to this creation of the universe by the Son. See, among the quotations in my Vol. I. Edn. 6, p. 679, especially those from Philo, vol. i. p. 106: and that in p. 681 from ib. p. 162. See Isa 9:6 Heb. and LXX-A [1] [2] .
	 [1] A The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [2] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .