 7 .]  And (  with reference )  indeed to (  πρός as in reff.: but not exactly correspondent in the two cases πρὸς τ . ἀγγέλους and πρὸς τ . ἀγγέλους : the fact being, as Bl., that πρός with a person, after λέγειν and similar verbs, implies direction of the saying towards the person, usually by direct address, but sometimes by indirect reference. So Bengel here: “Ad angelos indirecto sermone, ad filium directo sermone:”  μέν , corresponding to δέ below)  the angels He (God)  saith, Who maketh his angels winds (see below)  and his ministers a flame of fire (the citation is after the LXX according to the Alexandrine MS., which indeed commonly agrees with the citations in this Epistle. And as the words stand in the Greek, the arrangement and rendering of them is unquestionably as above (see this argued below). But here comes in no small difficulty as to the sense of the original Hebrew. It stands thus: after stating, Hebrews 1:2-3 , that God takes light for His raiment, and the heavens for a tent, and the clouds for a chariot, we read, עֹשֶׂה מַלְאָכָיו רוּחוֹה מְשָֽׁרְתָיו אֵשׁ לֹהֵט , Hebrews 1:4 . And it is usually contended that these words can only mean, from the context, “who maketh the winds his messengers, and flames of fire his servants.” But, granting that this is so, the argument from the context can only be brought in as subsidiary to that from the construction of the passage. And it will be observed that in this verse the order of the Hebrew words is not the same as that in the former verses, where we have הַשָּׂם עָבִים רְכוּבוֹ , “who maketh clouds his chariots.” For this transposition those who insist as above have given no reason: and I cannot doubt that the LXX have taken the right view of the construction: that מַלְאָכָיו is the object, and רוּחוֹת the predicate, and so in the other clause: and that the sense is, “who maketh his messengers winds, his servants flames of fire,” whatever these words may be intended to import. And this latter enquiry will I imagine be not very difficult to answer. He makes his messengers winds, i. e. He causes his messengers to act in or by means of the winds; his servants flames of fire, i. e. commissions them to assume the agency or form of flames for His purposes. It seems to me that this, the plain sense of the Hebrew as it stands, is quite as agreeable to the context as the other. And thus the Rabbis took it, as we see by the citations in Schöttgen and Wetstein. So Schemoth Rabba, § 25, fol. 123. 3: “Deus dicitur Deus Zebaoth, quia cum angelis suis facit quæcumque vult. Quando vult, facit ipsos sedentes, Jude 1:6 ; Jude 1:11 . Aliquando facit ipsos stantes, Isaiah 6:2 . Aliquando facit similes mulieribus, Zechariah 5:9 . Aliquando viris, Genesis 18:2 . Aliquando facit ipsos spiritus, Psalms 104:4 . Aliquando ignem, ib.:” and many other Rabbinical testimonies. The construction maintained above is also defended by Hofmann, Schriftbeweis, i. p. 283, and proved to be the only admissible one by Delitzsch, whose commentary has been published since this note was written. The only accommodation of the original passage made by the Writer, is the very slight one of applying the general terms “His messengers” and “His servants” to the angels, which indeed can be their only meaning. And this I should be bold to maintain, even though it be against Calvin (“Locus quem citat, videtur in alienum sensum trahi … nihil certius est quam hic fieri mentionem ventorum quos dicit a Domino fieri nuntios … nihil hoc ad angelos pertinet”), Kuinoel (“Verum enimvero Psalmi l. l., de angelis, tanquam personis, sermo esse non potest”), De Wette (on the Psalm:  Sinn: er bedient sich der Winde u. Feuerflammen als seine Wertzeuge: von Engeln als himmlischen Wesen ist hier gar nicht die Rede ), Bleek, Ebrard, Lünemann, al. See the whole literature of the passage in the three last. Singularly enough, the ancient Commentators confine their attention to the part. ποιῶν , and seem simply to have taken the accusatives as epithets in apposition: e. g. Chrys.: ιδού , ἡ μεγίστη διαφορά · ὅτι οἱ μὲν κτιστοί , ὁ δὲ ἄκτιστος · κ . διὰ τί πρὸς μὲν τοὺς ἀγγέλους αὐτοῦ φησιν · ὁ ποιῶν , πρὸς δὲ τὸν υἱόν , διὰ τί οὐκ εἶπεν , ὁ ποιῶν ; Similarly Thl. and Thdrt. (on the Psalm also). The sense of the words I have endeavoured to give in some measure above. It is evident that πνεύματα must be rendered  winds , not “  spirits :” from both the context in the Psalm and the correspondence of the two clauses, and also from the nature of the subject. πάντες εἰσὶν πνεύματα , as asserted below, Hebrews 1:14 ; therefore it could not with any meaning be said, that He  maketh them spirits):  but to (that this  πρός is used of direct address, and not, as Delitzsch, al., of indirect reference, is manifest by ὁ θρόνος  σου following: see also above. The difficulty mentioned by Ebrard, that thus we shall have the Writer implying that Psalms 45:0 is a direct address to the Son of God, is not obviated by the indirect understanding of πρός , but is inherent in the citation itself, however the preposition is rendered)  the Son, Thy throne, O God (  ὁ θεός is probably vocative: both here and in the Hebrew: and is so taken even by modern Unitarians (see Yates, Vindication of Unitarianism, p. 183, and notes), who seek their refuge by explaining away θεός . To suppose the words a parenthetical exclamation to God, or the meaning “Thy God-like Throne,” or “Thy throne of God” (see De W. in Psal.), i. e. ‘the throne of Thy God,’ seems forcing them from their ordinary construction. The rendering of Grot., adopted by some modern Socinians, “Thy throne is God for ever and ever,” is not touched by any of the principal Commentators on the Psalm, and seems repugnant to the decorum (for Ps. 72:26, ἡ μερίς μου ὁ θεὸς εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα , is no case in point, the idea being wholly different) and spirit of the passage. I need hardly adduce instances of ὁ with a nom. as a form of the vocative: they will be found in the reff.) (  is )  for ever and ever (see Psalms 103:5 ; Psalms 110:3 , 8, 10; and fuller still Hebrews 9:5 , εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα κ . εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα τοῦ αἰῶνος );  and (see var. readd.
	Hofmann, Schriftbeweis i. 148, maintains that this  καί , splitting as it does the citation into two, is intended by the Writer to mark off the former portion as addressed to Jehovah, and the latter only to the King, as indicated by ὁ θεός σου . But, as Delitzsch well replies, he would thus be cutting asunder the thread of his own argument, which depends on the address to the Son as ὁ θεός , as exalting Him above the angels)  the rod (i. e. sceptre: see especially Esther 4:11 ; Judges 5:14 (see Bertheau in loc.): Amos 1:5 (this latter in Heb. and E. V., not in LXX), where the same Heb. word שֵׁבֶט occurs)  of thy kingdom is the rod of straightness (i. e. righteousness, justice: see reff. to LXX. Notice that the position of ἡ ῥάβδος τῆς εὐθύτητος in all probability, according to usage, points it out as the  predicate ; and the other, ἡ ῥ . τ . β . σου , is the subject).  Thou lovedst (the Writer refers the words to the whole life of our Lord on earth, as a past period)  righteousness, and hatedst lawlessness (in [7] [8] &c. (see var. readd.) and in LXX-A,  iniquity: which is therefore very probably the right reading, but is hardly strongly enough attested):  for this cause (as διό , Philippians 2:9 ; because of His love of righteousness and hatred of lawlessness, shewn by his blameless life and perfect obedience on earth. Some take  διὰ τοῦτο here, and עַל־כֵּן in the Psalm, as introducing not the consequence, but the  reason of what has preceded: so Aug [9] Enarr. in Psalms 44:0 . § 19, vol. iv. pt. i., “Propterea unxitte, ut diligeres justitiam, et odires iniquitatem:” Thos. Aq., Schöttgen, al. In Heb 1:2 of the same Ps. the same ambiguity occurs: and there Bl. pronounces the sense to be decidedly “  because ” and not “  therefore ,” which latter however the E. V. has, and De W. without remark: and so also Aug [10] But the sense in both places seems decidedly ‘  therefore ,’ and not ‘  because :’ the eternal blessing of Hebrews 1:2 , and the anointing with the oil of gladness here, being much more naturally results of the inherent beauty and merit of the high Person addressed, than means whereby these are conferred)  God, thy God (many Commentators of eminence, both ancient and modern, maintain that the first  ὁ θεός here is as before, vocative. Some of them use the strongest language on the point: e. g. Aug [11] on the Psalm, with regard to the  Greek : “O tu Deus, unxit te Deus tuus. Deus unguitur a Deo. Etenim in Latino putatur idem casus nominis repetitus: in Græco autem evidentissima distinctio est, quia unum nomen est quod compellatur et alterum ab eo qui compellat, unxit te Deus. O tu Deus, unxit te Deus tuus: quomodo si diceret, Propterea unxit te o tu Deus, Deus tuus. Sic accipite, sic intelligite, sic in Græco evidentissimum est.” And it is also assumed by Thl. ( ὅτι δὲ τὸ Ὁ θεός , ἀντὶ τοῦ Ὦ θεέ ἐστι , μάρτυς ἀξιόπιστος ὁ ἐχθρὸς Σύμμαχος , ἐκδοὺς οὕτω · Διὰ τοῦτο ἔχρισέ σε , θεέ , ὁ θεός σου ἔλαιον χαρᾶς παρὰ ἑταίρους σου ), Ps-Anselm (“Sicut et in Hebræo et Græco patet, primum nomen Dei vocativo casu intelligendum est, sequens nominativo”), Wolf, Bengel, Kuinoel, De Wette, Bleek, Lünemann, Stier, Ebrard, &c. The last goes so far as to say that the Heb. will not bear the construction of the two nominatives in apposition: “It is impossible that אֱלֹהֶיךָ can be in apposition with אֱלֹהִים : even in a vocative address, such a juxtaposition would be foreign to the spirit of Hebrew idiom: certainly here in a nominative sentence, or connexion of  subjects , such a redundance would be the more out of place, that an emphasis of this kind would be entirely aimless and uncalled for.” But against such a dictum I may set the simple fact that, in a  vocative sentence, the apposition does occur in Psalms 43:4 (42. LXX), both in the Heb. and in the Gr. אֱלֹהִים אֱלֹהָי , ὁ θεός , ὁ θεός μου , “O God, my God:” and in a nominative sentence again, with the very same words as here, in Psalms 50:7 ( Psa 49:7 ), אֱלֹהִים אֱלֹהֶיךָ אָנֹכִי , ὁ θεός , ὁ θεός σου εἰμὶ ἐγώ , “I am God, (even) thy God.” See also Psalms 57:7 ( Psa 56:7 ), ὁ θεός , ὁ θεὸς ἡμῶν , “God, (even) our God.” So that I confess I am unable to see the necessity of interpreting either the Hebrew or the Greek in the way proposed. I take both as giving two nominatives in apposition, ‘God, thy God.’ And so Origen appears to have taken it, Contra Cels. vi. § 79, vol. i. 692, καὶ διὰ τοῦτο ἔχρισε καὶ αὐτοὺς ὁ θεός , ὁ θεὸς τοῦ χριστοῦ , ἔλαιον ἀγαλλιάσεως (Chrys. and Thdrt. do not touch it), Grot., Estius (Calvin does not touch it), Owen, al. Delitzsch leaves it undecided, conceding that the vocative acceptation is inconsistent with the usage of the “Elohimpsalmen,” but balancing this by the consideration that the sense would be consistent with the usage of references to the Messiah, as Isaiah 9:5 ; Isa 11:2 )  anointed thee (  how? and  when? We must distinguish this anointing from the ἔχρισεν αὐτὸν ὁ θεὸς πνεύματι ἁγίῳ κ . δυνάμει of Acts 10:38 , and the ἔχρισέν με of Isaiah 61:1 . For it is a consequent upon the righteous course of the Son of God in his Humanity, and therefore belongs to his triumph, in which He is exalted above his μέτοχοι (see below). Again the ‘  oil of gladness ’ below seems rather to point to a festive and triumphant, than to an inaugurative unction. We should therefore rather take the allusion to be, as in Psalms 23:5 ; Psalms 92:10 , to the custom of anointing guests at feasts: so that, as the King in the Psalm is anointed with the oil of rejoicing above his fellows, because of his having loved righteousness and hated iniquity, so Christ, in the jubilant celebration of His finished course at his exaltation in heaven, is anointed with the festive oil παρὰ τοὺς μετόχους αὐτοῦ (see below). There is of course an allusion also in  ἔχρισεν to the honoured and triumphant Name χριστός )  with (  χρίω is found with a double accus. in the N. T. and LXX (reff.); usually elsewhere with a dative. But, as Bl. remarks, the construction is in accordance with Greek idiomatic usage. He compares Aristoph. Acharn. 114, ἵνα μή σε βάψω βάμμα Σαρδιανικόν : Pind. Isthm. vi. 18, πίσω σφε Δίρκας ἁγνὸν ὕδωρ )  oil of rejoicing (see above: oil indicative of joy, as it is of superabundance: cf. Isa 61:3 )  beyond thy fellows (i. e. in the Psalm, “other kings,” as De W., Ebrard, al.: hardly “brothers by kin” (other sons of David), as Grot., al. But to whom does  the Writer apply the words? Chrys. says, τίνες δέ εἰσιν οἱ μέτοχοι , ἀλλ ʼ ἢ οἱ ἄνθρωποι ; τουτέστι , τὸ πνεῦμα οὐκ ἐκ μέτρου ἔλαβεν ὁ χριστός : Thdrt., μέτοχοι δὲ ἡμεῖς καὶ κοινωνοὶ οὐ τῆς θεότητος , ἀλλὰ τῆς ἀνθρωπότητος : and so Bengel, citing ὡραῖος κάλλει παρὰ τοὺς υἱοὺς τῶν ἀνθρώπων , Hebrews 1:2 (3) of this Psalm. Thdrt. on the Psalm (Bl.), Calvin (“Nos sibi adoptavit consortes”), Beza, al., think of believers, the adopted into God’s family: Wittich, Braun, Cramer (in Bl.), of the high-priests, prophets, and kings, in the O. T., anointed as types of Christ: Klee, of  all creatures : Kuinoel and Ebrard, as in the Psalm, of  other kings . Camero says, “ μετόχους in officio nullos, in natura humana omnes homines, in gratia omnes fideles habet Christus.” Still we may answer to all these, that they do not in any way satisfy the requirements of the context. Were it the intent of the Writer to shew Christ’s superiority over his human brethren of  every kind , we might accept one or other of these meanings: but as this is not his design, but to shew His superiority to the angels, we must I think take  μετόχους as representing other heavenly beings, partakers in the same glorious and sinless state with Himself, though not in the strict sense, His ‘fellows.’ De Wette objects to this sense, that the Writer places the angels far beneath Christ: Delitzsch, that the angels are not  anointed , whereas there is no necessity in the text for understanding that the μέτοχοι are also anointed: the  παρά may consist in the very fact of the anointing itself: and Ebrard, speaking as usual strongly, says that “neither the Psalmist, nor our author if in his senses, could have applied the word to the angels.” But this need not frighten us: and we may well answer with Lünemann, “1. that the general comparison here being that of Christ with the angels, the fresh introduction of this point of comparison in Heb 1:9 cannot of itself appear inappropriate. 2. Granted, that just before, in Hebrews 1:7 , the angels are placed far beneath Christ, we have this very inferiority here marked distinctly by  παρά . 3. The angels are  next to Christ in rank, by the whole course of this argument: to whom then would the Writer more naturally apply the term μέτοχοι , than to them?” I may add, 4. that the comparison here is but analogous to that in Hebrews 1:4 , of which indeed it is an expansion: and, 5. that thus only can the figure of anointing at a triumphant festival be carried out consistently: that triumph having taken place on the exaltation of the Redeemer to the Father’s right hand and throne ( Heb 1:8 ), when, the whole of the heavenly company, His μέτοχοι in glory and joy, being anointed with the oil of gladness, His share and dignity was so much greater than theirs. This meaning is held by Peirce, Olshausen, Bleek, Lünemann. Some, as Grot., Limborch, Böhme, Owen, join the interpretations “angels and men.” Certainly, if the former, then the latter; but these are not present in the figure here used). It remains that we should consider the general import, and application here, of Psalms 45:0 . From what is elsewhere found in this commentary, it will not be for a moment supposed that I can give in to the view of such writers as De Wette and Hupfeld, who maintain that it was simply an ode to some king, uncertain whom, and has no further reference whatever. Granting that in its first meaning it was addressed to Solomon (for to him the circumstances introduced seem best to apply, e. g. the palace of ivory, Heb 1:9 , cf. 1 Kings 10:18 ; the gold from Ophir, Hebrews 1:10 , cf. 1 Kings 9:28 ; the daughter of Tyre with her gift, Hebrews 1:13 , cf. 2Ch 2:3-16 ), or even, with Delitzsch, to Joram, on his marriage with the Tyrian Athaliah, we must yet apply to it that manifest principle, without which every Hebrew ode is both unintelligible and preposterous, that the theocratic idea filled the mind of the Writer and prompted his pen: and that the Spirit of God used him as the means of testifying to that King, who stood veritably at the head of the theocracy in the divine counsels. Thus considered, such applications as this lose all their difficulty; and we cease to feel ourselves obliged in every case to enquire to whom and on what occasion the Psalm was probably first addressed. And even descending to the low and mere rationalistic ground taken by De Wette and Hupfeld, we are at least safer than they are, holding as we do a meaning in which both Jews and Christians have so long concurred, as against the infinite diversity of occasion and reference which divides their opinions of the Psalm.
	 [7] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [8] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .
	 [9]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [10]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [11]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430