 14 .]  Are they not all (all the angels)  ministering (in reference probably to λειτουργούς in Hebrews 1:7 . The word  λειτουργικός , not found in the classics, is used in the LXX (reff.) of any thing pertaining to the λειτουργοί or their service; the instruments, vessels, garments, or offerings for the ministry: here, of those devoted to or belonging to the ministry of God)  spirits (unembodied beings, even as God Himself, but distinguished by the epithet λειτουργικά . The idea of “angels of service” or “of the ministry,” is familiar to the Rabbis: see quotations in Wetstein)  sent forth (mark the present participle, so also in ref. Rev.: he does not mean that angels have before now, in insulated cases, been sent forth, but that they are ever thus being sent forth, it is their normal work and regular duty through all the ages of time)  for ministry (in order to the ministration which is their work. The E. V. “sent forth to minister for them,” gives a wrong idea of the meaning. The  διακονία is not a  waiting upon men , but a fulfilment of their office as διάκονοι of  God . See Romans 13:4 . Schlichting observes, “Noluit dicere, ut ministrent iis qui &c. Non enim proprie ministratur et servitur illis, qui imperandi aut jubendi jus nullum habent, licet ministerium alteri præstitum in alterius commodum sæpe suscipiatur atque vertatur. Angeli proprie ministrant Deo et Christo, sed tamen in piorum usum et commodum. Idcirco maluit dicere, propter eos” &c. It may fairly be questioned whether the same idea, that of ‘ministering to God in behalf of,’ is not to be traced in such expressions as εἰς διακονίαν τοῖς ἁγίοις ἔταξαν ἑαυτούς , 1 Corinthians 16:15 ; εἰς διακονίαν πέμψαι τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς , Acts 11:29 . Compare with this expression Colossians 1:7 , πιστὸς ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν διάκονος τοῦ χριστοῦ )  on behalf of those who are about to inherit salvation (  σωτηρία , in the highest sense eternal salvation: not, as Kuin., al. “deliverance from dangers:” in so solemn a reference, that meaning would be quite beside the purpose. Those spoken of are the elect of God, they who love Him, and for whom all things work together for good, even the principalities and powers in heavenly places. And if it be said, that the ministration of angels has often been used for other immediate purposes than the behoof of the elect, we may answer, that all those things may well come under the διακονία  διὰ τοὺς μέλλ . κληρον . σωτηρίαν : for all things are theirs; and for them, in and as united to Christ, all events are ordered)? Thus the Son of God is proved superior to the angels i. e. to the highest of created beings: who, so far from being equal with Him, worship Him, and serve His purposes.