 13 .]  But (the contrast is again taken up from Hebrews 1:8 .  δέ is often found after the second word of a sentence and even later, when a preposition begins it: so κατὰ πόλεις δέ , Herod. viii. 68. 2: ἐν τοῖς πρῶτοι δέ Ἀθηναῖοι , Thuc. i. 6:.… οὐχ ὑπὸ ἐραστοῦ δὲ κ . τ . λ ., Plato, Phædr. 227 D: ξὺν τύχῃ δὲ πρόσφερε , Soph. Philoct. 764: πρὸς κακῶν δ ʼ ἀνδρῶν μαθών , ib. 959: ἐν νυκτὶ δυσκύμαντα δ ʼ ὠρώρει κακά , Æsch Agam. 653. See also other cases without the prepositional construction, in Klotz ad Devar. p. 379: Hartung, Partikellehre, i. p. 190: the account to be given being, that the particle may be thus postponed, whenever for any reason the previous words can be considered as one)  to whom of the angels hath He (God, as before)  ever said, Sit thou on my right hand (see above on Hebrews 1:3 . The phrase ἐκ δεξιῶν is not found in classical writers: but we have in Diod. Sic. iv. 56, τὴν γῆν ἔχοντας ἐξ εὐωνύμων . It is very common of standing or sitting or being on the right hand of another, in Hellenistic Greek: see reff.)  until I place thine enemies (as)  a footstool ( ὑποπόδιον , a word of later Greek, found in Athenæus, v. p. 192 E, ὁ γὰρ θρόνος .… ἐλευθέριός ἐστι καθέδρα σὺν ὑποποδίῳ : and xii. p. 514 f., Sextus Empir., al. The allusion is to the custom of putting the feet on the necks of conquered enemies, see Joshua 10:24 f.)  of thy feet? Hardly any Psalm is so often quoted in the N. T. with reference to Christ, as Psalms 110:0 . And no Psalm more clearly finds its ultimate reference and completion only in Christ, as even those confess, e. g. Bleek and De Wette, who question its being immediately addressed to Him at first: and regard the argument of our Lord to the Pharisees, founded on this place, as merely one ‘ex concesso.’ On the theocratic principle of interpretation, there is not the slightest difficulty in the application of the words directly to Him who is (and was ever regarded, even in David’s time, as Ebrard well shews against Bleek) Israel’s King, the Head and Chief of the theocracy.
	And see this further carried out in the note on ch. Hebrews 5:6 . Delitzsch, in loc., has devoted several pages to the discussion of the subject and arrangement of the Psalm.