 16 .]  A general injunction arising out of a circumstance necessarily to be inferred in the preceding example. There, the sin would of necessity have been confessed to the πρεσβύτεροι , before the prayer of faith could deal with it. And seeing the blessed consequences in that case, ‘generally,’ says the Apostle, in all similar cases, ‘and one to another universally, pursue the same salutary practice of confessing your sins.’  Confess therefore to one another (emphatically placed before τὰ παραπτώματα ‘not only to the presbyters in the case supposed, but to one another generally’)  your transgressions (i. e. not merely, as Wolf, al., offences against your brethren; but also sins against God: cf. ref. Matthew 6:0 ),  and pray for one another, that ye may be healed (in case of sickness, as above. The context here forbids any wider meaning: and so rightly De Wette, Wiesinger, and Huther. So even Corn. a-Lap., “id est, ut sanemini, scilicet, ab infirmitate quæ vos detinet.” On the other hand Justiniani, “recte Latinus interpres animæ sanitatem intellexit, hoc est, salutem sempiternam.” And similarly Estius, Carpzov, Grot., al. Baumgarten, Schneckenburger, Kern, al., would join both). It might appear astonishing, were it not notorious, that on this passage among others is built the Romish doctrine of the necessity of confessing sins to a priest. As a specimen of  the way in which it is deduced, I subjoin Corn. a-Lapide’s exegesis: “ ‘  Alterutrum ,’ id est, homo homini, similis simili, frater fratri confitemini, puta sacerdoti, qui licet officio sit superior, natura tamen est par, infirmitate similis, obligatione confitendi æqualis.” Cajetan, on the contrary, denies that “sacramental confession” is here spoken of: “nec hic est sermo de confessione sacramentali” [here, as in so many other cases, the much-vaunted unity of Roman interpreters embracing the most opposite opinions].  The supplication of a righteous man (i. e. of one who shews his faith by his works, see ch. Jam 2:24 )  availeth much in its working (i. e. worketh very effectually. Much doubt has arisen about the meaning and reference of  ἐνεργουμένη . It is usually taken as in E. V., “the effectual fervent prayer,” as an epithet to δέησις , setting forth its fervency. Œc. seems to take it passively, “helped forward by the sympathy of the person prayed for:” for he says, ἐνεργεῖται ἡ τοῦ δικαίου εὐχή , ὅταν καὶ ὁ ὑπὲρ οὗ εὔχεται συμπράττῃ διὰ κακώσεως πνευματικῆς τῷ εὐχομένῳ . ἂν γάρ , ἑτέρων ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν εὐχομένων , σπαταλαῖς ἡμεῖς σχολάζωμεν κ . ἀνέσεσι κ . ἐκδεδιῃτημένῳ βίῳ , ἐκλύομεν διὰ τούτου τὸ σύντονον τῆς εὐχῆς τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν ἀγωνιζομένου .
	The following is from Huther’s note: “Michaelis explains it ‘preces agitante Spiritu sancto effusæ:’ Carpzov, δέησις διὰ πίστεως ἐνεργουμένη : Gebser understands prayer in which the suppliant himself works for the accomplishment of his wish: similarly Calvin, ‘Tunc vere in actu est oratio, quum succurrere contendimus iis, qui laborant.’ Commonly,  ἐνεργουμένη is assumed to be synonymous with ἐνεργής or ἐνεργός ( ἐκτενής , Luke 22:44 ; Act 12:5 ), ‘strenuus,’ ‘intentus,’ ‘earnest,’ &c.: and this qualification of the prayer of the righteous man is attached to  πολὺ ἰσχύει as its condition (so Wiesinger, and similarly Erasm., Beza, Gataker, Horneius, Grot., Wolf, Baumg., Hottinger, Schneckenb., Kern, Theile, al.). This interpretation however has not only, as Wiesinger confesses, N. T. usage against it, but can hardly be justified from the context, it being necessarily implied that the prayer of the righteous man is not a dead and formal one. Besides which, the force of the general sentence, πολὺ ἰσχύει δέησις δικαίου , suffers much from the appending of a condition under which alone the sentence could be true. Rightly therefore does Pott adhere to the  verbal meaning of the participle  ἐνεργουμένη , in periphrasing, πολὺ ἱοχύει ἐνεργεῖν , or πολὺ ἰσχύει καὶ ἐνεργεῖ δέησις : but both these periphrases are arbitrary: the first weakens the force of ἰσχύει , and the second makes the two ideas co-ordinate, which the Apostle never intended. At all events we must connect ἐνεργουμένη closely with ἰσχύει : not as above, but so that by it may be expressed that which is the field or element of the πολὺ ἰσχύειν : the prayer of the righteous can do much  in its working (not, as De Wette, if it developes itself in act). That it  does work , this is assumed: that, besides working, it πολὺ ἰσχύει , this is it which St. James puts forward, and confirms by the following example of Elias”).