 12 .] This dehortation from swearing is connected with what went before by the obvious peril that they, whose temptations were to impatience under suffering, might be betrayed by that impatience into hasty swearing and imprecations. That this suffering state of theirs is still in view, is evident from the  κακοπαθεῖ τις which follows: that  it alone is not in view is equally evident, from the  εὐθυμεῖ τίς which also follows. So that we may safely say that the Apostle passes from their particular temptations under suffering to their general temptations in life.  But (contrast of the spirit which would prompt that which he is about to forbid, with that recommended in the last verses)  above all things (ref.: qu. d. ‘So far is the practice alien from Christian meekness, that whatever you feel or say, let it not for a moment be given way to’),  my brethren, swear not, neither by the heaven, nor by the earth, nor by any other oath (  ὅρκος for ‘  formula jurandi ,’ The construction of  ὄμνυμι with an accus. of the thing sworn by is classical: that with εἰς or ἐν , as in ref. Matt:, according to Hebraistic usage. Huther’s note here is valuable and just: “It is to be noticed, that swearing  by the name of God is not mentioned; for we must not imagine that this is included in the last member of the clause, the Apostle intending evidently by μήτε ἄλλον τινὰ ὅρκον to point only at similar formulæ, of which several are mentioned in ref. Matt. Had he intended to forbid swearing by the name of God, he would most certainly have mentioned it expressly: for not only is it in the law, in contradistinction to other oaths, commanded, see Deuteronomy 6:13 ; Deuteronomy 10:20 ; Psalms 63:11 , but in the Prophets is announced as a token of the future turning of men to God: ref. Isa.: Jeremiah 12:16 ; Jeremiah 23:7-8 . The omission of notice of  this oath shews that James in this warning has in view only the abuse, common among the Jews generally and among his readers, of introducing in the common every-day affairs of life, instead of the common yea and nay, such asseverations as those here mentioned: so that we are not justified in deducing from his words any prohibition of swearing in general, as has been attempted by many expositors of our Epistle, and especially by Œc., Bed [16] , Erasm., Theile, De Wette, Neander, al. (on the other hand the following Commentators refer St. James’s prohibition to light and trifling oaths: Calv., Est., Laurentius, Grot., Pott, Michaelis, Storr, Morus, Schneckenburger, Kern, Wiesinger, al.). The use of oaths  by heaven , &c., arises on the one hand from forgetting that every oath, in its deeper significance, is a swearing  by God , and on the other from a depreciation of simple truth in words: either way therefore from a lightness and frivolity which is in direct contrast to the earnest seriousness of a Christian spirit.” See my note on Matt. l. c.):  but (contrast to the habit of swearing)  let (on the form  ἤτω , see Winer, Gramm. § 14. 2. It is found  only , in all Greek classical literature, in Plato, Rep. ii. p. 361 C)  your yea be yea, and (  your )  nay, nay (it is hardly possible here to render ‘But let yours be (your habit of conversation be) yea yea and nay nay,’ on account of the  position of the emphatic  ὑμῶν : which in that case must have stood before the verb, ὑμῶν δὲ ἤτω , and even then might have been rendered the other way. As it is, the  ὑμῶν τὸ ναί lies too close together to be disjoined as subject, leaving the other ναί for predicate. So that, in form at least, our precept here differs slightly from that in St. Matt. The fact represented by both would be the same: confidence in men’s simple assertions and consequently absence of all need for asseveration):  that ye fall not under judgment (i. e. condemnation: not as the meaning of κρίσις , but as the necessary contextual result. The words in fact nearly = ἵνα μὴ κριθῆτε above. Notice, that there is here no exhortation to truthful speaking, as so many Commentators have assumed, e. g. Thl., Œc., Zwingle, Calv., Grot., Bengel, Schneckenb., Stier, al.: that is not in question at all).
	 [16] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.