 14 .]  Is any sick among you (here one case of κακοπάθεια is specified, and for it specific directions are given)?  let him summon to him (send for)  the elders of the congregation (to which he belongs: but not,  some one among those elders , as Estius, Corn. a-Lap., and other Rom.-Cath. interpreters: cf. the Council of Trent, Sess. xiv. De Extr. Unct. Song of Song of Solomon 4:0 (“Si quis dixerit, presbyteros Ecclesiæ, quos beatus Jacobus adducendos esse ad infirmum inungendum hortatur, non esse sacerdotes ab Episcopo ordinatos, sed ætate seniores in quavis communitate, ob idque proprium Extremæ Unctionis ministrum non esse solum sacerdotem: anathema sit”), and Justiniani’s vindication of the application of this passage to their sacrament of extreme unction: on which see below. The  πρεσβύτεροι are not simply “ætate seniores in quavis communitate,” but those who were officially πρεσβύτεροι , or ἐπίσκοποι , which in the apostolic times were identical: see notes on Acts 20:17 ; Acts 20:28 ; so that “sacerdotes ab Episcopo ordinatos” above, would, as applied to the text, be an anachronism),  and let them pray over him (  ἐπ  ʼ   αὐτόν , either, 1. literally, as coming and standing over his bed: or, 2. figuratively, with reference to him, as if their intent, in praying, went out towards him. Either way, the signification of  motion in ἐπί with an accus. must be taken into account, and we must not render ‘  for him .’ On the Presbyters praying, Bengel says, “qui dum orant, non multo minus est quam si tota oraret Ecclesia”),  anointing (or,  when they have anointed )  him with oil in the name of the Lord (the  ἐν τῷ ὀν  .   κυρ . belongs to ἀλείψαντες , not, as Gebser, to προσευξ ., nor as Schneckenburger, to both. And thus joined, they shew that the anointing was not a mere human medium of cure, but had a sacramental character: cf. the same words, or ἐπὶ τῷ ὀν ., εἰς τὸ ὄν ., used of  baptism , Matthew 28:19 ; Acts 2:38 ; Acts 10:48 ; Acts 19:5 ; 1 Corinthians 1:13 ; 1 Corinthians 1:15 .  κυρίου here is probably Christ, from analogy: His name being universally used as the vehicle of all miraculous power exercised by his followers).