 3 .]  your gold and your silver is rusted through (“Loquitur populariter, nam aurum proprie æruginem non contrahit.” Horneius, in Huther. In ref. Ep. Jer., we have of golden and silver images of idols, οὐ διασώζονται ἀπὸ ἰοῦ . Rust, happening generally to metals, is predicated of gold and silver without care for exact precision. So that there is no need to seek for some interpretation which may make the κατίωται true of gold, as that (Bretschn.) copper vessels plated with gold are intended. The stern and vivid depiction of prophetic denunciation does not take such trifles into account. In  κατ - ίωται , the prep. gives the sense of entireness; ‘thoroughly rusted’),  and the rust of them shall be for a testimony to you (not, as Œc., καταμαρτυρήσει ὑμῶν , ἐλέγχων τὸ ἀμετάδοτον ὑμῶν , the rust which you have allowed to accumulate on them by want of use, shall testify against you in judgment, but, as Wiesinger and Huther rightly, seeing that the rust is the effect of judgment begun, not of want of use, the rust of them is a token what shall happen to yourselves: in the consuming of your wealth, you see depicted your own),  and shall eat (  φάγεται is a well-known future, contracted from φαγήσεται : cf. John 2:17 , and the prophecy ref. 4 (2) Kings, καταφάγονται οἱ κύνες τὰς σάρκας Ἰεζαβέλ )  your flesh (plur. in reff. Huther remarks that in almost all the places cited, the same verb is used with the noun)  as fire (i. e. as fire devours the flesh; which will account for the use of  τὰς σάρκας , without giving it any emphatic meaning (“your bloated bodies,” “your flesh of which alone you consist,” and the like: see De Wette), seeing that fire consumes the flesh first). The Syr., Œc., Grot., Knapp, Wiesinger, al. place the period at  ὑμῶν , and connect ὡς πῦρ with ἐθησαυσίσατε , explaining it, ἐν ἐσχάταις ἡμέραις εὑρήσετε τὸν πλοῦτον ὑμῶν ὡς πῦρ ταμιευθέντα ὑμῖν εἰς ὄλεθρον (Œc.), “quasi ignem in vestro malo asservastis” Grot.). But the reasons given for this are not satisfactory. There is in reality no confusion of metaphor in φάγεται τ . σάρ . ὑμ . ὡς πῦρ , and no want of an expressed object in ἐθησαυρίσατε ἐν ἐσχ . ἡμ ., the verb  θησαυρίζειν containing its object in itself.  Ye laid up treasure in the last days (i. e. in these, the last days before the coming of the Lord, ye, instead of repenting and saving your souls, laid up treasure to no profit; employed yourselves in the vain accumulation of this world’s wealth. The aor., as so often when the course of life and action is spoken of, is used as if from the standing-point of the day of judgment, looking back over this life.
	 ἐν is not for  εἰς , here or any where: nor is the meaning ‘  for ’ or ‘  against ’ the last days. Estins, Calvin, al., with this idea, follow the vulg. in supplying “iram” after “thesauravistis,” as in Romans 2:5 . Wolf and Morus understand by  the last days , the last days of life: “Accumulavistis divitias extremæ vitæ parti provisuri:” but this is clearly wrong in N. T. diction: cf. reff.).