 6 .]  Third class of sins: condemning the innocent .  Ye condemned, ye murdered the just man (these words are probably spoken generally, the singular being collective. τὸν  δίκαιον , not merely τὸν ἀθῷον ; it is his justice itself which provokes the enmity and cruelty of the πλούσιοι . It has been usual to refer these words to the condemnation and execution of Christ. So Œc., ἀναντιῤῥήτως τό , ἐφονεύσατε τὸν δίκαιον , ἐπὶ τὸν χριστὸν ἀναφέρεται . τῇ μέντοι ἐπιφορᾷ , τῇ , οὐκ ἀντιτάσσεται ὑμῖν , ἐκοίνωσε τὸν λόγον καὶ πρὸς τοὺς ἄλλους τοὺς τὰ ὅμοια παρὰ τῶν Ἰουδαίων παθόντας . ἴσως δὲ καὶ προφητικῶς τὸ περὶ ἑαυτὸν ὑπεμφαίνει πάθος . So Bed [15] , at some length; Grot., al. But there is surely nothing in the context to indicate this, further than that such a particular case may be included in the general charge, as its most notorious example. I cannot see, with Huther, how the  present  ἀντιτάσσεται makes against this: for anyhow we must suppose a change of sense before the  present can be introduced: and then it may as well be a description of Christ’s patient endurance, or of His present long-suffering, as of the present meekness of the (generic) δίκαιος . But I prefer the latter, and with it the other reference throughout):  he (the δίκαιος ; Bentley more ingeniously than happily conjectured ὁ κύριος , as an emendation for οὐκ )  doth not resist you (the behaviour of the just under your persecutions is ever that of meekness and submission. “  οὐκ ἀντιτάσσεται sine copula et pronomine ponderose additur.” Schneckenb.).
	 [15] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	This last clause serves as a note of transition to what follows. So Herder remarks, as cited by Wiesinger: “And thus we have as it were standing before us the slain and unresisting righteous man, when lo the curtain falls: Be patient, brethren, wait!” See, on the whole sense, Amos 2:6-7 ; Amos 5:12 ; and the description in Wis 2:6-20 .