 4 6 .]  Specification of the sins, the incipient judgments for which hitherto have been hinted at under the figures of rust and moth.
	 And 4 .]  the unjust frauds of the rich , in non-payment of just debts.  Behold (belongs to the fervid graphic style),  the hire of the workmen (the sentence would be complete without the words  τῶν ἐργατῶν but probably there is tacit reference to the well-known saying (see on 1Ti 5:18 ) used by our Lord, ref. Luke ( Mat 10:10 ), ἄξιος ὁ ἐργάτης τοῦ μισθοῦ αὐτοῦ )  who mowed (  ἀμάω , from ἅμα , properly to gather together; but commonly used as here of reaping or mowing corn for harvest. So I1. σ . 551, ἔνθα δ ʼ ἔριθοι ἤμων , ὀξείας δρεπάνας ἐν χερσὶν ἔχοντες . See Soph. Antig. 598, and Hermann’s note)  your fields (reff.),  which has been held back (for the sense cf. Leviticus 19:13 ; Jeremiah 22:13 , and esp. ref. Mal. In Sirach 31 (34):22, we have ἐκχεῶν αἷμα ὁ ἀποστερῶν μισθὸν μισθίου ),  crieth out (“Vindictam quasi alto clamore exposcit,” Caly. Cf. Gen 4:10 )  from you (this, which was suggested by Huther, is better than to take refuge in the idea that  ἀπό = ὑπό , and to render, “which has been held back by you:” or than Wiesinger’s interpretation, which, recognizing the difference between the two prepositions, makes  ἀπό designate, not the direct origin of the act, but the proceeding of the act of robbery from them: and so Winer, § 47, ἀπό , note [2, p. 464, Moulton’s Edn.]: but none of the examples which he gives at all come near this one. The most plausible, Luke 9:22 ; Luke 17:25 , ἀποδοκιμασθῆναι ἀπὸ τῶν πρεσβυτέρων κ . τ . λ ., differs in this, that a  Person is spoken of, whose ἀποδοκιμασία will come from the πρεσβύτεροι : whereas here, where a  thing is in question, with which the ἀποστεροῦντες deal, we can hardly say that  its ἀποστέρησις proceeds from them. The other construction is amply justified by reff. The μισθός , which was kept back, and rests with you, cries out  from you , your coffers, where it lies):  and the cries of them who reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts (not only does the abstracted hire cry out from its place, but the defrauded victims themselves join, and the cry is heard of God. For the expressions see reff. This is the only place in the N. T. where  κύριος Σαβαώθ is used by any writer: Rom 9:29 is a citation. The Jewish character of the whole will sufficiently account for it. Bed [14] gives another reason, which also doubtless was in the Apostle’s mind: “Dominum exercituum appellat, ad terrorem eorum, qui pauperes putant nullum habere tutorem”).
	 [14] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.