 5 .]  Second class of sins: luxury and self-indulgence .  Ye luxuriated on the earth (the last words of Jam 5:4 placed the thought in heaven, where the judgment is laid up)  and wantoned (  ἐτρυφ  .,   ἐσπαταλ ., “luxuriare, lascivire: alterum deliciarum, alterum prodigentiæ,” Theile. See on ref. 1 Tim.),  ye nourished (satiated, fattened)  your hearts (  καρδίας as in reff., and in Acts 14:17 , ἐμπιπλῶν τροφῆς … τὰς καρδίας ἡμῶν . Although the body is really that which is filled, the heart is that in which the satisfaction of repletion is felt)  in the (the omission of the art. as so common before ἡμέρα , ὥρα , καιρός : cf. Matthew 8:29 ; Winer, § 19. 1)  day of slaughter (i. e. as Theile, “Similes sunt pecudibus quæ ipso adeo mactationis die se pascunt saginantque lætæ et securæ.” Cf. ref. Jer.  ἐν is again not for εἰς . This seems the simplest and most obvious interpretation. It need not be dependent on the insertion of the ὡς ; the sudden and direct application of the image to the persons addressed requires no particle of comparison. And it is no reason against it, which Huther somewhat petulantly alleges against De Wette, that beasts do not eat more greedily on the day of their slaughter than on any other day; for this is not implied. Even if we grant Huther’s own view, that  ἡμέρα σφαγῆς is an expression for the day of judgment, this expression derives its force from the above comparison, and will not let us forget it. Many Commentators, as Calvin, Beza, Grot., Laurentius, Bengel, al., understand ἡμ . σφαγῆς to mean a day of banqueting, when oxen and fatlings are slain. Calvin says, “Solebant in sacrificiis solemnibus liberalius vesci quam pro quotidiano more. Dicit ergo divites tota vita continuare festum.” This might be allowable, were it not that the analogy of ἐν ἐσχάταις ἡμέραις above seems to demand the other. It is no objection to it (Huther), that thus all allusion to the judgment is lost; this comes in with the other interpretation, and appositely: but is not absolutely required by the sentiment of the verse, which regards the self-indulgence, &c., of the rich while on earth).