 15 .]  And the prayer of faith (gen. subj.: the prayer which faith offers)  shall save (clearly here, considering that the forgiveness of sins is separately stated afterwards,  σώσει can  only be used of  corporeal healing , not of the salvation of the soul. This has not always been recognized. The R.-Cath. interpreters, who pervert the whole passage to the defence of the practice of extreme unction, take σώσει of the salvation of the soul. Thus Corn. a-Lapide: “  Oratio fidei , id est, sacramentum et forma sacramentalis extremæ unctionis,  salvabit infirmum , hoc est, conferet ei gratiam qua salvetur anima.” Some Commentators, as Lyra and Schneckenb., take both meanings. The Council of Trent prevaricates: “Ægroti animam alleviat et confirmat (unctio extrema), magnam in eo divinæ misericordiæ fiduciam excitando: qua infirmus sublevatus, et morbi incommoda ac labores levius fert, et tentationibus dæmonis calcaneo insidiantis facilius resistit: et sanitatem corporis interdum, ubi saluti animæ expedierit, consequitur”)  the sick man (  κάμνω ,  ægroto , is classical, even in its absolute use: cf. Soph. Phil. 262: Xen. Cyr. i. 6. 16),  and the Lord (most probably Christ, again: He who is Lord in the Christian Church)  shall raise him up (from his bed of sickness: see reff. Here again our R.-Cath. friends are in sad perplexity. The vulg. led the way with its “  alleviabit .” The interpretations may be seen in Corn. a-Lap., Justiniani, Estius, al. Cf. the Council of Trent above. A curious contrast is furnished by the short comm. of Œc.: τοῦτο καὶ τοῦ κυρίου ἔτι τοῖς ἀνθρώποις συναναστρεφομένου οἱ ἀπόστολοι ἐποίουν , ἀλείφοντες τοὺς ἀσθενοῦντας ἐλαίῳ καὶ ἰώμενοι ):  even if (  κἄν precedes a climax: see the sense below. So that the  καί is not copulative, but the sentence is abruptly introduced)  he have committed (he be  in a state of having committed , i. e. abiding under the consequence of, some commission of sin; for so the  perf. implies; and hereby the sin in question is presumed to have been the working cause of his present sickness. So Bed [17] : “Multi propter peccata in anima facta, infirmitate vel etiam morte plectuntur corporis:” citing 1 Corinthians 11:30 . On this necessary force of the perfect, see Winer, § 40. 4: and on the sense, cf. Matthew 9:2 ; Matthew 9:5 f.: Joh 5:14 )  sins, it shall be forgiven him (supply as a subject, τὸ πεποιηκέναι , from the foregoing).
	 [17] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	Among all the daring perversions of Scripture by which the Church of Rome has defended her superstitions, there is none more patent than that of the present passage. Not without reason has the Council of Trent defended its misinterpretation with the anathema above cited: for indeed it needed that, and every other recommendation, to support it, and give it any kind of acceptance. The Apostle is treating of a matter totally distinct from the occasion, and the object, of extreme unction. He is enforcing the efficacy of the prayer of faith in afflictions, James 5:13 . Of such efficacy, he adduces one special instance. In sickness, let the sick man inform the elders of the Church. Let them, representing the congregation of the faithful, pray over the sick man, accompanying that prayer with the symbolic and sacramental act of anointing with oil in the name of the Lord. Then, the prayer of faith (see Corn. a-Lap. above for the audacious interpretation) shall save (heal) the sick man, and the Lord shall bring him up out of his sickness; and even if it were occasioned by some sin, that sin shall be forgiven him. Such is the simple and undeniable sense of the Apostle, arguing for the efficacy of prayer: and such, as above seen, the perversion of that sense by the Church of Rome. Here, as in the rest of these cases, it is our comfort to know that there is a God of truth, whose judgment shall begin at His Church. Observe, the promises here made of recovery and forgiveness are unconditional, as in Mar 16:18 al.