 17 .]  Elias was a man of like passions with us (this precedes, to obviate the objection that the greatness of Elias, so far out of our reach, neutralizes the example for us weak and ordinary men. There is no contrast to δίκαιος intended, as Gebser, but rather Elias is an example of a δίκαιος : nor again can  ὁμοιοπαθής be taken to signify “involved in like sufferings,” as Laurentius and Schneckenb.: see reff.),  and he prayed with prayer (made it a special matter of prayer: not, “  prayed earnestly ,” as E. V., Schneckenb., Wiesinger, al. This adoption of the Heb. idiom merely brings out more forcibly the idea of the verb)  that it might not rain (the gen. of the intent: the purport and purpose of the prayer being mingled, as so commonly: cf. on the similar προσεύχεσθαι ἵνα , note, 1 Corinthians 14:13 . This fact is not even hinted at in the O. T. history in 1 Kings 17 ff.; nor the following one, that he prayed for rain at the end of the drought: though this latter may perhaps be implied in 1 Kings 18:42 ff.),  and it rained not (the use of  βρέχειν for to rain is found first in prose, according to Lobeck, Phryn. p. 291, in Polyb. xvi. 12. 3: then in Arrian, Epict. i. 6. 30, and in LXX, N. T. and subsequent writers. Classically, it is poetical only. The impersonal use appears to be confined to later writers)  on the earth for three years and six months (so also Luke 4:25 ; and in the Jalkut Simeoni, on 1 Kings 16:0 , where we have, “Anno xiii. Achabi fames regnabat in Samaria per tres annos et dimidium anni.” There is no real discrepancy here, as has been often assumed, with the account in 1 Kings: for as Benson has rightly observed, the words “in the third year” of 1Ki 18:1 by no necessity refer to the duration of the famine, but most naturally date back to the removal of Elijah to Zarephath, 1 Kings 17:8 ff.: cf. the same “many days” in 1 Kings 18:15 , where indeed a variation is “for a full year.” I cannot see how Huther can hold this to be an insufficient explanation, because we are bound to regard the drought as beginning immediately after Elijah’s announcement 1 Kings 17:1 ; nor how it appears that that announcement must necessarily have been made at the end of the summer season during which it had not rained):