27. So that not only this our craft
	is in danger . . . but, c.—that is, "that indeed is a
	small matter but there is something far worse." So the masters
	of the poor Pythoness put forward the religious revolution
	which Paul was attempting to effect at Philippi, as the sole cause of
	their zealous alarm, to cloak the self-interest which they felt to be
	touched by his success ( :-). In both cases religious zeal was the hypocritical
	pretext; self-interest, the real moving cause of the opposition made.
	also the temple of the great
	goddess Diana . . . despised, and her magnificence . . . destroyed,
	whom all Asia and the world worshippeth—It was reckoned one of
	the wonders of the world. It was built about 550 B.C.,
	of pure white marble, and though burned by a fanatic on the night of
	the birth of Alexander the Great, 356 B.C.,
	was rebuilt with more splendor than before. It was four hundred
	twenty-five feet long by two hundred twenty broad, and the columns,
	one hundred twenty-seven in number, were sixty feet in height, each
	of them the gift of a king, and thirty-six of them enriched with
	ornament and color. It was constantly receiving new decorations and
	additional buildings, statues, and pictures by the most celebrated
	artists, and kindled unparalleled admiration, enthusiasm, and
	superstition. Its very site is now a matter of uncertainty.
	The little wooden image of Diana was as primitive and rude as its
	shrine was sumptuous; not like the Greek Diana, in the form of
	an imposing huntress, but quite Asiatic, in the form of a
	many-breasted female (emblematic of the manifold ministrations of
	Nature to man), terminating in a shapeless block. Like some other
	far-famed idols, it was believed to have fallen from heaven ( :-), and models of it were not only sold in immense numbers to
	private persons, but set up for worship in other cities [HOWSON].
	What power must have attended the preaching of that one man by whom
	the death blow was felt to be given to their gigantic and witching
	superstition!