21. That as sin—Observe, the
	word "offense" is no more used, as that had been
	sufficiently illustrated; but—what better befitted this
	comprehensive summation of the whole matter—the great general term
	sin.
hath reigned unto
	death—rather, "in death," triumphing and (as it were)
	revelling in that complete destruction of its victims. 
	even so might grace reign—In
	Romans 5:14; Romans 5:17
	we had the reign of death over the guilty and condemned in
	Adam; here it is the reign of the mighty causes of these—of
	SIN which clothes Death a
	Sovereign with venomous power (Romans 5:17- :) and with awful authority (Romans 5:17- :), and of GRACE,
	the grace which originated the scheme of salvation, the grace which
	"sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world," the grace
	which "made Him to be sin for us who knew no sin," the
	grace which "makes us to be the righteousness of God in Him,"
	so that "we who receive the abundance of grace and of the
	gift of righteousness do reign in life by One, Jesus Christ!" 
	through righteousness—not
	ours certainly ("the obedience of Christians," to
	use the wretched language of GROTIUS)
	nor yet exactly "justification" [STUART,
	HODGE]; but rather, "the
	(justifying) righteousness of Christ" [BEZA,
	ALFORD, and in substance,
	OLSHAUSEN, MEYER];
	the same which in Romans 5:19 is
	called His "obedience," meaning His whole mediatorial work
	in the flesh. This is here represented as the righteous medium
	through which grace reaches its objects and attains all its ends, the
	stable throne from which Grace as a Sovereign dispenses its saving
	benefits to as many as are brought under its benign sway. 
	unto eternal life—which
	is salvation in its highest form and fullest development for ever. 
	by Jesus Christ our
	Lord—Thus, on that "Name which is above every name,"
	the echoes of this hymn to the glory of "Grace" die away,
	and "Jesus is left alone." 
	On reviewing this golden section
	of our Epistle, the following additional remarks occur: (1) If this
	section does not teach that the whole race of Adam, standing in him
	as their federal head, "sinned in him and fell with him in his
	first transgression," we may despair of any intelligible
	exposition of it. The apostle, after saying that Adam's sin
	introduced death into the world, does not say "and so death
	passed upon all men for that Adam "sinned," but "for
	that all sinned." Thus, according to the teaching of the
	apostle, "the death of all is for the sin of all"; and as
	this cannot mean the personal sins of each individual, but some sin
	of which unconscious infants are guilty equally with adults, it can
	mean nothing but the one "first transgression" of their
	common head, regarded as the sin of each of his race, and
	punished, as such, with death. It is vain to start back from this
	imputation to all of the guilt of Adam's first sin, as wearing the
	appearance of injustice. For not only are all other theories
	liable to the same objection, in some other form—besides being
	inconsistent with the text—but the actual facts of human nature,
	which none dispute, and which cannot be explained away, involve
	essentially the same difficulties as the great principle on
	which the apostle here explains them. If we admit this principle, on
	the authority of our apostle, a flood of light is at once thrown upon
	certain features of the divine procedure, and certain portions of the
	divine oracles, which otherwise are involved in much darkness; and if
	the principle itself seem hard to digest, it is not harder than the
	existence of evil, which, as a fact, admits of no dispute,
	but, as a feature in the divine administration, admits of no
	explanation in the present state. (2) What is called original
	sin—or that depraved tendency to evil with which every child of
	Adam comes into the world—is not formally treated of in this
	section (and even in the seventh chapter, it is rather its nature and
	operation than its connection with the first sin which is handled).
	But indirectly, this section bears testimony to it; representing the
	one original offense, unlike every other, as having an enduring
	vitality in the bosom of every child of Adam, as a principle of
	disobedience, whose virulence has gotten it the familiar name of
	"original sin." (3) In what sense is the word "death"
	used throughout this section? Not certainly as mere temporal
	death, as Arminian commentators affirm. For as Christ came to undo
	what Adam did, which is all comprehended in the word "death,"
	it would hence follow that Christ has merely dissolved the sentence
	by which soul and body are parted in death; in other words, merely
	procured the resurrection of the body. But the New Testament
	throughout teaches that the salvation of Christ is from a vastly more
	comprehensive "death" than that. But neither is death here
	used merely in the sense of penal evil, that is, "any
	evil inflicted in punishment of sin and for the support of law"
	[HODGE]. This is too
	indefinite, making death a mere figure of speech to denote "penal
	evil" in general—an idea foreign to the simplicity of
	Scripture—or at least making death, strictly so called, only one
	part of the thing meant by it, which ought not to be resorted to if a
	more simple and natural explanation can be found. By "death"
	then, in this section, we understand the sinner's destruction,
	in the only sense in which he is capable of it. Even temporal death
	is called "destruction" (Deuteronomy 7:23;
	1 Samuel 5:11, c.), as extinguishing
	all that men regard as life. But a destruction extending to the soul
	as well as the body, and into the future world, is clearly
	expressed in Matthew 7:13 2 Thessalonians 1:9;
	2 Peter 3:16, c. This is the penal
	"death" of our section, and in this view of it we retain
	its proper sense. Life—as a state of enjoyment of the favor of God,
	of pure fellowship with Him, and voluntary subjection to Him—is a
	blighted thing from the moment that sin is found in the creature's
	skirts in that sense, the threatening, "In the day that thou
	eatest thereof thou shalt surely die," was carried into
	immediate effect in the case of Adam when he fell; who was
	thenceforward "dead while he lived." Such are all his
	posterity from their birth. The separation of soul and body in
	temporal death carries the sinner's destruction" a stage
	farther; dissolving his connection with that world out of which he
	extracted a pleasurable, though unblest, existence, and ushering him
	into the presence of his Judge—first as a disembodied spirit, but
	ultimately in the body too, in an enduring condition—"to be
	punished (and this is the final state) with everlasting
	destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of
	His power." This final extinction in soul and body of all that
	constitutes life, but yet eternal consciousness of a blighted
	existence—this, in its amplest and most awful sense, is "DEATH"!
	Not that Adam understood all that. It is enough that he understood
	"the day" of his disobedience to be the terminating period
	of his blissful "life." In that simple idea was wrapt up
	all the rest. But that he should comprehend its details was
	not necessary. Nor is it necessary to suppose all that to be intended
	in every passage of Scripture where the word occurs. Enough that all
	we have described is in the bosom of the thing, and will be
	realized in as many as are not the happy subjects of the Reign of
	Grace. Beyond doubt, the whole of this is intended in such sublime
	and comprehensive passages as this: "God . . . gave His . . .
	Son that whosoever believeth in Him might not PERISH,
	but have everlasting LIFE"
	(John 3:16). And should not the
	untold horrors of that "DEATH"—already
	"reigning over" all that are not in Christ, and hastening
	to its consummation—quicken our flight into "the second Adam,"
	that having "received the abundance of grace and of the gift of
	righteousness, we may reign in LIFE
	by the One, Jesus Christ?"