17. For if by—"the" 
	one man's offence death
	reigned by one—"through the one." 
	much more shall they which
	receive—"the" 
	abundance of grace and of the
	gift of—justifying 
	righteousness . . . reign in
	life by one Jesus Christ—"through the one." We have
	here the two ideas of Romans 5:15;
	Romans 5:16 sublimely combined into
	one, as if the subject had grown upon the apostle as he advanced in
	his comparison of the two cases. Here, for the first time in this
	section, he speaks of that LIFE
	which springs out of justification, in contrast with the death which
	springs from sin and follows condemnation. The proper idea of it
	therefore is, "Right to live"—"Righteous life"—life
	possessed and enjoyed with the good will, and in conformity with the
	eternal law, of "Him that sitteth on the Throne"; life
	therefore in its widest sense—life in the whole man and throughout
	the whole duration of human existence, the life of blissful and
	loving relationship to God in soul and body, for ever and ever. It is
	worthy of note, too, that while he says death "reigned over"
	us through Adam, he does not say Life "reigns over us"
	through Christ; lest he should seem to invest this new life with the
	very attribute of death—that of fell and malignant tyranny, of
	which we were the hapless victims. Nor does he say Life reigns in
	us, which would have been a scriptural enough idea; but, which is
	much more pregnant, "We shall reign in life." While
	freedom and might are implied in the figure of
	"reigning," "life" is represented as the glorious
	territory or atmosphere of that reign. And by recurring to the idea
	of Romans 5:16, as to the "many
	offenses" whose complete pardon shows "the abundance of
	grace and of the gift of righteousness," the whole statement is
	to this effect: "If one man's one offense let loose against us
	the tyrant power of Death, to hold us as its victims in helpless
	bondage, 'much more,' when we stand forth enriched with God's
	'abounding grace' and in the beauty of a complete absolution from
	countless offenses, shall we expatiate in a life divinely owned and
	legally secured, 'reigning' in exultant freedom and unchallenged
	might, through that other matchless 'One,' Jesus Christ!" (On
	the import of the future tense in this last clause, see on Romans 5:16- :, and Romans 5:16- :).