19. For, c.—better, "For
	as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, even so
	by the obedience of the One shall the many be made righteous."
	On this great verse observe: First, By the "obedience"
	of Christ here is plainly not meant more than what divines call His
	active obedience, as distinguished from His sufferings and
	death it is the entire work of Christ in its obediential
	character. Our Lord Himself represents even His death as His great
	act of obedience to the Father: "This commandment (that is, to
	lay down and resume His life) have I received of My Father" ( :-). Second, The significant word twice rendered made,
	does not signify to work a change upon a person or thing, but
	to constitute or ordain, as will be seen from all the
	places where it is used. Here, accordingly, it is intended to express
	that judicial act which holds men, in virtue of their
	connection with Adam, as sinners; and, in connection with Christ, as
	righteous. Third, The change of tense from the past to
	the future—"as through Adam we were made sinners, so
	through Christ we shall be made righteous"—delightfully
	expresses the enduring character of the act, and of the economy to
	which such acts belong, in contrast with the for-ever-past ruin of
	believers in Adam. (See on  :-).
	Fourth, The "all men" of  :- and the "many" of  :- are the same party, though under a slightly different
	aspect. In the latter case, the contrast is between the one
	representative (Adam—Christ) and the many whom he
	represented; in the former case, it is between the one head
	(Adam—Christ) and the human race, affected for death and
	life respectively by the actings of that one. Only in this latter
	case it is the redeemed family of man that is alone in view; it is
	humanity as actually lost, but also as actually saved, as
	ruined and recovered. Such as refuse to fall in with the high purpose
	of God to constitute His Son a "second Adam," the Head of a
	new race, and as impenitent and unbelieving finally perish, have no
	place in this section of the Epistle, whose sole object is to show
	how God repairs in the second Adam the evil done by the first. (Thus
	the doctrine of universal restoration has no place here. Thus
	too the forced interpretation by which the "justification of
	all" is made to mean a justification merely in possibility
	and offer to all, and the "justification of the many"
	to mean the actual justification of as many as believe
	[ALFORD, c.], is
	completely avoided. And thus the harshness of comparing a whole
	fallen family with a recovered part is got rid of. However
	true it be in fact that part of mankind is not saved, this is
	not the aspect in which the subject is here presented. It is
	totals that are compared and contrasted and it is the same
	total in two successive conditions—namely, the human race
	as ruined in Adam and recovered in Christ).