33. But seek ye first the kingdom of
	God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto
	you—This is the great summing up. Strictly speaking, it has to
	do only with the subject of the present section—the right state of
	the heart with reference to heavenly and earthly things; but being
	couched in the form of a brief general directory, it is so
	comprehensive in its grasp as to embrace the whole subject of this
	discourse. And, as if to make this the more evident, the two keynotes
	of this great sermon seem purposely struck in it—"the KINGDOM"
	and "the RIGHTEOUSNESS"
	of the kingdom—as the grand objects, in the supreme pursuit of
	which all things needful for the present life will be added to us.
	The precise sense of every word in this golden verse should be
	carefully weighed. "The kingdom of God" is the
	primary subject of the Sermon on the Mount—that kingdom which the
	God of heaven is erecting in this fallen world, within which are all
	the spiritually recovered and inwardly subject portion of the family
	of Adam, under Messiah as its Divine Head and King. "The
	righteousness thereof" is the character of all such, so
	amply described and variously illustrated in the foregoing portions
	of this discourse. The "seeking" of these is the
	making them the object of supreme choice and pursuit; and the seeking
	of them "first" is the seeking of them before and
	above all else. The "all these things" which shall
	in that case be added to us are just the "all these things"
	which the last words of Matthew 6:32
	assured us "our heavenly Father knoweth that we have need of";
	that is, all we require for the present life. And when our Lord says
	they shall be "added," it is implied, as a matter of
	course, that the seekers of the kingdom and its righteousness shall
	have these as their proper and primary portion: the rest being their
	gracious reward for not seeking them. (See an illustration of
	the principle of this in 2 Chronicles 1:11;
	2 Chronicles 1:12). What follows is but a
	reduction of this great general direction into a practical and ready
	form for daily use.