1. Take heed that ye do not your
	alms—But the true reading seems clearly to be "your
	righteousness." The external authority for both readings is
	pretty nearly equal; but internal evidence is decidedly in favor of
	"righteousness." The subject of the second verse being
	"almsgiving" that word—so like the other in Greek—might
	easily be substituted for it by the copyist: whereas the opposite
	would not be so likely. But it is still more in favor of
	"righteousness," that if we so read the first verse, it
	then becomes a general heading for this whole section of the
	discourse, inculcating unostentatiousness in all deeds of
	righteousness—Almsgiving, Prayer, and Fasting being, in that case,
	but selected examples of this righteousness; whereas, if we read, "Do
	not your alms," c., this first verse will have no
	reference but to that one point. By "righteousness," in
	this case, we are to understand that same righteousness of the
	kingdom of heaven, whose leading features—in opposition to
	traditional perversions of it—it is the great object of this
	discourse to open up: that righteousness of which the Lord says,
	"Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the
	scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of
	heaven" (Matthew 5:20). To "do"
	this righteousness, was an old and well-understood expression. Thus,
	"Blessed is he that doeth righteousness at all times" (Matthew 5:20- :). It refers to the actings of righteousness in the
	life—the outgoings of the gracious nature—of which our Lord
	afterwards said to His disciples, "Herein is My Father
	glorified, that ye bear much fruit so shall ye be My disciples"
	(John 15:8). 
	before men, to be seen of
	them—with the view or intention of being beheld of them. See
	the same expression in Matthew 5:28.
	True, He had required them to let their light so shine before men
	that they might see their good works, and glorify their Father which
	is in heaven (Matthew 5:16). But
	this is quite consistent with not making a display of our
	righteousness for self-glorification. In fact, the doing of the
	former necessarily implies our not doing the latter. 
	otherwise ye have no reward
	of your Father which is in heaven—When all duty is done to
	God—as primarily enjoining and finally judging of it—He will take
	care that it be duly recognized; but when done purely for
	ostentation, God cannot own it, nor is His judgment of it even
	thought of—God accepts only what is done to Himself. So much for
	the general principle. Now follow three illustrations of it. 
	Almsgiving (Matthew 5:16- :).