Verse John 3:16. For God so loved the world — Such a love as that which induced God to give his only begotten son to die for the world could not be described: Jesus Christ does not attempt it. He has put an eternity of meaning in the particle ουτω, so, and left a subject for everlasting contemplation, wonder, and praise, to angels and to men. The same evangelist uses a similar mode of expression, 1 John 3:1: Behold, WHAT MANNER of love, ποταπην αγαπην, the Father hath bestowed upon us.From the subject before him, let the reader attend to the following particulars.First, The world was in a ruinous, condemned state, about to perish everlastingly; and was utterly without power to rescue itself from destruction.Secondly, That God, through the impulse of his eternal love, provided for its rescue and salvation, by giving his Son to die for it.Thirdly, That the sacrifice of Jesus was the only mean by which the redemption of man could be effected, and that it is absolutely sufficient to accomplish this gracious design: for it would have been inconsistent with the wisdom of God, to have appointed a sacrifice greater in itself, or less in its merit, than what the urgent necessities of the case required.Fourthly, That sin must be an indescribable evil, when it required no less a sacrifice, to make atonement for it, than God manifested in the flesh.Fifthly, That no man is saved through this sacrifice, but he that believes, i.e. who credits what God has spoken concerning Christ, his sacrifice, the end for which it was offered, and the way in which it is to be applied in order to become effectual.Sixthly, That those who believe receive a double benefit:1. They are exempted from eternal perdition-that they may not perish.2. They are brought to eternal glory - that they may have everlasting life. These two benefits point out tacitly the state of man: he is guilty, and therefore exposed to punishment: he is impure, and therefore unfit for glory.They point out also the two grand operations of grace, by which the salvation of man is effected.1. Justification, by which the guilt of sin is removed, and consequently the person is no longer obnoxious to perdition.2. Sanctification, or the purification of his nature, by which he is properly fitted for the kingdom of glory.