31. And again, departing from the
	coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the Sea of Galilee—or,
	according to what has very strong claims to be regarded as the true
	text here, "And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre, He
	came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee." The manuscripts in
	favor of this reading, though not the most numerous, are weighty,
	while the versions agreeing with it are among the most ancient; and
	all the best critical editors and commentators adopt it. In this case
	we must understand that our Lord, having once gone out of the Holy
	Land the length of Tyre, proceeded as far north as Sidon, though
	without ministering, so far as appears, in those parts, and then bent
	His steps in a southeasterly direction. There is certainly a
	difficulty in the supposition of so long a detour without any
	missionary object: and some may think this sufficient to cast the
	balance in favor of the received reading. Be this as it may, on
	returning from these coasts of Tyre, He passed 
	through the midst of the
	coasts—frontiers. 
	of Decapolis—crossing
	the Jordan, therefore, and approaching the lake on its east side.
	Here Matthew, who omits the details of the cure of this deaf and dumb
	man, introduces some particulars, from which we learn that it was
	only one of a great number. "And Jesus," says that
	Evangelist (Matthew 15:29-31),
	"departed from thence, and came nigh unto the Sea of Galilee,
	and went up into a mountain"—the mountain range bounding the
	lake on the northeast, in Decapolis: "And great multitudes came
	unto Him, having with them lame, blind, dumb, maimed"—not
	"mutilated," which is but a secondary sense of the word,
	but "deformed"—"and many others, and cast them down
	at Jesus' feet; and He healed them: insomuch that the multitude
	[multitudes] wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to
	be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see; and they glorified
	the God of Israel"—who after so long and dreary an absence of
	visible manifestation, had returned to bless His people as of old
	(compare Luke 7:16). Beyond this
	it is not clear from the Evangelist's language that the people saw
	into the claims of Jesus. Well, of these cases Mark here singles out
	one, whose cure had something peculiar in it.