Verse Luke 19:12. A certain nobleman — In the following parable there are two distinct morals intended; let it be viewed in these two points of light. 1. The behaviour of the citizens to the nobleman; and, 2. The behaviour of his own servants to him.1. By the behaviour of the citizens, and their punishment, (Luke 19:14; Luke 19:27,) we are taught that the Jews, who were the people of Christ, would reject him, and try to prevent his reigning over them in his spiritual kingdom, and would for that crime be severely punished by the destruction of their state. And this moral is all that answers to the introductory words, Luke 19:11. And they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.2. The other moral extends itself through the whole of the parable, viz. that the disciples of Christ, who are his servants; and who made a good improvement of the favours granted them by the Gospel, should be rewarded in proportion to the improvement made under the means of grace. This latter moral is all that is intended by Matthew in Matthew 25:14, c., who mentions this parable as spoken by Christ after his triumphant entry into Jerusalem though Luke has here placed that event after the parable. See Bishop PEARCE.The meaning of the different parts of this parable appears to be as follows.A certain nobleman - The Lord Jesus, who was shortly to be crucified by the Jews.Went into a far country — Ascended to the right hand of the Divine Majesty.To receive a kingdom — To take possession of the mediatorial kingdom, the right to which, as Messiah, he had acquired by his sufferings: see Philippians 2:8-9; Hebrews 1:3, Hebrews 1:8-9. In these words there is an allusion to the custom of those days, when they who had kingdoms or governments given unto them went to Rome to receive that dignity from the emperors. Bishop PEARCE. In proof of this, see Josephus, Ant. l. xiv. c. xiv., where we find Herod went to Rome to receive the sanction and authority of the Roman emperor. And, from lib. xvii. c. 3, we learn that his successors acted in the same way.And to return. — To judge and punish the rebellious Jews.