53-58. Except ye eat the flesh . . .
	and drink the blood . . . no life, c.—The harshest word He had
	yet uttered in their ears. They asked how it was possible to
	eat His flesh. He answers, with great solemnity, "It is
	indispensable." Yet even here a thoughtful hearer might
	find something to temper the harshness. He says they must not only
	"eat His flesh" but "drink His blood,"
	which could not but suggest the idea of His death—implied in
	the separation of one's flesh from his blood. And as He had already
	hinted that it was to be something very different from a natural
	death, saying, "My flesh I will give for the life of the world"
	(John 6:51), it must have been
	pretty plain to candid hearers that He meant something above the
	gross idea which the bare terms expressed. And farther, when He added
	that they "had no life in them unless they thus ate and
	drank," it was impossible they should think He meant that the
	temporal life they were then living was dependent on their
	eating and drinking, in this gross sense, His flesh and blood. Yet
	the whole statement was certainly confounding, and beyond doubt was
	meant to be so. Our Lord had told them that in spite of all they had
	"seen" in Him, they "did not believe" (John 6:51- :). For their conviction therefore he does not here lay
	Himself out but having the ear not only of them but of the more
	candid and thoughtful in the crowded synagogue, and the
	miracle of the loaves having led up to the most exalted of all views
	of His Person and Office, He takes advantage of their very
	difficulties and objections to announce, for all time, those most
	profound truths which are here expressed, regardless of the disgust
	of the unteachable, and the prejudices even of the most sincere,
	which His language would seem only designed to deepen. The truth
	really conveyed here is no other than that expressed in John 6:51- :, though in more emphatic terms—that He Himself, in the
	virtue of His sacrificial death, is the spiritual and eternal life of
	men; and that unless men voluntarily appropriate to themselves this
	death, in its sacrificial virtue, so as to become the very life and
	nourishment of their inner man, they have no spiritual and eternal
	life at all. Not as if His death were the only thing of value,
	but it is what gives all else in Christ's Incarnate Person, Life, and
	Office, their whole value to us sinners.