Matthew 21:33.  Hear another parable. Spoken to the chief priests and elders, so embittered by the result of their attack. This parable points out the crime to which their enmity was leading them, though still spoken in love. ‘I have not done with you  yet; I have still another word of warning and rebuke’ (Trench).
	 There was a  man that was a householder, or as in chap. Matthew 20:1: a human householder.
	 Planted a vineyard; the most valuable plantation but requiring the most constant labor and care; an apt figure of the theocracy (Isaiah 5:1-7; Isaiah 3:14; Song of Solomon 2:15,) here representing the Jewish people, as the Old Testament kingdom of God. A secondary application to the external Church in later times is required by Matthew 21:43, where the vineyard (‘the kingdom of God’) is represented as passing over to others.
	 Set a hedge about it. Probably a hedge of thorns, possibly a wall. God had separated His people from other nations, and guarded them from heathen influences, by the law (comp. Ephesians 2:14) and by external marks of distinction. God’s special proprietorship and care are plainly emphasized.
	 Digged  a wine-press. Mark: ‘digged a pit for the wine-press.’ The former was a receptacle into which the juice flowed, and where it was kept cool; the latter, the place where the grapes were trodden out. This seems to be added to complete the description. Some suppose it represents the altar of the Old Testament economy, others the prophetic institution.
	 Built a tower. For the watchman who guarded the vineyard against depredations. In the time of the vintage, used for recreation, no doubt, as in European countries. Such towers are still common in the East, and are of considerable height. A shed or scaffold sometimes served the same purpose. This represents the provision made by Goa for the protection and prosperity of His people, especially the Old Testament Church.
	 Let it out to husbandmen; probably for a part of the fruit, as is indicated by comparing Matthew 21:34 (‘his fruits’) with Luke 20:10 (‘of the fruit of the vineyard’). The parable of the laborers also (chap. Matthew 20:1-16) introduces the idea of reward. It has pleased God that in His kingdom of grace laborers should receive a reward, ‘of grace’ (comp. 1 Corinthians 3:8; 2 Timothy 2:6). The ‘husbandmen’  represent the rulers of the Jews (Matthew 21:45), but the people as individuals are included (Matthew 21:43). The vineyard is the people as a chosen nation.
	 And went into another country, not ‘far country,’ there being no reference to distance. The peculiar presence of God, necessary at the institution of the Theocracy (Mount Sinai, etc.), ceased, though His spiritual care did not. A period of human development followed. The same is true, in a secondary application, of the Church since the Apostolic times. Luke adds: ‘for a long time,’ and these developments require time.
	