Matthew 21:9.  And the multitudes that went before    him, etc. In responsive chorus. Such ‘antiphonies’ were common in Jewish worship, especially in the recitation of the Psalms. Those going before had probably come from Jerusalem to meet Him. Stanley: ‘Two vast streams of people met on that day. The one poured out from the city, and, as they came through the gardens whose clusters of palm rose on the southeastern comer of Olivet, they cut down the long branches, as was their wont at the feast of Tabernacles, and moved upward toward Bethany with loud shouts of welcome. From Bethany streamed forth the crowds, who had assembled there the previous night. The road soon loses sight of Bethany……The two streams met midway. Half of the vast mass, turning round preceded; the other half followed. Gradually the long procession swept up over the ridge where first begins “the descent of the Mount of Olives” toward Jerusalem. At this point the first view is caught of the southeastern corner of the city. The temple and the more northern portions are hid by the slope of Olivet on the right; what is seen is only   Mount Zion……It was at this precise point (may it not have been from the sight thus opening upon them?) that the shout of triumph burst forth from the multitude: “Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord!” A few moments and the path mounts again; it climbs a rugged ascent; it reaches a ledge of smooth rock, and in an instant the whole city bursts into view.’ Here He ‘wept over it’
	 Hosanna. The Greek form of a Hebrew word found in Psalms 118:25, meaning: ‘Save now,’ or ‘give thy salvation.’ Used as a congratulatory expression, here applied in the highest sense to the Messiah:  the Son of David.
	 Blessed is he that cometh.   etc. The greeting to the pilgrims at their entrance to Jerusalem on festival occasions (Psalms 118:26), and a part of the Passover hymn (Psalms 115-118.)
	 Hosanna in the highest,  i.e., May our Hosanna be ratified in heaven. Other exclamations are mentioned by Mark and Luke, since in such a multitude they would differ. The crowd with enthusiasm thus nail Him as the Messiah, probably cherishing political hopes.
	