 3 .]  that no one might be disquieted (ref.: Soph. Antig. 1214, παιδός με σαίνει φθόγγος : Eur. Rhes. 53, σαίνει μ ʼ ἔννυχος φρυκτώρια , &c. In these places  σαίνω is a  vox media , conveying the meaning of agitation, disquieting, which the context must interpret for better or worse)  in (in the midst of)  these tribulations (which are happening to us both). The construction of  τὸ μηδένα σαίνεσθαι is doubted. Lünem. enters into the matter, as usual, at length and thoroughly. He first deals with the rec.  τῷ μηδ . σ ., and exposes as ungrammatical the view which would regard it as a  dativus commodi , as = εἰς τὸ …, rejecting also Rückert’s more grammatical view, that it indicates “  unde nascituram τὴν παράκλησιν  speraverat, quum Timotheum misit, apostolus .” Then as to  τὸ μ . σ ., we may take it either 1) with Matthæi, supplying a second εἰς from the former εἰς τὸ στηρ . But then why is not the second εἰς expressed, as in Rom 4:11 ? Or, 2) with Schott, as a pendent accusative, in the sense ‘  quod attinet, ad .’ But this is a very rare construction, which has been often assumed without reason (see Bernhardy, pp. 132 ff.), and therefore should only be resorted to when no other supposition will help the construction: 3) Winer, edn. 3 (not in edn. 6), § 45. 3 anm., whom De W. and Ellicott follow, makes it dependent on παρακαλέσαι , and treats it as a further explanation of ὑπὲρ τῆς πίστεως viz. ‘  to exhort, that none should become unstable .’ But if τὸ μηδ . σαίν . depended on παρακαλέσαι , then παρακαλεῖν , in the sense of ‘  to exhort ,’ would be followed by a imple accusative of the thing, which though perhaps possible, see 1 Timothy 6:2 , is very harsh. (Consult however Ellicott’s note, as to the mere mediate dependence of such clauses on the governing verb in comparison with the immediate dependence of substantives.) Besides, if τὸ μ . σ . were a further specification of ὑπὲρ τῆς πίστεως ὑμῶν , it would not be accusative but genitive. 4) It only remains that we should take  τὸ μ  .   σ  . as in apposition with the whole foregoing sentence, εἰς τὸ στ . ὑ . κ . παρ . ὑπ . τ . πίστ . ὑμ . so that τὸ μηδ . σαίν . serves only to repeat the same thought, which was before positively expressed, in a negative but better defined form:  τό being nearly = τουτέστι . So that the sense is:  to confirm you and exhort you on behalf of your faith, that is, that no one may be shaken in these troubles :  τὸ μηδ  . being dependent, not on a second εἰς understood, as in (1), but on the first εἰς , which is expressed. With this view I entirely agree, only adding, that instead of making τό = τουτέστι , I would rather say that τουτέστι might have been  inserted before τὸ μηδένα .
	 αὐτοὶ γὰρ …]  Reason why no one should be shaken . Griesb., al., parenthesize αὐτοὶ οἴδατε 1 Thessalonians 3:4 ; but wrongly, for διὰ τοῦτο 1 Thessalonians 3:5 , connects with this sentence immediately.  οἴδατε ; probably not for Theodoret’s reason: ἄνωθεν ἡμῖν ταῦτα προηγόρευσεν ὁ δεσπότης χριστός , but for that given in 1 Thessalonians 3:4 .
	 εἰς τοῦτο , viz. to θλίβεσθαι , contained in θλίψεις above: the subject to κείμεθα being ‘we Christians.’