9. Contrast in the privileges
	and destinies of believers. Compare the similar contrast with the
	preceding context. 
	chosen—"elect"
	of God, even as Christ your Lord is. 
	generation—implying the
	unity of spiritual origin and kindred of believers as a class
	distinct from the world. 
	royal—kingly.
	Believers, like Christ, the antitypical Melchisedec, are at once
	kings and priests. Israel, in a spiritual sense, was
	designed to be the same among the nations of the earth. The full
	realization on earth of this, both to the literal and the spiritual
	Israel, is as yet future. 
	holy nation—antitypical
	to Israel. 
	peculiar people—literally,
	"a people for an acquisition," that is, whom God
	chose to be peculiarly His:  :-, "purchased," literally, "acquired."
	God's "peculiar treasure" above others. 
	show forth—publish
	abroad. Not their own praises but His. They have no
	reason to magnify themselves above others for once they had been in
	the same darkness, and only through God's grace had been brought to
	the light which they must henceforth show forth to others. 
	praises—Greek,
	"virtues," "excellencies": His glory, mercy
	(1 Peter 2:10), goodness
	(Greek, 1 Peter 2:3; Numbers 14:17;
	Numbers 14:18; Isaiah 63:7).
	The same term is applied to believers, Isaiah 63:7- :. 
	of him who hath called you—
	(2 Peter 1:3). 
	out of darkness—of
	heathen and even Jewish ignorance, sin, and misery, and so out of the
	dominion of the prince of darkness. 
	marvellous—Peter still
	has in mind Psalms 118:23. 
	light—It is called
	"His," that is, God's. Only the (spiritual) light is
	created by God, not darkness. In Psalms 118:23- :, it is physical darkness and evil, not moral, that God is
	said to create, the punishment of sin, not sin itself. Peter,
	with characteristic boldness, brands as darkness what all the
	world calls light; reason, without the Holy Spirit, in spite
	of its vaunted power, is spiritual darkness. "It cannot
	apprehend what faith is: there it is stark blind; it gropes as one
	that is without eyesight, stumbling from one thing to another, and
	knows not what it does" [LUTHER].