2. new-born babes—altogether
	without "guile" (1 Peter 2:1).
	As long as we are here we are "babes," in a specially
	tender relation to God (1 Peter 2:1- :). The childlike spirit is indispensable if we would enter
	heaven. "Milk" is here not elementary truths in
	contradistinction to more advanced Christian truths, as in 1 Corinthians 3:2;
	Hebrews 5:12; Hebrews 5:13;
	but in contrast to "guile, hypocrisies," c. (Hebrews 5:13- :) the simplicity of Christian doctrine in general to
	the childlike spirit. The same "word of grace" which is the
	instrument in regeneration, is the instrument also of building up.
	"The mother of the child is also its natural nurse"
	[STEIGER]. The babe,
	instead of chemically analyzing, instinctively desires and feeds on
	the milk; so our part is not self-sufficient rationalizing and
	questioning, but simply receiving the truth in the love of it (Hebrews 5:13- :). 
	desire—Greek,
	"have a yearning desire for," or "longing after,"
	a natural impulse to the regenerate, "for as no one needs to
	teach new-born babes what food to take, knowing instinctively that a
	table is provided for them in their mother's breast," so the
	believer of himself thirsts after the word of God (Hebrews 5:13- :). Compare TATIUS'
	language as to Achilles. 
	sincere—Greek,
	"guileless." Compare Hebrews 5:13- :, "laying aside guile." IRENÆUS
	says of heretics. They mix chalk with the milk. The article, "the,"
	implies that besides the well-known pure milk, the Gospel,
	there is no other pure, unadulterated doctrine; it alone can make us
	guileless (1 Peter 2:1). 
	of the word—Not as
	ALFORD, "spiritual,"
	nor "reasonable," as English Version in 1 Peter 2:1- :. The Greek "logos" in Scripture is
	not used of the reason, or mind, but of the WORD; the
	preceding context requires that "the word" should be meant
	here; the adjective "logikos" follows the
	meaning of the noun logos, "word." 1 Peter 2:1- :, "Lay apart all filthiness . . . and receive
	with meekness the engrafted WORD,"
	is exactly parallel, and confirms English Version here. 
	grow—The oldest
	manuscripts and versions read, "grow unto salvation."
	Being BORN again unto
	salvation, we are also to grow unto salvation. The end to
	which growth leads is perfected salvation. "Growth is the
	measure of the fulness of that, not only rescue from destruction, but
	positive blessedness, which is implied in salvation"
	[ALFORD]. 
	thereby—Greek,
	"in it"; fed on it; in its strength (1 Peter 2:1- :). "The word is to be desired with appetite as the
	cause of life, to be swallowed in the hearing, to be chewed as cud is
	by rumination with the understanding, and to be digested by faith"
	[TERTULLIAN].