5. Ye also, as lively
	stones—partaking of the name and life which is in "THE
	LIVING STONE"
	(1 Peter 2:4; 1 Corinthians 3:11).
	Many names which belong to Christ in the singular are assigned to
	Christians in the plural. He is "THE
	SON," "High
	Priest," "King," "Lamb"; they, "sons,"
	"priests," "kings," "sheep," "lambs."
	So the Shulamite called from Solomon [BENGEL].
	are built up—Greek,
	"are being built up," as in 1 Corinthians 3:11- :. Not as ALFORD,
	"Be ye built up." Peter grounds his exhortations, 1 Peter 2:2;
	1 Peter 2:11, c., on their conscious
	sense of their high privileges as living stones in the course of
	being built up into a spiritual house (that is, "the
	habitation of the Spirit"). 
	priesthood—Christians
	are both the spiritual temple and the priests of the
	temple. There are two Greek words for "temple"
	hieron (the sacred place), the whole building,
	including the courts wherein the sacrifice was killed; and
	naos (the dwelling, namely, of God), the inner shrine
	wherein God peculiarly manifested Himself, and where, in the holiest
	place, the blood of the slain sacrifice was presented before
	Him. All believers alike, and not merely ministers, are now the
	dwelling of God (and are called the "naos," Greek,
	not the hieron) and priests unto God (1 Peter 2:11- :). The minister is not, like the Jewish priest (Greek,
	"hiercus"), admitted nearer to God than the people,
	but merely for order's sake leads the spiritual services of the
	people. Priest is the abbreviation of presbyter in the
	Church of England Prayer Book, not corresponding to the
	Aaronic priest (hiereus, who offered literal
	sacrifices). Christ is the only literal hiereus-priest in the
	New Testament through whom alone we may always draw near to God.
	Compare 1 Peter 2:9, "a royal
	priesthood," that is, a body of priest-kings, such as was
	Melchisedec. The Spirit never, in New Testament, gives the name
	hiereus, or sacerdotal priest, to ministers of the
	Gospel. 
	holy—consecrated to
	God. 
	spiritual sacrifices—not
	the literal one of the mass, as the Romish self-styled disciples of
	Peter teach. Compare Isaiah 56:7,
	which compare with "acceptable to God" here; Psalms 4:5;
	Psalms 50:14; Psalms 51:17;
	Psalms 51:19; Hosea 14:2;
	Philippians 4:18. "Among spiritual
	sacrifices the first place belongs to the general oblation of
	ourselves. For never can we offer anything to God until we have
	offered ourselves (2 Corinthians 8:5) in
	sacrifice to Him. There follow afterwards prayers, giving of thanks,
	alms deeds, and all exercises of piety" [CALVIN].
	Christian houses of worship are never called temples because the
	temple was a place for sacrifice, which has no place in
	the Christian dispensation; the Christian temple is the congregation
	of spiritual worshippers. The synagogue (where reading of Scripture
	and prayer constituted the worship) was the model of the Christian
	house of worship (compare Note, see on 2 Corinthians 8:5- :, Greek, "synagogue"; 2 Corinthians 8:5- :). Our sacrifices are those of prayer, praise, and
	self-denying services in the cause of Christ (2 Corinthians 8:5- :, end). 
	by Jesus Christ—as our
	mediating High Priest before God. Connect these words with "offer
	up." Christ is both precious Himself and makes us
	accepted [BENGEL].
	As the temple, so also the priesthood, is built on Christ (1 Peter 2:4;
	1 Peter 2:5) [BEZA].
	Imperfect as are our services, we are not with unbelieving timidity,
	which is close akin to refined self-righteousness, to doubt their
	acceptance THROUGH CHRIST.
	After extolling the dignity of Christians he goes back to CHRIST
	as the sole source of it.