12. conversation—"behavior";
	"conduct." There are two things in which "strangers
	and pilgrims" ought to bear themselves well: (1) the
	conversation or conduct, as subjects ( :-), servants (1 Peter 2:18),
	wives (1 Peter 3:1), husbands (1 Peter 3:1- :), all persons under all circumstances (1 Peter 3:1- :); (2) confession of the faith (1 Peter 3:15;
	1 Peter 3:16). Each of the two is
	derived from the will of God. Our conversation should
	correspond to our Saviour's condition; this is in heaven, so ought
	that to be. 
	honest—honorable,
	becoming, proper (1 Peter 3:16).
	Contrast "vain conversation," 1 Peter 3:16- :. A good walk does not make us pious, but we must first be
	pious and believe before we attempt to lead a good course. Faith
	first receives from God, then love gives to our neighbor [LUTHER].
	whereas they speak against
	you—now (1 Peter 2:15),
	that they may, nevertheless, at some time or other hereafter
	glorify God. The Greek may be rendered, "Wherein
	they speak against you . . . that (herein) they may, by your
	good works, which on a closer inspection they shall behold,
	glorify God." The very works "which on more careful
	consideration, must move the heathen to praise God, are at first the
	object of hatred and raillery" [STEIGER].
	evildoers—Because as
	Christians they could not conform to heathenish customs, they were
	accused of disobedience to all legal authority; in order to rebut
	this charge, they are told to submit to every ordinance of man
	(not sinful in itself). 
	by—owing to. 
	they shall behold—Greek,
	"they shall be eye-witnesses of"; "shall behold
	on close inspection"; as opposed to their "ignorance"
	(1 Peter 2:15) of the true
	character of Christians and Christianity, by judging on mere hearsay.
	The same Greek verb occurs in a similar sense in 1 Peter 2:15- :. "Other men narrowly look at (so the Greek
	implies) the actions of the righteous" [BENGEL].
	TERTULLIAN contrasts the
	early Christians and the heathen: these delighted in the bloody
	gladiatorial spectacles of the amphitheater, whereas a Christian was
	excommunicated if he went to it at all. No Christian was found in
	prison for crime, but only for the faith. The heathen excluded slaves
	from some of their religious services, whereas Christians had some of
	their presbyters of the class of slaves. Slavery silently and
	gradually disappeared by the power of the Christian law of love,
	"Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to
	them." When the pagans deserted their nearest relatives in a
	plague, Christians ministered to the sick and dying. When the
	Gentiles left their dead unburied after a battle and cast their
	wounded into the streets, the disciples hastened to relieve the
	suffering. 
	glorify—forming a high
	estimate of the God whom Christians worship, from the exemplary
	conduct of Christians themselves. We must do good, not with a view to
	our own glory, but to the glory of God.
the day of visitation—of
	God's grace; when God shall visit them in mercy.