After that,.... A little time, or some few hours after, on the selfsame day; see Luke 24:13;he appeared in another form: it seems to have been the form, or habit of a gardener that he appeared in to Mary; since she thought him to be one, and to be the gardener that belonged to the garden, in which the sepulchre was: but now it was in another form, or habit, that he appeared; very likely in the habit of a Scribe, or doctor; since he took upon him to expound the Scriptures to the persons he appeared to; as also took bread, and blessed it, when at supper with them, Luke 24:27. According to the Jewish canons m"if two persons eat together, and one of them is a Scribe, and the other an unlearned man, סופר מברך, "the Scribe blesses", and the unlearned man is excused.''This is not to be understood of any change in the shape of his body, or the features of his face; for as soon as their eyes were opened, which had been before held, they knew him perfectly well: whereas, if there had been such an alteration made in him, that he could not have been known for the same, there would have been no need of holding their eyes, that they should not know him, Luke 24:16. This appearance wasunto two of them; one of them was Cleophas, or Alphaeus, which is the same, Luke 24:18; the other is by some n thought to be Simon Peter, from what is said in Luke 24:34 though others o think it was Nathanael, and others p Luke the evangelist, who conceals his own name, when he mentions the other; and some q that his name was Ammaon, which perhaps may be through mistake of the place, Emmaus, where they were going, for the name of one of them, and the appearance to them was,as they walked, and went into the country: to a country village called Emmaus, about sixty furlongs, or seven miles and a half from Jerusalem; see Luke 24:13.m T. Bab. Beracot, fol. 45. 2. n Lightfoot, Hor. in. v. 13. & in Luk. xxiv. 13. o Epiphan contra Haeres. l. 1. Haeres. 23. p Vid. Theophylact. in Luc. xxiv. 13. q Ambros in Luc. 12. 49. & 24.