 1. ]  δέ , in contrast to the former entire unity of the church: introducing that great and important chapter in her history of  Judaizing divisions , which from this time onward disquieted her.
	 ἐν τ  .   ἡμ  .   τ  . ] See ch. Acts 1:15 : but not necessarily as there, ‘within a very few days:’ the expression is quite indefinite. Some time must have elapsed since ch. Acts 4:32 .
	 Ἑλληνιστῶν  Ἑβραίους ] The  Hellenists (from ἑλληνίζειν ) were the  Grecian Jews : not only those who were  themselves proselytes, nor only those who  came of families once proselytized, but all who, on account of origin or habitation,  spoke Greek as their ordinary language, and used ordinarily the LXX version.
	The  Hebrews were the  pure Jews , not necessarily  resident in Palestine (e.g. Paul, who was Ἑβραῖος ἐξ Ἑβραίων , Philippians 3:5 . See also 2Co 11:22 ), nor necessarily of  unmixed Jewish descent , else the ἐξ Ἑβρ . would hardly have been an additional distinction, but rather distinguished by  language , as speaking the Syro-Chaldaic and using the Hebrew Scriptures.
	 παρεθεωροῦντο  ] The use of this appropriate word shews, I think, that Olsh.’s supposition, that χῆραι implies  all their poor , is not correct. Those poor who could attend for themselves and represent their case were served: but the  widows , who required more searching out at their own houses, were overlooked. And this because the Apostles, who certainly before this had the charge of the duty of distribution, being already too much occupied in the ministry of the Word to attend personally to it, had entrusted it apparently to some deputies among the  Hebrews , who had committed this oversight. For the low estimation in which the Hellenistic Jews were held by the  Hebrews , see Biscoe, History of the Acts, pp. 60, 61.
	 ἐν τῇ διακ. τ. καθ. ] Some have argued from this that there must have been ‘deacons’ before: and that those now elected (see below on their names) were only for the service of the Hellenistic Jews. But I should rather believe, with De Wette and Röthe, that the Apostles had as yet, by themselves or by non-official deputies, performed the duty. The διακονία was the daily distribution of food: see on Acts 6:2 .