 9. ]  Λιβερτίνων is rightly explained by Chrysostom: οἱ Ῥωμαίων ἀπελεύθεροι . Philo, Legat. ad Caium, § 23, vol. ii. p. 568, speaks of τὴν πέραν τοῦ Τιβέρεως ποταμοῦ μεγάλην τῆς Ῥώμης ἀποτομὴν … κατεχομένην κα οἰκουμένην πρὸς Ἰουδαίων , and adds, Ῥωμαῖοι δὲ ἦσαν οἱ πλείους ἀπελευθερωθέντες · αἰχμάλωτοι γὰρ ἀχθέντες εἰς Ἰταλίαν , ὑπὸ τῶν κτησαμένων ἠλευθερώθησαν , οὐδὲν τῶν πατρίων παραχαράξαι βιασθέντες (p. 1014, Potter). Tacitus, Ann. ii. 85 (A.D. 19), relates, ‘Actum et de sacris Ægyptiis Judaicisque pellendis: factumque Patrum consultum, ut quatuor millia libertini generis, ea superstitione infecta, queis idonea ætas, in insulam Sardiniam veherentur … cæteri cederent Italia, nisi certam ante diem profanos ritus exuissent.’ In this Josephus agrees, Antt. xviii. 3. 5, relating a story as one of its causes, in which Ida, a freedwoman, was the agent of the mischief. Here then we have abundant reason for numbers of these Jews ‘libertini generis’ having come to Jerusalem, being among the  cœteri who were ordered to quit Italy: and what place so likely a refuge for Jews as Jerusalem?
	Those who find a difficulty in this interpretation suppose them to have been inhabitants of Libertum, a town in Africa propria, or proconsularis, from which we find an episcopus Libertinensis sitting in the synod of Carthage in 411 (so Suidas, Λιβερτῖνοι , ὄνομα ἔθνους , Schleusn., al.); or conjecture Λιβυστίνων to have been the true reading (so the Arm. version,  Libyorum , Œcum., Lyra, Beza, Le Clerc, al.), or even Λιβύων τῶν κατὰ Κυρήνην (Schulthess); or suppose them (Lightf.) to have been freedmen from Jewish servitude, or Italian freedmen, who had become proselytes. (The Arabic version given in the Paris polyglott curiously renders it  Corinthiorum .) But none of these suppositions will bear examination, and the best interpretation is the usual one that they were the descendants of Jewish freedmen at Rome, who had been expelled by Tiberius. There is no difficulty in their having had a synagogue of their own: for there were 460 or 480 synagogues at Jerusalem (Vitringa, Synag. p. 256. Lightf., Meyer).
	 Κυρηναίων ] See ch. Acts 2:10 , note.
	 Ἀλεξανδρέων ] Two of the five regions of Alexandria were inhabited by Jews (see Jos. Antt. xiv. 7. 2, 10. 1; xix. 5. 2 al.). It was also the seat of the learning and philosophy of the Grecian Jews, which was now at its height. This metropolis of the Hellenists would certainly have a synagogue in Jerusalem. I understand  three distinct synagogues to be meant, notwithstanding the somewhat equivocal construction, and λεγομένης only to apply to the unusual term Λιβερτίνων .
	 τῶν ἀπὸ Κ .] It seems doubtful whether this genitive also depends on συναγωγῆς . At first sight it would seem not, from the repetition of τῶν , answering to the τῶν before. But then we must remember, that as Κυρηναίων and Ἀλεξανδρέων both belong to  towns , and towns well known as the residences of Jews, a change of designation would be necessary when the Jews of whole provinces came to be mentioned, and the synagogue would not be called that of the Κίλικες or Ἀσιανοί (ch. Act 20:4 ), but that of  οἱ ἀπὸ Κ  .   κ  .   Ἀ  . : and, this being the case, the article could not but be repeated, without any reference to the τῶν before.
	 Cilicia was at this time a Roman province, the capital being the free city of Tarsus, see note on ch. Acts 9:11 .
	 Asia , not exactly as in ch. Acts 2:9 , where it is distinguished from Phrygia, here and usually in the Acts implies Asia proconsularis, a large and important Roman province, including Mysia, Lydia, Caria, and Phrygia known also as Asia cis Taurum.