 5. ]  πίστεως , not in the lower sense (Kuin.) of ‘truthfulness,’ but in the higher of  faith , the root of all Christian virtues: see ch. Acts 11:24 (De W.).
	Of these seven, Stephen and Philip (ch. Acts 8:5 ; Acts 8:26 ; Acts 8:40 ; Act 21:8 ) only are elsewhere mentioned. On the idea of Nicolas having founded the heretical sect of the Nicolaitanes, Revelation 2:6 ; Revelation 2:15 (Lightf. and Grot. from Iren [43] adv. Hær. i. 26, p. 105, and Epiph [44] Hær. 25, p. 76), see note ad loc. From his being called προσήλυτον Ἀντιοχέα , some have argued (Heins.) that  he only was a proselyte, and none of the rest: some (Salmasius), that  all were proselytes, but the rest, of Jerusalem. But neither inference seems justified: rather I should say that the addition simply imports that he became better known than the rest, from the very circumstance perhaps of Antioch having been afterwards so important a spot in the Christian history (ch. Acts 11:19 , note). These names are  all Greek : but we cannot thence infer that the seven were all Hellenists: the Apostles Philip and Andrew bore Greek names, but were certainly not Hellenists. There does appear however, in the case of these two Apostles, to have been a connexion with Greeks of some sort, see John 12:20-22 . Possibly, though Ἑβραῖοι , they may not have been ἑξ Ἑβραίων (see above on Act 6:1 ), but sprung from inter-marriage with Hellenists. And so these seven may have been partly Ἑβραῖοι , though their names seem to indicate, and their office would appear to require, that they were connected with Hellenists, and not likely to overlook or disparage them. The title of ‘  deacons ’ is no where applied to these seven in Scripture, nor does the word occur in the Acts at all. In 1 Timothy 3:8 ff. there is no absolute identification of the duties of deacons with those allotted to the seven, but at the same time nothing to imply that they were different. And ἀνέγκλητοι , ib. 1 Timothy 6:10 , at all events is parallel with our μαρτυρουμένους , Acts 6:3 . The universal consent of all Christian writers in regarding this as the institution of the office of deacons should not be overlooked: but at the same time we must be careful not to imagine that we have here the institution of the  ecclesiastical order so named. The distinctness of the two is stated by Chrysostom, Hom. xiv. p. 115, ὁποῖον δὲ ἆρα ἀξίωμα εἶχον οὗτοι , καὶ ποίαν ἐδέξαντο χειροτονίαν , ἀναγκαῖον μαθεῖν . ἆρα τὴν τῶν διακόνων ; καὶ μὴν τοῦτο ἐν ταῖς ἐκκλησίαις οὐκ ἔστιν · ἀλλὰ τῶν πρεσβυτέρων ἐστὶν ἡ οἰκονομία . ὅθεν οὔτε διακόνων , οὔτε πρεσβυτέρων οἶμαι τὸ ὄνομα εἶναι δῆλον καὶ φανερόν . ἀλλὰ τέως εἰς τοῦτο ἐχειροτονήθησαν . So also Œcumenius in loc.: τοὺς ἐκλεγέντας εἰς διακόνους ἐχειροτόνησαν , οὐ κατὰ τὸν νῦν ἐν ταῖς ἐκκλησίαις βαθμόν , ἀλλὰ τοῦ διανέμειν μετὰ ἀκριβείας καὶ ὀρφανοῖς καὶ χήραις τὰ πρὸς διατροφήν . See Suicer sub voce.
	 [43] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	 [44] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	But that the subsequent office of deacon was founded upon this appointment is very probable. The only one of these seven who appears in the subsequent history (ch. Act 21:8 ), is called Φίλιππος ὁ εὐαγγελιστής , probably from the success granted him as recorded in ch. Acts 8:12 . In these early days titles sprung out of realities, and were not yet mere hierarchical classifications.