I stand at the door and knock. Compare Song of Solomon 5:2, Krouw I knock was regarded as a less classical word than koptw. Krouw is to knock with the knuckles, to rap; koptw, with a heavy blow; yofein of the knocking of some one within the door, warning one without to withdraw when the door is opened. Compare James 5:9. "He at whose door we ought to stand (for He is the Door, who, as such, has bidden us to knock), is content that the whole relation between Him and us should be reversed, and, instead of our standing at His door, condescends Himself to stand at ours" (Trench). The Greeks had a word quraulein for a lover waiting at the door of his beloved. Trench cites a passage from Nicolaus Cabasilas, a Greek divine of the fourteenth century : "Love for men emptied God (Philippians 2:7). For He doth not abide in His place and summon to Himself the servant whom He loved; but goes Himself and seeks him; and He who is rich comes to the dwelling of the poor, and discloses His love, and seeks an equal return; nor does He withdraw from him who repels Him, nor is He disgusted at his insolence; but, pursuing him, remains sitting at his doors, and that He may show him the one who loves him, He does all things, and sorrowing, bears and dies." My voice. Christ not only knocks but speaks. "The voice very often will interpret and make intelligible the purpose of the knock" (Trench). Hear - open the door. No irresistible grace. Will sup [δειπνησω] . See on Luke 14:12. For the image, compare Song of Solomon 5:2-6; Song of Solomon 4:16; Song of Solomon 2:3. Christ is the Bread of Life, and invites to the great feast. See Matthew 8:11; Matthew 25:1 sqq. The consummation will be at the marriage - supper of the Lamb (Mark 14:25; Revelation 19:7-9). He with me. It is characteristic of John to note the sayings of Christ which express the reciprocal relations of Himself and His followers. See John 6:56; John 10:38; John 14:20; John 14:4, John 14:5; John 17:21, John 17:26. Compare John 14:23.