I counsel [συμβουλευω] . With a certain irony. Though He might command, yet He advises those who are, in their own estimation, supplied with everything. To buy. Compare Isaiah 4:1; Matthew 13:44, Matthew 13:46. Those who think themselves rich, and yet have just been called beggars by the Lord, are advised by Him to buy. The irony, however, covers a sincere and gracious invitation. The goods of Christ are freely given, yet they have their price - renunciation of self and of the world. Gold [χρυσιον] . Often of gold money or ornaments. So 1 Peter 1:18; Acts 3:6; 1 Peter 3:3. Also of native gold and gold which has been smelted and wrought (Hebrews 9:4). There may very properly be a reference to the extensive money transactions of Laodicea. Tried in the fire [πεπυρωμενον εκ πορος] . The verb means to burn, to be on fire : in the perfect passive, as here, kindled, made to glow; thence melted by fire, and so refined. Rev., refined by, fire. By fire is, literally, out of the fire (ejk; see on Chapter Revelation 2:7). White raiment. Rev., garments. See on verse 4. Mayest be clothed [περιβαλη] . Rev., more literally, mayest clothe thyself. See on verse 5. Do not appear [μη φανερωθη] . Rev., more literally, be not made manifest. See on John 21:1. Stripping and exposure is a frequent method of putting to open shame. See 2 Samuel 10:4; Isaiah 20:4; Isaiah 47:23; Ezekiel 16:37. Compare also Matthew 22:11-13; Colossians 3:10-14. Anoint thine eyes with eye - salve [κολλουριον εγχρισον τους οφθαλμους σου] . The correct reading is egcrisai, the infinitive, to anoint, instead of the imperative. So Rev., eye - salve to anoint thine eyes. Kollourion, of which the Latin collyrium is a transcript, is a diminutive of kollura a roll of coarse bread. See 1 Kings 14:3, Sept.; A. V., cracknels. Here applied to a roll or stick of ointment for the eyes. Horace, describing his Brundisian journey, relates how, at one point, he was troubled with inflamed eyes, and anointed them with black eye - salve (nigra collyria. Sat., 1, 5, 30). Juvenal, describing a superstitious woman, says : "If the corner of her eye itches when rubbed, she consults her horoscope before calling for salve" (collyria; 6., 577). The figure sets forth the spiritual anointing by which the spiritual vision is purged. Compare Augustine, "Confessions, 7, 7, 8." Through my own swelling was I separated from Thee; yea, my pride - swollen face closed up mine eyes.... It was pleasing in Thy sight to reform my deformities; and by inward goads didst Thou rouse me, that I should be ill at ease until Thou wert manifested to my inward sight. Thus, by the secret hand of Thy medicining, was my swelling abated, and the troubled and bedimmed eyesight of my mind, by the smarting anointings of healthful sorrows, was from day to day healed. " Compare 1 John 2:20, 1 John 2:27.