Sardis. The capital of the ancient kingdom of Lydia. It was situated in a plain watered by the river Pactolus. The city was of very ancient origin. Herodotus (i., 84) gives the account of its siege and capture by Cyrus, and of its previous fortification by an old king, Meles. It was ruled by a series of able princes, the last of whom was Croesus, celebrated for his wealth and his misfortunes. In the earlier part of his reign he extended his dominion over the whole of Asia Minor, with the exception of Lycia and Cilicia. The Lydian rule was terminated by the conquest of Cyrus. From the Persians it passed into the hands of Alexander the Great, after which, for the next three hundred years, its fortunes are obscure. In B. C. 214 it was taken and sacked by Antiochus the Great after a siege of two years. The kings of Pergamus next succeeded to the dominion, and from them it passed into the hands of the Romans. In the time of Tiberius it was desolated by an earthquake, together with eleven or twelve other important cities of Asia, and the calamity was increased by a pestilence. Sardis was in very early times an important commercial city Pliny says that the art of dyeing wool was invented there, and it was the entrep??f the dyed woolen manufactures, carpets, etc., the raw material for which was furnished by the flocks of Phrygia. It was also the place where the metal electrum was procured. Gold was found in the bed of the Pactolus. Silver and gold coins are said to have been first minted there, and it was at one time known as a slave - mart. The impure worship of the goddess Cybele was celebrated there, and the massive ruins of her temple are still to be seen. The city is now a heap of ruins. In 1850 no human being found a dwelling there. The seven Spirits of God. See on chapter Revelation 1:4. 1. Be watchful [γινου γρηγορων] . Lit., become awake and on the watch. See on Mark 13:35; 1 Peter 5:8. Become what thou art not. Strengthen [στηριξον] . See on 1 Peter 5:10, and compare Luke 22:32; Romans 1:11; 2 Thessalonians 3:3. That are ready to die [α μελλει αποθανειν] . Read emellon were ready or about (to die). I have not found thy works [ου ευρηκα σου τα εργα] . Some texts omit the article before works, in which case we should render, I have found no works of thine. So Rev. Perfect [πεπληρωμενα] . Lit., fulfilled. So Rev. God. The best texts insert mou, "my God."