3. declared—The letter is
	written so legibly that it can be "read by all men" ( :-). Translate, "Being manifestly shown to be an Epistle of
	Christ"; a letter coming manifestly from Christ, and "ministered
	by us," that is, carried about and presented by us as its
	(ministering) bearers to those (the world) for whom it is intended:
	Christ is the Writer and the Recommender, ye are the letter
	recommending us. 
	written not with ink, but
	with the Spirit of the living God—Paul was the ministering pen
	or other instrument of writing, as well as the ministering bearer and
	presenter of the letter. "Not with ink" stands in contrast
	to the letters of commendation which "some" at Corinth ( :-) used. "Ink" is also used here to include all
	outward materials for writing, such as the Sinaitic tables of stone
	were. These, however, were not written with ink, but "graven"
	by "the finger of God" (Exodus 31:18;
	Exodus 32:16). Christ's Epistle (His
	believing members converted by Paul) is better still: it is written
	not merely with the finger, but with the "Spirit
	of the living God"; it is not the "ministration of
	death" as the law, but of the "living Spirit"
	that "giveth life" (Exodus 32:16- :). 
	not in—not on
	tables (tablets) of stone, as the ten commandments were written (Exodus 32:16- :). 
	in fleshy tables of the
	heart—ALL the best
	manuscripts read, "On [your] hearts [which are] tables of
	flesh." Once your hearts were spiritually what the tables of the
	law were physically, tables of stone, but God has "taken away
	the stony heart out of your flesh, given you a heart of flesh"
	(fleshy, not fleshly, that is, carnal; hence it is
	written, "out of your flesh" that is, your carnal
	nature), Ezekiel 11:19; Ezekiel 36:26.
	Compare 2 Corinthians 3:2, "As ye are
	our Epistle written in our hearts," so Christ has in the first
	instance made you "His Epistle written with the Spirit in (on)
	your hearts." I bear on my heart, as a testimony to all men,
	that which Christ has by His Spirit written in your heart [ALFORD].
	(Compare Proverbs 3:3; Proverbs 7:3;
	Jeremiah 31:31-34). This passage
	is quoted by PALEY [Horæ
	Paulinæ] as illustrating one peculiarity of Paul's style,
	namely, his going off at a word into a parenthetic reflection:
	here it is on the word "Epistle." So "savor," Jeremiah 31:31-24.31.34- :.