 11 .] The description is interrupted by a  denunciation on them for having followed in the steps of former ungodly men .  Woe unto them (see reff.: from which it appears that Bengel is not exact, when he says “uno hoc loco unus hic apostolus  uœ intentat”):  for they went by the way (the dat. is probably one of rule, cf. reff., rather than one following ἐν understood. The aorists ἐπορεύθησαν , &c. are probably proleptic, as looking back on their course; as those in John 17:0 , ἐγώ σε ἐδόξασα ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς , &c. In an English  version we are almost compelled to render these by our perfect, “they have gone,” &c.)  of Cain (how? Œc. answers, διὰ τῆς ἀδελφοκτονίας , by perverse doctrine, or even according to his interpretation of ἐνυπνιαζόμενοι above, by abusing that process by which men might be born into the world: Grot., “Cain fratri vitam caducam ademit: illi fratribus adimunt æternam.” But these explanations do not seem to fit the context, where as yet no indication has been given of their  seducing power. Some (e. g. Lyra) have answered, from their persecuting the believers: but neither does this appear in the context: others, as De Wette and Arnaud, have regarded Cain simply as a representative of all bad men: Schneckenb., as that of all unbelievers, according to Jewish tradition (“respondit Cain … non est judicium nec judex, nec est aliud sæculum,” &c. Targ. Hieros. ad Genesis 4:7 : see also Philo, “quod deterius,” &c., p. 155 ff., De agriculturâ, p. 169. De Wette). The most probable answer is that given by Stier and Huther, that the point of comparison is that selfish regard and envy which was at the root of Cain’s sin),  and rushed after ( ἐκχυθῆναι , “effundi in,” as Tacitus, Ann. i. 54, “Mæcenate effuso in amorem Bathylli:” so Polyb. xxxii. 11. 4, οἱ δ ʼ εἰς ἑταίρας ἐξεκέχυντο : Clem. Al . Strom. ii. 20 (118), p. 491 P., εἰς ἡδονὴν ἐκχυθέντες )  the error of Balaam for reward (such, and not as De Wette, “they were poured out (ruined) by the deception of the reward of Balaam.” So also Horneius, “deceptione mercedis qua deceptus fuit Balaam, effusi sunt.” For this latter disturbs the parallelism of the three clauses, in which we have τῇ ὁδῷ τοῦ Κάϊν , … τῇ πλάνῃ τοῦ Βαλαάμ , … τῇ ἀντιλογίᾳ τοῦ Κορέ , strictly correlative. De Wette’s reasons for his view are (1) that the ordinary rendering severs the purpose, “for reward,” from the error of Balaam: 2) that “for reward” does not suit ἐξεχύθησαν , which implies recklessness. But it may be answered to 1) that this by no means follows: for under the μισθοῦ may be well implied, “as Balaam did,” or we may take μισθοῦ ἐξεχύθησαν as one idea, “they ran-greedily-for reward,” and τῇ πλάνῃ τοῦ B., after the error of Baalam, i. e. as Balaam did in his πλάνη : and to 2) that although ἐκχυθῆναι implies recklessness, yet it may be reckless pursuit of some favourite end, as in “alienari in libidinem.” As to the construction, πλάνῃ may be either the normal dative, as τῇ ὁδῷ above, or the dat. of direction, = εἰς τὴν πλάνην : and the gen. μισθοῦ is the usual one of price, as in 1 Corinthians 7:23 , τιμῆς ἠγοράσθητε ),  and perished in the gainsaying ( ἀντιλογίᾳ , either the instrumental dative, “perished by gainsaying, as Korah,” or the dative with ἐν implied, “perished in,” i. e. as included in, “the gainsaying of Korah,” i. e. when we read of Korah and his company perishing in their gainsaying, we read of these too, as perishing after the same example. This latter seems preferable, on account of the parallelism with the other two clauses)  of Korah (the common point being, that they like Korah despised God’s ordinances.  ἀντιλογίᾳ , because Korah and his company ἀντέλεγον τῷ Μωϋσεῖ . See reff., and cf. τὸ ὕδωρ τῆς ἀντιλογίας , Numbers 20:13 (24), Numbers 27:14 ; Deuteronomy 32:51 ; Deuteronomy 33:8 ; Psalms 80:7 ; Psa 105:32 ).