 16 .]  Continuation of the description , especially with reference to the concluding words of the prophecy.  These are murmurers (  γογγυσταί , οἱ ὑπ ʼ ὀδόντα καὶ ἀπαῤῥησιάστως τῷ δυσαρεστουμένῳ ἐπιμεμφόμενοι , Œc. Murmurers against what, is not said: probably, against the appointments and ordinances of God. Bengel’s distinction between the two words, “  γογγ . adversus homines,  μεμψ . contra Deum,” does not appear justified)  dissatisfied with their lot (see on μεμψιμοιρία , Theophrastus, Char. xvii. Wetst. and Elsner give examples: e. g. Philo, Vit. Mos. i. 33, vol. ii. p. 109, of the Israelites, καὶ πάλιν ἤρξαντο μεμψιμοιρεῖν : Lucian, Sacrif. 1, τῆς Ἀρτέμιδος μεμψιμοιρούσης , ὅτι μὴ παρειλήφθη πρὸς τὴν θυσίαν ὑπὸ τοῦ Οἰνεως . μεμψίμοιρος is interpreted by Hesych., μεμφόμενος τὸ ἀγαθόν · ἢ φιλεγκλήμων , ἢ φιλαίτιος ,  walking according to their lusts (this is closely connected with the preceding: “quia sibi in pravis cupiditatibus indulgent, simul difficiles sunt ac morosi, ut illis nunquam satisfiat: hinc fit ut semper obmurmurent ac querantur.” Calv.),  and their mouth speaking great swelling things (see 2Pe 2:18 note),  admiring (the nom. part. belongs not to εἰσίν above, but to αὐτῶν immediately preceding, being joined to it by a loose construction: see reff.) (  men’s )  persons (see reff.: holding mere outward appearances, dignities, of men in admiration. In ref. Gen., it is God who says to Abraham, ἰδού , ἐθαύμασά σου τὸ πρόσωπον , “Behold, I have regarded (E. V., accepted) thee.” In the ref. Levit., the word imports as here, and is parallel with οὐ λήψῃ πρόσωπον in the preceding clause. The Commentators quote Lysias, Orat. 31, οὔτε γὰρ τοὺς πονηροὺς ὑπερορᾷ , οὔτε τοὺς ἀγαθοὺς θαυμάζει , ἀλλ ʼ ἶσον ἑαυτὸν παρέχει πᾶσιν , said of  death . In 4 Kings 5:1 Naaman is said to have been a man τεθαυμασμενος τεοσώπῳ , of high dignity)  for the sake of advantage (“magniloquentiam taxat, quod se ipsos fastuose jactent: sed interea ostendit illiberali esse ingenio, quia serviliter se dimittant.” Calv. Compare μισθοῦ , Jud 1:11 ).