 20 23 .] CONCLUDING EXHORTATION TO THE READERS: and a) Jude 1:20-21 ,  as to their own spiritual life .  But ye, beloved (resumed from Jud 1:17 ),  building up yourselves (  ἑαυτους , not = ἀλλήλους , but as in Php 2:12 )  upon (as a foundation)  your most holy faith (the  faith here is the foundation; viz., the  fides quæ creditur , the object of faith. Bullinger (in Huther), “Vestræ fidei superstruentes vos ipsos.” Elsewhere in Scripture, CHRIST is this foundation, see 1 Corinthians 3:11 ; which in fact comes to the same, for He is the Author and Finisher of our Faith, the α and ω ),  praying in the Holy Spirit (as the means of thus building yourselves up. The expression προσεύχεσθαι ἐν πν . ἁγίῳ is not found elsewhere, but is in strict analogy with Scripture usage: cf. λαλεῖν ἐν πν . ἁγ ., also Romans 8:26 , Ephesians 6:18 . Some, e. g. Luther, join ἐν πν . ἁγ . with what has gone before, and this is approved by De Wette: but surely προσευχόμενοι would not be left thus standing alone. De W. cites Œc. for this arrangement, but it is very doubtful whether he adopts it: ὑμεῖς δὲ τῇ ἁγιωτάτῃ ὑμῶν πίστει ἐποικοδομοῦντες , ἤτοι ἑαυτοὺς ἀνακτώμενοι ἐν πνεύματι ἁγίῳ , τουτέστι , κατὰ τὴν τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος διδασκαλίαν τὰς ἑαυτῶν ἀθροίσεις ἐν ταῖς προσευχαῖς ὑμῶν ποιούμενοι : where it is evident that there should be a period at ἀνακτώμενοι , and that προσευχόμενοι has been omitted, or perhaps was never expressed, after ἁγίῳ ; at any rate the latter sentence is an explanation of ἐν πν . ἁγ . προσευχόυενοι ),  keep yourselves (aor. of the one great life-long act to be accomplished by the ἐποικοδομεῖν and προσεύχεσθαι )  in the love of God (within that region of peculiar love wherewith God regards all who are built up on the faith and sustained by prayer: θεοῦ being a subjective gen., “God’s love,” not objective, as Grot., Semler, Bengel, Vorstius, Arnaud, al. The expression is very like μείνατε ἐν τῇ ἀγάπῃ τῇ ἐμῇ , John 15:9 , where κἀγὼ ὑμᾶς ἠγάπησα preceding fixes the meaning to be Christ’s love to them),  looking for (present part. as in Titus 2:13 , where see note. It is to be the habit of the life, as those other pres. participles, ἐποικ . and προσευχόμενοι )  the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ (viz. that which He will shew at His coming, τὸν εἰς τὴν ἐσχάτην ἡμέραν τῆς αἰωνίου ζωῆς βραβευόμενον ὑμῖν , Œc.: cf. Titus 2:13 . Huther remarks that ἔλεος , more usually predicated of the Father, is in the addresses of the Pastoral Epistles, and of 2 John, attributed to the Father and Son jointly)  unto eternal life (these words may be joined with ἔλεος , that mercy, whose issue shall be eternal life; or with προσδεχόμενοι , as the issue and aim of the expectation; or with τηρήσατε , as the final terminus of that watchful guarding. Perhaps the right choice between the three will be to combine the two last: for προσδεχόμενοι is subordinate and conditional to τηρήσατε : “keep yourselves … in expectation of … unto”). The direct and studied reference to the Blessed Trinity will not escape the reader.
	b) Jude 1:22-23 .]  Exhortation as to their conduct with reference to the persons previously stigmatized in the Epistle.  And some indeed convict when contending with you (or, “when separating from you.” These appear to be the only two meanings which suit the context. Œc. takes the latter, but apparently including in it the idea of hostile disputation: κακείνους δέ , εἰ μὲν ἀποδιίστανται ὑμῶν , τοῦτο γὰρ σημαίνει τὸ διακρἰνεσθαι … where the Latin renders, “illos vero si vobis resistant, nam id significat  disceptantes …” The Vulg. renders it passive: “et hos quidem arguite judicatos,” which can hardly stand as giving the pres. part. διακρινομένους , and representing rather διακρίνοντες . De Wette, following Bengel, understands it “doubting” “convince,” “persuade in the right direction,” “those who doubt.” But thus the sense of ἐλέγχετε is missed, which is never simply to convince, but always carries the punitive idea with it, to  convict . Grot. gives another meaning, “reprehendite eos qui se cæteris præferunt.” Huther goes with Œc. The sense of  contending , for διακρίνομαι , is found both in classical writers and in the N. T., e. g. Acts 11:2 , and our Epistle, Jude 1:9 (which is no slight indication of the meaning here): cf. διακρίνεσθαι μάχῃ Herod. ix. 58, ὅπλοις κ . λόγοις Demosth. p. 163. 15 al. in Palm and Rost’s Lex.
	This is the first class: that of those who oppose themselves, who must be convicted and down-argued. According to the rec. οὓς μὲν ἐλεεῖτε διακρινόμενοι , the rendering will be, as E. V., “  of some have compassion, making a difference ,” viz. between them and the others);  but others save (pres., attempt to save; not σώσατε , which would imply that you had the power, and must do it effectually),  snatching them from the fire (the same passage in the prophets, Zechariah 3:1-3 , which has already been before St. Jude’s mind in Jude 1:9 , again furnishes him with the material of this figure. There we read οὐκ ἰδοὺ τοῦτο ὡς δαλὸς ἐξεσπασμένος ἐκ πυρός ; cf. also ref. Amos. Notice too the repetition of διακρίνεσθαι in close connexion, which speaks not a little for the sense above given to it. The πῦρ is most probably not future eternal fire, as Œc. ἐκ τοῦ ἠπειλημένου αὐτοῖς πυρός : but the present hell into which their corrupt doctrines and practices have cast them, not however without reference to its ending in fire eternal. This is the second class; as Œc., εἰ δὲ πρὸς ἴασιν ἀφορῶσι : or rather perhaps, any over whom your influence extends, as younger members of the Church, &c., whom you can thus rescue by snatching them out of the fire of temptation and peril),  and others compassionate (the form ἐλεάω , for the usual ἐλεέω is also found in reff. Rom.; and ἐλλογὰν Romans 5:13 (in [1] ( [2] )), Philemon 1:18 . See Winer, edn. 6, § 15)  in fear (on what account, is shewn by what follows. Œc. rightly, except that (see below) he identifies this class with the last, προσλαμβάνεσθε δὲ μετὰ τοῦ ἐλεεῖν αὐτοὺς καὶ μετὰ φόβου , περισκεπτόμενοι μή πως ἡ πρόσληψις τούτων , ἀμελῶς ὑμῶν τὰ πρὸς αὐτοὺς διακειμένων , λύμης ὑμῖν γενηται αἰτία . This is the third class: consisting of those whom not falling in the way of so as personally to convict, nor having influence over so as to rescue, the believers could only compassionate (and on occasion given, lovingly help) as led away hopelessly to their ruin: but in shewing such compassion, they were to maintain a wholesome fear of their deadly error, for fear they themselves should become defiled by it. It may suffice to repudiate at once Bengel’s interpretation of ἐν φόβῳ , “clementer, metu duntaxat incusso.” The following clause is epexegetical of ἐν φόβῳ ),  hating (not, “seeing that ye hate,” as De W., nor “though ye hate,” as Jachm.: the pres. part. simply falls under and expands the verbal clause ἐλεᾶτε - ἐν - φόβῳ , thus forming part of the command)  even the (or, “  their ,” cf. Œc. below)  garment which has received defilement from the flesh ( τῷ ἐλέῳ τῷ πρὸς αὐτοὺς συνεπέσθω τὸ μῖσος τὸ πρὸς τὰ μιαρὰ αὐτῶν ἔργα , μισούντων ὑμῶν καὶ βδελυσσομένων , καὶ τὸν ἀπὸ τῆς σαρκὸς αὐτῶν ἐσπιλωμένον , ἤτοι μεμιασμένον αὐτῶν χιτῶνα , ὡς τῇ πρὸς τὴν αὐτῶν σάρκα προσψαύσει , καὶ αὐτοῦ βδελυροῦ χρηματίζοντος . And so Bengel, understanding χιτῶνα of their garment, which you are to loathe, and to be afraid even to touch: “  tunica est totius vitæ habitus exterior, qua ab aliis attingimur.” This  may be, but it is more probable that the χιτών is literal, and the saying a proverbial one hating not merely fleshly pollution itself, but even the traces and outskirts of it; even that, be it what it may, which has its mark and stain upon it. On the sense, see Rev 3:4 ).
	 [1] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [2] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .