 7 .]  Third Example : Sodom and Gomorrha. See 2 Peter 2:6 .  How (not “even as,” E. V.; “  wie auch ,” Luther; “  similiter ,” Semler, al.; nor does it answer to ὁμοίως below, Jude 1:8 ; but is dependent on ὑπομνῆσαι ὑμᾶς βούλομαι above, Jude 1:5 , and parallel with ὅτι there: see reff.)  Sodom and Gomorrha ,  and the cities about them, following fornication (the  ἐκ , as in ref. Gen., seems to mean, to its fulfilment, thoroughly, without reserve: hardly, as Stier, “beyond the bounds of nature,” though this was so)  in like manner to these (  τούτοις , the angels above mentioned. The manner was similar, because the angels committed fornication with another race than themselves, thus also ἀπελθόντες ὀπίσω σαρκὸς ἑτέρας . So τούτοις is taken by Lud.-Cappell., Herder, Augusti, Schneckenberger, achmann, De Wette, Arnaud, Stier, Huther. But other references have been attempted. Beza, Est., Calov., Krebs, understand the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrha to be intended: justifying the construction by such passages as Jos. Vita 69, τίνα τρόπον ἐξαρπάσω τὴν Τιβεριάδα τῆς Γαλιλαίων ὀργῆς ἔτι  αὐτούς . But it is fatal to this, that thus we should have αἱ περὶ αὐτάς πόλεις as the main subject of the sentence, and Sodom and Gomorrha only mentioned by the way. Again, Bengel and Rosenmüller have referred  τούτοις to the ungodly men who are being treated of. But this is still less likely, seeing that they come in Jude 1:8 , evidently after a series of examples in which they have not been mentioned, with ὁμοίως μέντοι  καὶ οὗτοι )  and going away after (see reff. Here more stress is to be laid on the ἀπ -, than in those passages: it was a departure from the appointed course of nature and seeking after that which was unnatural)  other flesh (than that appointed by God for the fulfilment of natural desire: as Œc., σάρκα ἑτέραν τὴν ἄῤῥενα φύτιν λέγει ὡς μὴ πρὸς συνουσίαν γενέσεως συντελοῦσαν : the sin of Sodom was afterwards common in the most enlightened nations of antiquity, see Romans 1:27 . But in all probability Sodom and Gomorrha must be numbered among those whose sin went farther even than this: cf. Leviticus 18:22-25 . See 2Pe 2:10 ),  are set forth as an example (reff. Libanius says of Troy, κεῖται παράδειγμα δυστυχίας ),  undergoing (to this day, pres. part. alluding to the natural phænomena of the Dead sea: cf. Wis 10:7 , οἷς ἐπὶ μαρτύριον τῆς πονηρίας καπνιζομένη καθέστηκε χέρσος : and Winer’s Realw., “  Todtes Meer ”)  the just punishment of eternal fire (  δίκην ὑπέχειν , see reff.: especially 2 Macc., and add δίκην τίειν , 2 Thessalonians 1:9 .  πυρὸς αἰωνίου is far better joined with δίκην than with δεῖγμα as Huther: and the sense is, undergoing the punishment, as may even now be seen, of eternal fire of that fire; which shall never be quenched).