 6 .]  Second example : the rebel angels. See 2 Peter 2:4 .  And (  τε shews that the connexion with the foregoing is very close)  angels, those which kept not (  ἀγγέλους is probably indefinite, and then the art.  τούς designates those angels who are meant.  μή stands with the part., not οὐ , because μὴ τηρήσαντας conveys not only the fact (cf. οἱ οὐκ ἠλεημένοι , 1Pe 2:10 ), but the reason for what follows: cf. Matthew 18:25 , μὴ ἔχοντος αὐτοῦ ἀποδοῦναι ἐκέλευσεν αὐτὸν ὁ κύριος αὐτοῦ πραθῆναι . See Acts 21:34 : Luke 12:47 , ἐκεῖνος ὁ δοῦλος ὁ … μὴ ἑτοιάσας μηδὲ ποιήσας … δαρήσεται πολλάς : and many more examples in Winer, edn. 6, § 55, where the whole matter is ably discussed)  their own dignity (some interpret  ἀρχή , as E. V., “  first estate ,” “original condition.” So Erasm., Calv., and Beza, “originem:” Stier, “  ihren ersten Grund :” some again, “  the government which was over them ,” viz. that of God: so Ollarius in a dissertation on this passage, cited in Wolf, h. l. But seeing that angels are often in the N. T. called ἀρχαί , as they also were among the Jews, and that such meaning answers best to the parallel clause which follows, there can be little doubt that the Vulg. “principatum” is right. The fact alluded to is probably that which is obscurely indicated in Genesis 6:2 . See prolegomena),  but left their own (proper) habitation (viz. heaven),  He hath kept (  τετήρηκεν , in sharp contrast to τοὺς μὴ τηρήσαντας . The word is a pregnant one, ἔδησεν or περιέθηκεν , τοῦ τηρῆσαι )  against the judgment of the great day (at the end of the world)  in eternal bonds under darkness (cf. Hes., Theogon. 729, ἔνθα θεοὶ Τιτῆνες ὑπὸ ζόφον ἠεοόεντα | κεκρύφαται βουλῇσι Διὸς νεφεληγερέταο | χώρῳ ἐν εὐρώεντι . The  ὑπό in both cases is to be accounted for by the darkness being considered as brooding over them, and they under it. There is apparently a difference which we cannot explain, between the description of the rebel angels here and in ║ 2 Pet., and that in the rest of the N. T., where the devil and his angels are said to be powers of the air, and to go about tempting men. But perhaps we are wrong in absolutely identifying the evil spirits mentioned here with those spoken of in 2 Pet.).