 5 .]  First example : unbelieving Israel in the wilderness. Cf. Heb 3:16 to Hebrews 4:5 .  But (solemn contrast to the conduct just mentioned)  I wish to remind you, knowing as ye do (better here than “although ye know,” on account of ἅπαξ . “Causa, cur admoneat duntaxat; quia jam sciant, semelque cognitum habeant.” Bengel. The E. V. is doubly wrong: in rendering εἰδώς as an aor. part., “  though ye … knew ,” and in giving to ἅπαξ the signification of “  olim ,” “  once ”)  once for all (i. e. having once for all received the knowledge of)  all things (all that refers to that of which I am speaking: the τοῦτο of the rec. was a good explanation: but πάντα is more forcible, and carries with it a latent admonition, to apply other examples for yourselves),  that Jesus (critical principles seem to require this remarkable reading. It is not entirely precedented by 1 Corinthians 10:4 : for there St. Paul uses not the personal human name, but χριστός , in which there is no such difficulty. The only account to be given seems, that the Person designated by the two names being the same, they became sometimes convertibly used in popular exhortation. On the fact see Exodus 14:19 ; Exodus 23:20 ; Exodus 23:23 ; Exodus 32:2 ; Isaiah 63:9 , where however note the remarkable rendering of the LXX),  having saved the people (perhaps “  a people :” λαός is not one of those words of which we can say that they are constantly found without the art. where yet their meaning is definite: cf. Acts 15:14 , Romans 10:21 , 2 Corinthians 6:16 , Hebrews 8:10 , 1 Peter 2:9 (10). But we are never safe in strictness on this point in these later Epistles; and especially when an objective case is thus thrown forward into emphasis, which emphasis often does the work of the definite article)  out of the land of Egypt, secondly (not as E. V., “afterward:” still less with Grot., Wolf, “  ex contrario :” but it indicates a second deed of the Lord, His first-mentioned having been the deliverance out of Egypt. By this τὸ δεύτερον the former aor. part. is marked as being not contemporary with but antecedent to the aor. verb following)  destroyed them that believed not (viz. by forbidding their entrance into the land of promise (cf. Heb 3:18 ), and slaying them in the wilderness. This example is not mentioned in 2 Peter 2:0 , but instead of it, the judgment of the flood).