 24, 25 .] CONCLUDING DOXOLOGY, conceived in terms referring to their state of danger and necessity of divine upholding.  But (the  δέ , as in Romans 16:25 , closes off all other considerations and sums up all in this one. It is not at all given by the “now” of the E. V., which conveys a strictly temporal idea to the hearer)  to Him that is able (exactly thus, Rom 16:25 )  to keep them (the occurrence of αὐτούς (which is almost beyond doubt the true reading instead of ὑμᾶς or ἡμᾶς ) can only be accounted for by the supposition that St. Jude writes here, as of all to whom he has been addressing himself, in the third person, as if he was praying to God for them. His reason for not using ὑμᾶς may have been his desire to include also in the term those who might be convicted, rescued from the fire, and compassionated, as well as his more immediate reader. But it is hardly likely, in the solemn close of his Epistle, that he should mean by αὐτούς , those  only )  without falling (see reff.: and for πταίειν , James 2:10 ; Jam 3:2 ),  and to set (  them )  before-the-presence-of His glory (which will be revealed when the Son of man shall come, ἐν τῇ δόξῃ αὐτοῦ καὶ τοῦ πατρὸς καὶ τῶν ἁγίων ἀγγέλων , Luke 9:26 , in the ἐπιφανείᾳ τῆς δόξης τοῦ μεγάλου θεοῦ καὶ σωτῆρος ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , Tit 2:13 )  blameless (see reff. and 1Th 3:13 )  in (element, in which they will be found)  great-rejoicing (tripudiatio, the exuberance of triumphant joy: see reff.: and the verb in 1Pe 1:6 reff.),  to the only God our Saviour through Jesus Christ our Lord (on the union of θεός with σωτήρ , see Prolegg. to Vol. III., ch. 7 § 1, 34. Observe the qualification here),  be (on account of πρὸ παντὸς τοῦ αἰῶνος below, De Wette insists as necessary that ἐστιν , as 1 Peter 4:11 , not ἔστω , is here to be supplied. But ἔστω might be in the Writer’s mind, while the precise periods embraced by it might rather be left to the fulness of his devout spirit than marked by strict precision)  glory, majesty, might, and power, before all time (before the whole age, scil. of the world. Thus we have eternity “a parte ante”),  and now (thus, time present),  and to all the ages (thus, eternity “a parte post”).  Amen (the ordinary conclusion of a doxology: cf. Romans 1:25 , 1 Peter 4:11 (and 2 Peter 3:18 , where as here it stands at the end of the Epistle)).
	 ΑΠΟΚΑΛΥΨΙΣ ΙΩΑΝΝΟΥ