 8 ff.]  Designation of these evil men as following the same destructive courses .  In like manner nevertheless (i. e. notwithstanding these warning examples)  these men in their dreams (  ἐνυπνιαζόμενοι , by the construction of the sentence which proceeds with σάρκα μὲν μιαίνουσιν , κυρ . δὲ ἀθετοῦσιν , δόξας δὲ βλασφημοῦσιν , must belong not to the first member alone, but to all. This necessity precludes the whole class of meanings represented by “de somniis, in quibus corpus polluitur:” explained by Calv., “est metaphorica loquutio, qua significat, ipsos esse tam hebetes, ut sine ulla verecundia ad omnem turpitudinem se prostituant.” And those being got rid of, and  a fortiori the interpretation given by Bretschneider, “falsis oraculis decepti, vel falsa oracula edentes” (see reff.), we have but this left, that the word should represent that state of dreaming in the sleep of sin, out of which men are so often called on to awake to righteousness and the light of Christ: so (in Huther) Horneius: “tam insipientes sunt, ut quasi lethargo quodam sopiti non tantum impure vivant, sed etiam quæ non norunt tam audacter vituperent:” and Arnaud (ibid.), “cependant ceux-ci, comme des gens qui agissent sans savoir ce qu’ils font, comme s’ils rêvaient, pour ainsi dire, …”)  defile the flesh (by unnatural lusts, as in Jude 1:7 .  σάρκα , generally: not, ‘  their flesh,’ but our common flesh),  and despise lordship and speak evil of glories (of what sort? Calv., Beza, Grot., Leclerc, Wolf, Semler, al., understand those of kings and Cæsars: Œc. alt., Hammond, include ecclesiastical rulers and Apostles. But to neither of these meanings can Jud 1:9-10 be fitted: and it becomes therefore necessary to understand the words of celestial lordships and dignities: probably in both cases those of the holy angels. So De Wette: similarly Huther, but understanding  κυριότητα of God, and δόξας of the angels. It is against this last view, that κυριότης , in reff. Eph. Col., is used of angels. Philo de Monarchia i. 6, vol. ii. p. 218, says, δόξαν δὲ σὴν εἶναι νομίζω τάς σε δορυφορούσας δυνάμεις . The ancient interpretations were curious, as given in the Oxf. Catena: τὴν μίαν κυριότητα κ . δόξαν τῆς ἁγίας Τριάδος βλασφημοῦντες : again, δόξας ἐκάλεσε τὰς δύο διαθήκας , ὡς ὁ Παῦλος φησίν , εἰ γὰρ ἡ διακονία τῆς κατακρίσεως δόξα , πολλῷ μᾶλλον ἡ διακονία τῆς δικαιοσύνης δόξα : and so Severus also, and Œc. alt.):