 12, 13 .]  Continuation of the description of these ungodly men . 2Pe 2:13 ; 2 Peter 2:17 .  These are the rocks (  which are )  in your love-feasts (  σπιλάδες , αἱ ὕφαλοι πέτραι , Etymol. M. Cf. Od. ε . 405, ἀλλ ʼ ἀκταὶ προβλῆτες ἔσαν , σπιλάδες τε πάγοι τε . See Wetst.’s note. They are the rocks on which the ἀγάπαι stand in danger of being wrecked. Cf. Œc., as quoted under ἀφόβως below. It is unnecessary and unjustifiable to attempt to give σπιλάδες any other meaning, as some have done on account of the σπίλοι in 2 Peter 2:13 . But each passage must stand on its own ground. See Palm and Rost’s Lex., who however give at the end, = ὁ σπῖλος , citing for it this passage and Orph. lith. 614. Arnaud endeavours to unite both meanings, resting on the etymology as given by Eustathius (see Wetst.), αἱ παράλιαι πέτραι , παρὰ τὸ σπιλοῦσθαι τῇ ἄχνῃ : “les rochers continuellement battus par les flots de la mer et souillés par son écume:” but this is too far-fetched. See by all means the illustrations in Wetstein. As regards the construction, we might, as Stier, take οἱ with σπιλάδες : but the above may, supplying ὄντες , seem better, as ἀγγέλους τοὺς μὴ τηρήσαντας κ . τ . λ . Jude 1:6 .  ἀγάπαις has generally been taken to refer to the love-feasts: the ἐν ταῖς ἐκκλησίαις γινόμεναι τράπεζαι , ὡς καὶ Παῦλός φησιν ἐν τῇ πρὸς Κορινθίους , ἃς καὶ ἀγάπας ἐκάλουν : see Winer, Realw. Erasmus would keep the ordinary meaning, “in dilectionibus vestris,” or “inter charitates vestras.” But the συνευωχούμενοι seems to fix the other. St. Peter has for ἀγάπαις , ἀπάταις , as at present read: see note there),  feasting with you (  συνευωχούμενοι  may mean, feasting together: but the ὑμῶν preceding makes the other more probable)  fearlessly (  ἀφόβως is joined with ἐαυτ ποιμ . by Erasm., Beza (and consequently E. V.), Tricæus, and Stier: but thus συνευωχ . would be left standing very badly alone. “Cum timore colenda sunt convivia sacra. Convivari per se nihil vitii habet. Ideo ‘sine timore’ huic verbo annecti debet,” Bengel. Œc. mentions both arrangements: ἀφόβως συνευωχούμενοι , τουτέστιν , μηδένα φόβον τοῖς συνευωχουμένοις προσδοκῶσιν , ἐξαίφνης ὥσπερ σπιλάδες ἐπάγοντες αὐτοῖς τὸν ὄλεθρον τῶν ψυχῶν . ἤ , πρὸς τὸ ποιμαίνοντες , τό , ἀφόβως ἑαυτοὺς συντάττοντες ),  pasturing their own selves (using the ἀγάπαι not for their legitimate purpose, the realization of the unity of Christians by social union, but for  their own purposes, the enjoyment of their lusts, and the furtherance of their schemes. See Ezekiel 34:1 ff.; the parallelism of which has however been too far pressed here by Grot. (“se dum saginent, gregem negligunt”), Bengel (“non gregem”); which thought does not seem to be in the context, but merely that they feed and pasture  themselves in the ἀγάπαι , having no regard to the Shepherd (or shepherds) set over them. Erasmus widens the sense too far “suo ductu et arbitrio viventes”):  clouds without water (see on πηγαὶ ἄνυδροι in 2 Peter 2:17 . Water is  expected from clouds),  carried out of course by winds (here  our text is the more concise: St. Peter having, as above, the πηγαὶ ἄνυδροι separate from the ὀμίχλαι ὑπὸ λαίλαπος ἐλαυνόμεναι . Cf. Proverbs 25:14 , Heb. or E. V.  παραφερόμεναι , borne by, or as above, borne out of their course, hither and thither),  autumn trees (i. e. as trees are in the late autumn ( ἄκαρπα explaining it, see below): as Bengel, “arbor tali specie qualis est autumno extremo, sine (foliis et?) pomis:” not “  frugiperdæ ,” as Grot.: and so Erasm., Beza (and consequently E. V.), al., and Stier, for which meaning there is no authority in usage: as neither for Schöttgen’s, “quæ non nisi auctumno senescenti fructus ferunt immaturos et nulli usui futures”),  without fruit (as trees at the time above mentioned; but there is nothing in this word to indicate whether fruit has been on them or not),  twice dead (it is not easy to explain these words in reference to trees. For that we must do so, and not, as Beza, Est., Bengel, Schneckenb., al., desert the similitude, and understand it of spiritual death twice inflicted, or of death here and in eternity (so Grot.: “neque hic bonum habebunt exitum, neque in sæculo altero”), must be evident by ἐκριζωθέντα following. Œc. says, τὰ φθινοπωρινὰ δένδρα δὶς ἀποθνήσκοντα , ἐν τε τῇ τοῦ καρποῦ αὐτῶν ἀποβολῇ , καὶ ἐν τῇ τῶν φύλλων ἀποῤῥοῇ : and then he explains the first particular as above: Beza, Rosenm. explain δίς by “plane,” “prorsus,” which meaning, though denied by Bretschneider, De Wette illustrates by “bis dat qui cito dat:” and Horace’s “pro quo bis patior mori.” But the most likely reference of the word is to the double death in a tree, which is not only as it seems to the eye in common with other trees, in the apparent death of winter, but really dead, dead to appearance, and dead in reality. Huther comes near this, but does not quite reach it, when he says, “not only without fruit, but dead and dried up:” but this would not be two deaths; whereas the other is),  rooted out (the various descriptive clauses form a climax: not only without leaves and fruit, but dead: not only dead, but plucked up and thrown aside. “Tous ces mots sont des métaphores énergiques pour montrer le néant de ces impures, la légèreté de leur conduite, la stérilité de leur foi et l’absence de leurs bonnes mœurs.” Arnaud):