 3 .]  Beloved (only found in the beginning of an Epistle here and 3Jn 1:2 ),  giving all diligence (the phrase σπουδὴν ποιεῖσθαι is only found here: see reff. and especially 2 Pet. It implies more than mere earnest desire: a man’s σπουδή is necessarily action as well as wish: “giving diligence” seems the exact idea required. The participle like other present participles is contemporaneous with the verb to which it is attached, viz. ἔσχον : cf. John 9:25 , τυφλὸς ὢν ἄρτι βλέπω , “I, who am a blind man, now see”)  to write to you concerning the common salvation (thus must the sentence be arranged, and not as Lachm. al., with a comma after ὑμῖν , and joining περὶ τῆς κοινῆς ἡμ . σωτηρίας to the next clause. For thus the participial clause loses all its weight and propriety, and indeed the apodosis likewise: see below.
	 περὶ τῆς κοινῆς σωτηρίας may mean, concerning the fact of our common salvation, brought in by Christ; or concerning the means of attaining that salvation, i. e. the doctrines and practices by which it is to be forwarded. Perhaps the latter is here preferable. On the idea conveyed by κοινῆς , see reff. and 2Pe 1:1 ),  I found it necessary (reff.: not, as E. V., “  it was needful :” nor as Grot., “  nihil potius habui, quam ut :” the ἀνάγκη was not part of the σπουδὴν ποιεῖσθαι , but supervened on it owing to the circumstance to be mentioned in the next verse)  to write to you (notice the aoriat here following the present before: I was most desirous to write (present expressing merely the general fact of writing) …: but I found it necessary to write (at once; to have written, “epistolam absolvere”) …)  exhorting (  you )  to contend earnestly for (cf. συναθλοῦντες τῇ πίστει , Philippians 1:27 : the ἐπί gives the purpose for which the fight is to be waged)  the faith (objective here: the sum of that which Christians believe: “fides  quæ creditur” not “  quâ creditur ”)  once for all (“particula valde urgens: nulla alia dabitur fides,” Bengel. This is obscured by the “  once ” of the E. V., which represents merely “  olim ,” not “  semel ”)  delivered to the saints (i. e. Christians: believers, as in reff. The meaning then of this verse is, that St. Jude, who was before earnestly desirous to write to the Church universal concerning the salvation which is common to us all (De Wette, after Sherlock, supposes that St. Jude was actually engaged on a larger and more general Epistle, and was compelled to break it off by the necessity mentioned. This may have been so: but we can hardly gather so much from the words), found urgent occasion at once to do so, respecting not merely nor directly that common salvation, but one point, viz. the keeping inviolate the faith once for all delivered to God’s people. And the reason of this necessity which arose, now follows).