 ΙΟΥΔΑ
	 1, 2 .]  Address and greeting .  Judas, a servant of Jesus Christ (  δοῦλος , probably not here in the wider sense, in which all Christians are servants of Christ but in that special sense in which those were bound to His service who were employed in the preaching and disseminating of His word: see reff.: on the absence of any official designation, see prolegomena),  and brother of James (see prolegomena),  to the called (in the sense of St. Paul (reff.); effectually drawn by God the Father to the knowledge of the Gospel),  beloved in (the phrase is one not elsewhere found, and difficult of interpretation. The meanings “  by ,” = ὑπό , cf. 2 Thessalonians 2:13 , ἀδελφοὶ ἠγαπημένοι ὑπὸ κυρίου ; “  on account of ,” understanding ἠγαπημένοις “beloved  by the writer ,” are hardly admissible. The only allowable sense of ἐν seems to be, “in the case of,” “as regards,” understanding of course that the love of the Father is spoken of)  God the Father (St. Paul ordinarily in his greetings adds ἡμῶν to θεὸς πατήρ , cf. Romans 1:7 ; 1 Corinthians 1:3 ; 2 Corinthians 1:2 ; Ephesians 1:2 ; Philippians 1:2 ; Colossians 1:2 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:1 ; Philemon 1:3 . But he has θεὸς πατήρ absolutely in the following places; Galatians 1:1-2 ; Ephesians 6:23 ; Php 2:11 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:2 ; 1Ti 1:2 ; 2 Timothy 1:2 ; Titus 1:4 ; as also St. Peter, 1 Peter 1:2 ; 2 Peter 1:17 ; St. John, 2 John 1:3 . It became more frequently used, as might be expected, in the later days of the canon)  and kept for Jesus Christ (reserved, to be His at the day of His coming: the dative is commodi. If the question be asked, kept by whom? the answer must be, by God the Father: though constructionally the words are not connected. Observe the perfect participles, giving the signification “from of old and still”):  mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied (all three proceeding from God: God’s mercy, God’s peace, God’s love: see Jude 1:21 . In the somewhat similar passage, Ephesians 6:23 , εἰρήνη τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς κ . ἀγάπη μετὰ πίστεως ἀπὸ θεοῦ πατρὸς κ . κυρίου Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ , the love and faith are clearly, in themselves, the gift of God: mutual love or love towards God. But the other seems better here).