 4 .]  For there crept in (aor. explaining the arising of the occasion of his thus writing. On  παρεισέδυσαν , cf. 2 Peter 2:1 , παρεισάξουσιν , and note: also Galatians 2:4 , where we have both παρεισάκτους and παρεισῆλθον . Secrecy, and lack of legitimate introduction, are plainly expressed in this word. “  Crept in ,” viz. into the Christian church)  certain men (“le mot τινες a quelque chose de méprisant, comme dans Galatians 2:12 ,” Arnaud. And so, it may be observed, has ἄνθρωποι in this connexion) (  men )  who have been of old written down in prophecy (by the  οἱ προγεγρ . these persons are again brought up and designated; q. d. “namely, the very men who &c.”  προγεγραμμένοι has been variously interpreted. The prep. may have two meanings: either 1) that of time, previously, as in Galatians 3:1 , where the various meanings of the word are discussed: 2) that of publicity, “  openly ,” taking “to proscribe” as the sense of the word. But it is against this latter that this sense is never found in the N. T.: and that “proscribed,” if taken in its usual meaning, will not admit of εἰς τοῦτο τὸ κρῖμα following it. Wolf’s interpretation, “qui dudum sunt accusati in hoc judicium,” lets go the proscripti altogether. There can be little doubt then that we must keep ποό to its temporal sense, as indeed do Œc., Thl. (but understanding the reference wrongly: προγεγραμμένους δὲ αὐτοὺς έλεγεν , ὅτι καὶ Πέτρος κ . Παῦλος περὶ αὐτῶν εἴρηκεν ὅτι ἐν ἐσχάτοις χρόνοις ἐλεύσονται πλάνοι τοιοῦτοι κ . τ . λ .), and most recent Commentators. Then, thus understanding it, to what time and fact are we to refer such designation of them? Clearly not to God’s eternal purpose, in this place, from the term πάλαι , which, as Huther remarks, is never used of that purpose, but points to some fact  in time . And if so, then the previous writing down of these men can only point to the O. T. prophecies. In that case there is a pregnant construction, “of old fore-described (and destined).” What special description of them is intended, might be difficult to say were it not for the quotation below Jud 1:14 from the prophecy of Enoch. The warnings contained in the historical facts adduced below may also be meant. It may be observed that the ultra-prædestinarians, Beza and Calvin, find, as we might expect, strong defence for their views in their interpretation here. Beza indeed gathers from this place, “hoc æternum Dei decretum non modo eventum rerum, sed ipsas imprimis personas comprehendere”)  to this judgment (what judgment, or rather result of judgment? “Judicium de quo mox,” as Bengel: the sentence which St. Jude has in his mind and proceeds in the following verses to unfold.  κρῖμα , as so often, though not = κατάκριμα , yet gets the condemnatory meaning from the character of the context),  impious, changing the grace of our God (  τὴν χάριτα , the gift of grace, the state of salvation, in which our sins are forgiven us and we are admitted into the freedom of God’s children.  ἡμῶν , drawing closer the bond of God’s true children to Him and one another, and thus producing greater abhorrence of those who have thus abused His grace)  into lasciviousness (the words  might mean, “perverting the grace of our God in the direction of, for the purpose of, lasciviousness:” and so De Wette: but it is against this, that μετατιθέναι in reff. is simply to change, not to pervert: and we therefore must understand, as above, that they made the state of grace and Christian liberty into a state of (moral) licence and wantonness: as Bed e , “hanc ejus gratiam transferunt in luxuriam, qui nunc tanto licentius et liberius peccant quanto minus se vident asperitate legis de admissis facinoribus examinari”),  and denying (see 2Pe 2:1 )  the only Master, and our Lord Jesus Christ (in 2 Peter 2:1 δεσπότης is used of Christ: which circumstance might tempt us to refer it to Christ here also: and so Bengel, De Wette, Stier, al. But probability seems to weigh on the other side. In every other place (see reff.) δεσπότης is used of God: 2) the addition μόνος seems to bind this meaning to it here: (3) the denial of God by disobeying His law is the epexegetic resumption of the last clause: 4) δεσπότης κ . κύριον are hardly distinguishable if both applied to Christ. For these reasons I must agree with Huther, in regarding the rejected θεόν as having been, although a gloss, yet a true one: and would remind the reader, once for all, that the reference of any term in the parallel place of 2 Peter is no guide for us here, seeing that it belongs to the extremely curious relation of the two passages to each other, that many common terms are used in different senses).