 19 .]  Last characteristics of these men .  These are they that separate (or “are separating,” viz. from the Church, having no real sympathy with the spirit of the Gospel, The act. verb does not seem to require ἑαυτούς to be supplied: that draw lines of distinction, by walking after their own desires, not in the path of the Church’s obedience, thus separating both themselves from you, and you from themselves),  sensual (we have do English word for ψυχικός ; and our biblical psychology is, by this defect, entirely at fault. The ψυχή is the centre of the personal being, the “I” of each individual. It is in each man bound to the spirit, man’s higher part. and to the body, man’s lower part; drawn upwards by the one, downwards by the other. He who gives himself up to the lower appetites, is σαρκικός : he who by communion of his πνεῦμα with God’s Spirit is employed in the higher aims of his being, is πνευματικός . He who rests midway, thinking only of self and self’s interests, whether animal or intellectual, is the ψυχικός , the selfish man, the man in whom the spirit is sunk and degraded into subordination to the subordinate ψυχή . In the lack of any adeqaute word, I have retained the “sensual” of the E. V., though the impression which it gives is a wrong one: “selfish” would be as bad, for the ψυχικός may be an amiable and generous man: “animal” would be worse: “intellectual,” worse still. If the word were not so ill-looking in our language, “psychic” would be a great gain),  not having the spirit (  πνεῦμα , see above, not directly the Holy Spirit of God (the absence of the art. would be no objection to this: see reff. and Romans 8:14 , 1 Corinthians 2:4 , al. fr.), but the higher spiritual life of man’s spirit in communion with the Holy Spirit. These men have not indeed ceased to have πνεῦμα , as a part of their own tripartite nature: but they have ceased to possess it in any worthy sense: it is degraded beneath and under the power of the ψυχή , the personal life, so as to have no real vitality of its own. See Delitzsch, Biblische Psychologie, v. Abschn. § 2, “  das neue Geiftesleben :” and Beck, Umriss der biblischen Seelenlehre, p. 35 ff.).