 20 .]  Explanation of the REASON WHY  all creation waits, &c .  For the creation was made subject to vanity (= הֶבֶל , Psalms 39:6 , where ( Psa 38:5 ) the LXX have τὰ σύμπαντα ματαιότης . So also Ecc 1:2 and passim. It signifies the  instability, liability to change and decay , of all created things)  not willingly (‘cum a corruptione naturâ res omnes abhorreant.’ Bucer in Thol.)  but on aocount of (  διὰ is so far from losing its proper meaning by the reference of τὸν ὑποτάξαντα to God, as Jowett affirms, that it gains its strictest and most proper meaning by that reference: see Romans 8:11 . He is the occasion, and His glory the end, of creation’s corruptibility)  Him who made it subject (i.e. God.
	Chrys., al., interpret it of  Adam , who was the  occasion of its being subjected; and at first sight the acc. with διὰ seems to favour this. But I very much doubt whether this view can be borne out. For (1) does not ὑποτάξαντα imply a  conscious act of intentional subjugation , and not merely an  unconscious occasioning of the subjugation? Thus we have it said of God, ref. 1 Cor., πάντα γὰρ  ὑπέταξεν ὑπὸ τοὺς πόδας αὐτοῦ · ὅταν δὲ κ . τ . λ ., δῆλον ὅτι ἐκτὸς  τοῦ ὑποτάξαντος αὐτῷ τὰ πάντα . And (2) the acc. aft. διὰ is in reality no reason against this. He is speaking of the  originating cause of this subjection, not of the efficient means of it. He says that creation was not subjected ἑκοῦσα , i.e. διὰ τὸ θέλημα ἑαυτῆς , but διὰ τὸν ὑποτάξαντα . At the same time such a way of putting it, removing as it were the supreme will of God to a wider distance from corruption and vanity, and making it not so much the worker as the occasion of it, as well as this indefinite mention of Him, is quite intelligible on the ground of that reverential awe which so entirely characterizes the mind and writings of the Apostle. If the  occasion pointed at by ὑποτάξαι be required, I should hardly fix it at the Fall of man, but at his  creation , in the eternal counsels, when he was made  capable of falling, liable to change .
	The explanation of  ὁ ὑποτάξας as meaning ‘  the devil ’ (Locke, al.), hardly needs refutation. See Matthew 10:28 , and note),  in (‘  on condition of,’ ‘in a state of ,’ see ch. Romans 4:18 , and note on ἐφ ʼ ᾧ , ch. Rom 5:12 )  hope ( ἐπ ʼ ἐλπίδι must not be joined with ὑποτάξαντα , because then the ἐλπίς becomes  the hope of the ὑποτάξας , but with ὑπετάγη , being the hope of the ὑποταγεῖσα ),  because (not ‘  that ,’ after ἐλπίς , for then it is not likely that αὐτὴ ἡ κτίσις would be so emphatically repeated: the clause now announces a  new fact , and thus the emphasis is accounted for. To suppose the whole clause  subjective to the  ἐλπίς , would be to attribute to the yearnings of creation,  intelligence and  rationality , consciousness of itself and of God)  the creation itself also (not only we, the sons of God, but even creation itself)  shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption (its subjection to the law of decay, see Heb 2:15 )  into (pregnant:  shall be delivered from, &c., and admitted into )  the freedom of the glory (beware of the fatal  hendiadys : ‘the freedom of the glory’ is not in any sense = ‘the glorious freedom;’ in the latter, ‘glorious’ is merely an epithet whereby the freedom is characterized, as in ‘His rest shall be glorious:’ in the former the freedom is described as consisting in, belonging to, being one component part of, the glorified state of the children of God: and thus the thought is carried up to the state to which the freedom belongs)  of the children ( τέκνων and not νἱῶν here, perhaps as embracing God’s universal family of creation, admitted, each in their share, to a place in incorruptibility and glory).