 17 .] CONSEQUENCES  of our being children of God .  But (announcing a result, as in a mathematical proposition: ‘but, if &c.’)  if children, also heirs (which is the universal rule of mankind: but κληρ . here must not be carried to the extent of the idea of  heir in all directions: it is merely the  one side of  inheriting by promise , which is here brought out: the word referring back probably to ch. Romans 4:13-14 , the promise to Abraham);  heirs of God (as our Father, giving the inheritance to us),  and joint-heirs with Christ (whom God has made κληρονόμον πάντων , Hebrews 1:2 .
	Tholuck remarks: “It is by virtue of their substantial unity with the father, that the children come into participation of his possession. The Roman law regarded them as continuators of his personality. The  dignity of the inheritance is shewn (1) by its being God’s possession, (2) by its being the possession of the Firstborn of God. By the Roman law, the share of the firstborn was no greater than that of the other children, and the N. T. sets forth this view, making the redeemed equal to Christ ( Rom 8:29 ), and Christ’s possessions, theirs; 1 Corinthians 3:21-23 ; John 17:22 . In the  joint-heirship we must not bring out this point, that Christ is  the rightful Heir , who shares His inheritance with the other children of God: it is as adoptive children that they get the inheritance, and Christ is so far only the means of it, as He gives them power to become sons of God, Joh 1:12 ”);  if at least (see above on Rom 8:9 )  we are suffering with Him, that we may also be glorified with Him : i.e. ‘if (provided that) we are found in that course of participation in Christ’s sufferings, whose aim and end, as that of His sufferings, is to be glorified as He was, and with Him.’ But the εἴπερ does not regard the  subjective aim, q. d. ‘If at least our aim in suffering is, to be glorified,’ but the  fact of our being partakers of that course of sufferings with Him,  whose aim is, wherever it is found , to be glorified with Him.
	Thol. takes the ἵνα as dependent on συγκληρ . (= ὥστε ), and εἴπερ συνπ . as quasiparenthetical; but the above seems to me more satisfactory.
	The connexion of  suffering with Christ , and  being glorified with Him is elsewhere insisted on, see 2 Timothy 2:11 ; 1 Peter 4:13 ; 1 Peter 5:1 .
	This last clause serves as a transition to Romans 8:18-30 , in which the Apostle treats of  the complete and glorious triumph of God’s elect, through sufferings and by hope, and the blessed renovation of all things in and by their glorification .