 23 .] The text here is in inextricable confusion (see var. read.), but the sense very little affected.  But (moreover)  not only (the creation), but even ourselves, possessing (not ‘  who possess ,’ οἱ ἔχοντες , but ‘  though we possess ’)  the firstfruit of the Spirit (i.e. the indwelling and influences of the Holy Spirit  here , as an earnest of the full harvest of His complete possession of us, πνεῦμα and σάρξ and ψυχή , hereafter. That this is the meaning, seems evident from the analogy of St. Paul’s imagery regarding the Holy Spirit: he treats of Him as an  earnest and  pledge given to us, Eph 1:14 ; 2 Corinthians 1:22 ; 2 Corinthians 5:5 , and of His full work in us as the efficient means of our glorification hereafter, Romans 8:11 ; 2 Corinthians 3:18 . Various other renderings are, (1) ‘  the first outpouring of the Spirit ,’ in point of time, Wetst., Reiche, Kölln., Mey., al., which would be irrelevant: (2) ‘  the highest gifts of the Spirit ,’ as the Schmidts, al.
	The gen. πν . may be partitive or subjective: the firstfruit of the Spirit, which  Spirit is the harvest, or the firstfruit of the Spirit, which the  Spirit gives : or even in apposition, the firstfruit of the Spirit, i.e. which  consists in (the gift of)  the Spirit . I prefer the first, from analogy the Spirit being generally spoken of as  given , not as  giving , and God as the Giver),  even we ourselves (repeated for emphasis, and ἡμεῖς inserted to involve himself and his fellow-workers in the general description of the last clause. Some (Wolf, Kölln.) have imagined  the Apostles only to be spoken of: some, that the Apostles are meant in one place, and all Christians in the other)  groan within ourselves, awaiting the fulness of [  the (or,]  our )  adoption ( ἀπεκδ ., as above, Romans 8:19 , but even more strongly here, ‘  wait out ,’ ‘wait for the end of.’ Our adoption is  come already , Romans 8:15 , so that we do not wait for  it , but for the  full manifestation of it , in our bodies being rescued from the bondage of corruption and sin. This which in Gr. is expressed by the verb, in Eng. must be joined to the substantive. The omission of the art. before νἱοθ . is probably on account of its preceding its verb, νἱοθ . ἀπεκδ . = ἀπεκδ . τὴν υἱοθ ., for emphasis’ sake)  the redemption (in apposition with νἱοθ ., or rather with the fulness of sense implied in νἱοθ . ἀπεκδ ., q. d. ‘  expecting that full and perfect adoption which shall consist in …’)  of our body (not, ‘  rescue from our body ,’ as Erasm., Le Clerc, Reiche, Fritz., al., which though allowable in grammar, see Hebrews 9:15 , is inconsistent with the doctrine of the change of the vile and mortal into the glorious and immortal body, Philippians 3:21 ; 2 Corinthians 5:2-4 , but the (entire) redemption, rescue, -of the body from corruption and sin).