 11. ]  But ( δέ takes up and continues the supposition in the former verse, with which in fact this is nearly identical, but with the important additional particular (whence the contrast) τοῦ ἐγείραντ . κ . τ . λ .)  if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead, dwells in you (which Spirit is therefore  powerful over death , and besides renders you  partakers of Christ’s Resurrection ),  He who raised Christ from the dead (the personal name, JESUS, reminds more of the historic fact of the resurrection of the one Person, Jesus: the official and mystical name, CHRIST, of the body of which He is the Head and we the members, all raised with Him by the one Spirit dwelling in all)  shall quicken (not merely ἐγερεῖ , because it is not merely the resurrection of the body which is in the Apostle’s view, see below)  even your mortal bodies (the higher phase of the ζωοποιεῖν takes place in the  spirit of man: and even of that which takes place in the body, there are two branches one, the quickening it from being a tool of unrighteousness unto death (eternal), the other, the quickening it out of death (physical) to be a new and glorified body. And the καί joined with θνητά , here, signifies that the working of the πνεῦμα ζωοποιοῦν shall not stop at the purely spiritual resurrection, nor at that of the body from dead works to serve the living God, but shall extend  even to the building up the spiritual body in the future new and glorious life ),  on account of His Spirit which dwells in you .
	Here the reading is much disputed, whether it be the acc. or gen.: see var. readd. The gen. can only mean, ‘by means of,’ ‘through,’ His Spirit, &c.: this the acc. may include, (it not being specified  for what reason it is on the Spirit’s account, and leaving it open to be His presence, or His agency,) but must be rendered ‘on account of,’ or ‘because of,’ His Spirit, &c. Thus  both may imply that the Holy Spirit is the  agent in the quickening; but the gen. cannot bear the other meaning, that God will quicken, &c.  because of His Spirit, &c. Hence in dispute with the  Macedonians , who denied the divinity of the Holy Spirit, the gen. reading was important to the orthodox, as expressing agency, and that alone. But it seems pretty clear that the variation was older than the time of this heresy, and, however it may then have been appealed to, its origin cannot be assigned to any falsification by either of the then disputant parties. As to how far the Holy Spirit is the  direct Agent in the resurrection of the body, see note on πνεῦμα ζωοπ ., 1 Corinthians 15:45 , and on 2 Corinthians 5:5 . Here, His direct agency cannot be in any way surprising, for it is  the whole process of bringing from death to life, extending even to the mortal body , which is here spoken of and unquestionably, ‘the Lord and Giver of Life’ is the agent throughout in this quickening. ‘Non de ultima resurrectione, quæ momento fiet, habetur sermo, sed de continua Spiritus operatione, quæ reliquias carnis paullatim mortificans, cœlestem vitam in nobis instaurat.’ Calv.: but perhaps ‘non  solum de ultima resurrectione,’ would have been more correct: for it certainly is  one thing spoken of.