 16 .]  And this confidence is grounded on the testimony of the Spirit itself . So Chrys.: οὐ γὰρ ἀπὸ τῆς φωνῆς ἰσχυρίζομαι μόνον , φησίν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀπὸ τῆς αἰτίας ἀφ ʼ ἧς ἡ φωνὴ τίκτεται .… οὐ γὰρ τοῦ χαρίσματός ἐστιν ἡ φωνὴ μόνον , ἀλλὰ καὶ τοῦ δόντος τὴν δωρεὰν παρακλήτου · αὐτὸς γὰρ ἡμᾶς οὗτος ἐδίδαξε διὰ τοῦ χαρίσματος οὕτω φθέγγεσθαι . Hom. xiv. p. 579. This verse being without copula, is best understood to refer to the same as the preceding, and the assertion to concern the same fact as the last verb, κράζομεν , as if it were αὐτοῦ τοῦ πν . συμμαρτυροῦντος κ . τ . λ ., grounding that fact on an act of the indwelling Spirit Himself. See again Galatians 4:6 .
	 The Spirit itself (not ‘  idem Spiritus ,’ as Erasm. and similarly Luth., Reiche, al.: the αὐτό expresses the independence, and at the same time, as coming from God, the preciousness and importance of the testimony)  testifies to our spirit (see ch. Romans 2:15 , and note: not ‘  una testatur :’ the σύν in composition does not refer to τῷ πν . ἡμ ., but to  agreement in the fact , as in ‘contestari’ ‘confirmare’)  that we are children of God . What is this  witness of the Spirit itself? All have agreed, and indeed this verse is decisive for it, that it is  something separate from, and higher than, all subjective inferences and conclusions . But on the other hand it does  not consist in mere indefinite feeling , but in a  certitude of the Spirit’s presence and work continually asserted within us . It is manifested, as Olsh. beautifully says, in His comforting us, His stirring us up to prayer, His reproof of our sins, His drawing us to works of love, to bear testimony before the world, &c. And he adds, with equal truth, “On this direct testimony of the Holy Ghost rests,  ultimately , all the regenerate man’s conviction respecting Christ and His work. For belief in Scripture itself (he means, in the highest sense of the term ‘belief,’ = ‘  conviction personally applied ’) has its foundation in this experience of the divine nature of the (influencing) Principle which it promises, and which, while the believer is studying it, infuses itself into him.”
	The same Commentator remarks, that this is one of the most decisive passages against the pantheistic view of the identity of the Spirit of God and the spirit of man. However the one may by renovating power be rendered like the other, there still is a specific difference. The spirit of man may  sin ( 2Co 7:1 ), the Spirit of God  cannot , but can only be grieved ( Eph 4:30 ), or quenched ( 1Th 5:19 ), and it is by the infusion of this highest Principle of Holiness, that man becomes ONE SPIRIT with the Lord Himself ( 1Co 6:17 ).
	 τέκνα θεοῦ ] Here, (not νἱοί ) because the testimony respects the very ground and central point of sonship,  likeness to and desire for God : the testimony of the Spirit shewing us by our yearnings after, our confidence in, our regard to God, that we are verily begotten of Him.