 3. ]  For (explanation of Romans 8:2 , shewing the method of this liberation)  that which was not in the power of the law (the construction is a nominativus pendens, as in ref. Heb., in apposition with the following sentence, ὁ θεὸς κ . τ . λ .: so Rückert, Meyer, Fritz., De W., Tholuck: Winer, § 32. 7, makes it an acc. governed by ἐποίησεν understood (stating however in edn. 6, the nom. pendens as an alternative; see also § 63. I. 2. d): Olsh. al., make it an acc. absol. or supply κατά : Camerarius and Beza, διὰ ; but the above seems the simplest.
	 τὸ ἀδύνατ  .   τοῦ νόμου may mean either, ‘  that part of the law which was impossible ,’ ‘could not be obeyed,’ as τὸ γνωστὸν τοῦ θεοῦ , ch. Romans 1:19 ; or, ‘  the inability of the law ’ = ἡ ἀδυναμία τ . ν ., as τὸ χρηστὸν τοῦ θεοῦ , ch. Romans 2:4 ; or, ‘  that which was unable to be done by the law .’ Of these, the first is out of the question, because νόμος must be the subject of ἐν ᾧ ἠσθ . κ . τ . λ .: the second would give the first clause the meaning, ‘  that wherein the inability of the law shewed itself ,’ viz. its powerlessness διὰ τ . σαρκός . The third yields by far the best meaning: see below on διὰ τ . ς .)  in that (this clause gives a reason and explanation of the ἀδύνατον , see however the note on ref. Heb.)  it was weak (the Apostle keeps in mind his defence of the holiness of the law undertaken in ch. 7, and as Chrys. observes, δοκεῖ μὲν διαβάλλειν τὸν νόμον , εἰ δέ τις ἀκριβῶς προσέχοι , καὶ σφόδρα αὐτὸν ἐπαινεῖ … οὐδὲ γὰρ εἶπε τὸ πονηρὸν τοῦ νόμου , ἀλλὰ  τὸ ἀδύνατον  · καὶ πάλιν  ἐν ᾧ ἠσθένει , οὐκ , ἐν ᾧ ἐκακούργει , ἐν ᾧ ἐπεβούλενε . Hom. xiv. p. 563)  through the flesh (i.e. in  having to act through the flesh: not, ‘on account of the flesh,’ i.e. of the hostility, or weakness of the flesh, which would be διὰ τὴν σάρκα . The flesh was the  medium through which the law, being a νόμος ἐντολῆς σαρκίνης , Hebrews 7:16 ,  wrought , and οἱ ἐν σαρκί the  objects on which . So the gen. here is similar to that in 2 Corinthians 2:4 , ἔγραψα ὑμῖν διὰ πολλῶν δακρύων , and 1 Peter 5:12 , δι ʼ ὀλίγων ἔγραψα , indicating the  state in or  medium through which , the action is carried on),  God (did)  sending His own Son (the stress is on ἑαυτοῦ , and the word is pregnant with meaning: His  own , and therefore like Himself, holy and  sinless . This implication should be borne in mind, as the suppressed antithesis to ἁμαρτ ., three times repeated afterwards. Another antithesis may be implied ἑαυτοῦ , and therefore  spiritual , not acting merely through the flesh, though in its likeness, but bringing a higher spiritual life into the manhood)  in the likeness of the flesh of sin (the flesh  whose attribute and character was SIN. The gen. is not = ἁμαρτωλοῦ , but implies far more [not merely the contamination by, but] the belonging to and being possessed by. De Wette observes, ‘The words ἐν ὁμοιώμ . σαρκ . ἁμ . appear almost to border on Docetism; but in reality contain a perfectly true and consistent sentiment. σὰρξ ἁμαρτ . is  flesh (human nature, John 1:14 ; 1 John 4:2 ; Heb 2:14 )  possessed with sin : the Apostle could not then have said  ἐν σαρκὶ ἁμ . without making Christ  partaker of sin : nor could he have said merely ἐν σαρκί , for then the bond between the Manhood of Jesus, and sin, would have been wanting: he says then, ἐν ὁμοιώμ . σαρ . ἁμ ., meaning by that, He had a nature  like sinful human nature , but had not Himself a  sinful nature , compare Hebrews 4:15 ; οὐ γὰρ ἔχομεν ἀρχιερέα μὴ δυνάμενον συνπαθῆσαι ταῖς ἀσθενείαις ἡμῶν , πεπειρασμένον δὲ κατὰ πάντα καθ ʼ ὁμοιότητα χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας . The  likeness must be referred not only to σάρξ , but also to the epithet τῆς ἁμ .: it did not however consist in this, that He took our sins (literally) on Himself, and became Himself sinful (as Reiche), which would not amount to likeness of  nature , but in this, that He was  able to be tempted , i.e. subjected to sensuous incitements, e.g. of  pain , which in other men break out into sin, but in Him did not.’ See Philippians 2:7 , and note.
	σάρξ is not = σῶμα , but as in John 1:14 , the  material , of which man is in the body compounded),  and on account of sin (to be joined with πέμψας , not as Chrys. al. Vulg., with κατέκρινεν : least of all as Luther, “und verdammete die Sünde in Fleisch  durch Sünde .” The ‘  for ,’ or ‘  on account of ,’ sin, is at present  indefinite , and not to be restricted to Christ’s death as a sin-offering, which is not just now the subject. ‘On account of sin’ then, =  to put away sin , as reff. Heb.),  condemned sin in the flesh (not ‘the sin which was in the flesh,’ which would probably (not certainly) have been τὴν ἐν τ . ς ., and which is against the context, in which ἁμ . is throughout an  absolute principle .
	 κατέκρινεν is allusive to κατάκριμα Romans 8:1 . Hence it has been taken to mean that God condemned,  punished , sin in the flesh by the death of Christ: so Orig [50] , Erasm., Calv., Melancthon, Calov., Olsh., al. But that can hardly be the meaning here, for several reasons. 1. The Apostle is not speaking of the removal of the  guilt , but of the  practice of sin, and of the real fulfilment of the law in those who are in Christ. It is this which even in Rom 8:1 is before him, grounding as he does the οὐδὲν κατάκριμα on the δουλεύω νόμῳ θεοῦ on the  new and sanctifying power of the Spirit by Christ , in spite of  the continued subjection of the flesh to the law of sin . 2. The context shews that the weakness of the law was, its having no  sanctifying power; it could arouse sin, but it could not condemn and cast it out. This indeed is the burden of ch. 7. The absence of  justifying power in the law has already been dealt with. 3. The following verse clearly makes the fulfilling the δικαίωμα of the law no matter of mere imputation, but of περιπατεῖν κατὰ πνεῦμα .
	 [50] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	We must then look for the meaning of κατακρίνειν in the  effects and accompaniments of condemnation,  victory over , and  casting out of sin. See, for example, John 12:31 , where κρίσις τοῦ κόσμου τούτου is explained by ὁ ἄρχων τοῦ κόσμου τούτου ἐκβληθήσεται ἔξω , and ib. Romans 16:11 . As early as Irenæus (Hær. iii. 20. 2, p. 214) this was seen to be the sense: ‘ut condemnaret peccatum, et jam quasi condemnatum projiceret illud extra carnem:’ so Chrys., ἐνίκησεν αὐτήν , τὴν δύναμιν αὐτῆς ἐξέλυσε , Œcum. 2, πῶς ἐξῆρε ; κατακρίνας αὐτὴν καὶ δείξας ἁλοῦσαν . πῶς οὖν ἑάλω καὶ ἥττηται ; ἐν τῇ σαρκὶ αὐτοῦ . προσιέναι γὰρ βουληθεῖσα κ . μὴ ἰσχύσασα ἑάλω κ . ἥττηται , and Theophyl. ( τὴν σάρκα ) ἡγίασε κ . ἐστεφάνωσε , κατακρίνας τὴν ἁμαρτίαν ἐν τῇ σαρκὶ προσληφθείσῃ καὶ δείξας ὅτι οὐ φύσει ἁμαρτωλὸς ἡ σάρξ . And so, in modern times, Beza, Vitringa, Bengel, the Schmidts, Rosenm., Meyer, De Wette, Tholuck, Locke, Stuart, al., and mainly Grot., Reiche, and Fritz., who however render it ‘interfecit’ or ‘supplicio affecit,’ and understand the occasion to have been the  Death of Christ , though the condemnation of sin is owing to His sinlessness, not to His sacrifice. I have dwelt at length on this question, as being very important to the right apprehension of the whole chapter, in this part of which  not the justification , but the  sanctification , of Christians is the leading subject. It is a strong confirmation of the above view, that God’s condemnation of sin in the flesh by Christ is stated in Rom 8:3 as the ground of ( Rom 8:2 ) my being freed from  the law of sin and death : because, viz.  Christ’s victory over sin is mine, by my union with Him and participation in His Spirit .
	 ἐν τῇ σαρκί is not ‘  in His flesh ,’ or ‘  by means of His flesh ,’ as Orig [51] , Syr. (Peschito), Beza, Grot., Reiche, Olsh., al., but ‘in  the flesh ,’ which Christ and ourselves have in common),
	 [51] Origen, b. 185, d. 254