 15, 16 .]  Appeal to the CONSCIOUSNESS  of the Christian to confirm the assertion (assumed for the moment that he  is led by God’s Spirit)  that he is a son of God .  For (confirmantis)  ye did not receive (at your becoming Christians)  the spirit of bondage (= ‘the Spirit which ye received was not a spirit of bondage.’ πν . is not  merely a spirit,  a disposition , but evidently refers to the same πν . which afterwards is πν . νἱοθες ., and αὐτὸ τὸ πν . The Apostle seems however in this form of expression, both here and elsewhere, see reff., to have combined the objective Πνεῦμα given to us by God with our own subjective πνεῦμα . In the next verse they are separated) [  leading back (or,]  again [; but the latter word is undesirable, as] it has been imagined here that the πάλιν must refer to a former bestowal of the πνεῦμα δουλείας , and consequently that the reference is to the O. T. dispensation. In this two different sets of Commentators have found difficulties; (1) those, as Chrys., who would hold from John 7:39 , that the Holy Spirit was  absolutely not given under the O. T., and (2) those, as Cocceius, who holding Him to have been given,  deny that His character was πν . δουλείας . But there seems to me to be no occasion to go back for the reference of πάλιν to the O. T. The state of the  natural man is δουλεία : the Holy Spirit given to them, the agent of their birth into, and sustainer of, a new state, was not a πν . δουλείας πάλιν εἰς φ ., a spirit merely to retain them in, or take them back into their old state, viz. a state of  slavery : to  whom , or whether to  different masters , is not here in question, but the  state merely the object of the gift of the Holy Spirit was not to lead them  back into this)  towards fear (  so as to bring about or result in fear, see ch. Romans 6:19 . πάλιν can hardly, as De W., be taken with εἰς φόβ .),  but ye received the Spirit of (the Spirit  whose effect was, see above)  adoption (this stricter meaning, and not that of  mere sonship , is plainly that intended by the Apostle, both here and in reff. So Fritz., Meyer, Olsh., Harless on Ephesians 1:5 , Tholuck: on the other hand Luther, Winer, Rückert, De Wette, al., see on Romans 8:23 . Of course, the  adoption to be a son involves sonship , but not the converse),  in whom (compare ἐν πνεύματι ch. Romans 2:29 , and Romans 8:9 . Luth. and Tholuck, ‘  through , by means of, whom:’ but τὸ πνεῦμα = Him  in whom, not merely Him  by whom, not being merely an external agent, but an indwelling and pervading power)  we cry (the earnest expression of supplicating prayer, see reff. LXX)  Abba, Father (I have said, on ref. Mark, that ὁ πατ . does not appear to be a mere explanation of אַבָּא , but to have been joined to it in one phrase, as a form of address: expressing probably, a corresponding ‘my father,’ אָבִי , in the Heb. expression. Luther, to express the familiarity of Abba, renders ‘  lieber Vater ,’ ‘  dear Father ’). See on the whole, the strictly parallel place, ref. Gal.