 26. ]  Likewise (another help to our endurance, co-ordinate with the last our patience is one help to it, but not the only one)  the Spirit also (the Holy Spirit of God)  helps our weakness (not, helps us  to bear our weakness, as if the weakness were the burden, which the Spirit lifts for and with us, but, helps  our weakness, us who are weak , to bear the burden of Romans 8:23 . And this weakness is not only inability to pray aright, which is only an  example of it, but  general weakness . This has been seen, and the reading consequently altered to the plural, which was at first perhaps a marginal gloss).  For (example of the help above mentioned; the τό binding together the clause, see reff., and here implying ‘exempli gratiâ,’ ‘for  this viz . what to &c.’)  what we should pray as we ought (two things;  what we should pray, the  matter of our prayer; and  how we should pray it, the  form and  manner of our prayer)  we know not: but the Spirit itself (Thol. remarks, αὐτό brings into more prominence the idea of the πνεῦμα , so as to express of what dignity our Intercessor is, an Intercessor who knows best what our wants are)  intercedes ( ὑπέρ here does not intensify the verb, as in ὑπερνικᾷν and the like, and as Œc [53] , Erasm., Luth., Bengel, render it, but implies the  advocacy , ‘convenire aliquem super negotio alterius,’ as Grot., to express which the ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν of the rec. has been inserted)  with groanings which cannot be expressed : i.e. the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in us, knowing our wants better than we, Himself pleads in our prayers, raising us to higher and holier desires than we can express in words, which can only find utterance in sighings and aspirations: see next verse. So De W., Thol., Olsh. Chrys. (Hom, xiv., p. 586) interprets it of the χάρισμα of prayer and adds ὁ γὰρ τοιαύτης καταξιωθεὶς χάριτος , ἑστὼς μετὰ πολλῆς τῆς κατανύξεως , μετὰ πολλῶν τῶν στεναγμῶν τῶν κατὰ διάνοιαν τῷ θεῷ προσπίπτων , τὰ συμφέροντα πᾶσιν ᾔτει : similarly Œc [54] and Theophyl. Calv. understands, that the Spirit suggests to us the proper words of acceptable prayer, which would  otherwise have been unutterable by us : and similarly Beza, Grot.
	 [53] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 [54] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	ἀλαλήτοις may bear three meanings 1,  unspoken : 2,  that does not speak, mute (see LXX, Job 38:14 ; Sir 18:33 compl.): 3,  that cannot be spoken . The analogy of verbals in - τος in the N. T. favours the latter meaning: compare ἀνεκδιήγητος , 2 Corinthians 9:15 , ἄῤῥητος , 2 Corinthians 12:4 , ἀνεκλάλητος , 1 Peter 1:8 (Thol.).
	Macedonius gathered from this verse that the Holy Spirit is  a creature , and  inferior to God , because He  prays to God for us . But as Aug [55] Tract. vi. in Joan. 2, vol. iii. p. 1425, remarks, ‘non Spiritus Sanctus in semetipso apud semetipsum in illa Trinitate gemit, sed  in nobis gemit, quia gemere nos facit.’ No  intercession in heaven is here spoken of, but a  pleading in us by the indwelling Spirit, of a nature above our comprehension and utterance.
	 [55]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430