 19 ff.]  The greatness of this glory is shewn by the fact that ALL CREATION,  now under the bondage of corruption, shall be set free from it by the glorification of the sons of God .  For (proof of this transcendent greatness of the glory, not, as De W., of the certainty of its manifestation, though this secondary thought is perhaps in the background)  the patient expectation (hardly = ἡ σφόδρα προσδοκία , as Chrys., whom Luther and E. V. follow; but better προσδοκία εἰς τὸ τέλος , the ἀπό denoting, as also in ἀπεκδέχεται , that the expectation continues till the time is exhausted, and the event arrives)  of the creation (=  all this world except man , both animate and inanimate: see an account of the exegesis below)  waits for (see above)  the revelation of the sons of God (‘revelatur gloria: et tum revelantur etiam filii Dei.’ Beng.
	νἱῶν , not τέκνων , because their sonship will be complete, and possessed of all its privileges and glories).
	 ἡ κτίσις has been very variously understood. There is a full history of the exegesis in Tholuck. De Wette sums it up thus: “The Creation, i.e. things created, has by many been erroneously taken in an arbitrarily limited sense; e.g. as applying only, I. to  inanimate creation , as Chrys., Theophyl., Calv., Beza, Aret., ‘  mundi machina ,’ Luther, the Schmidts, al., Fritz., ‘  mundi machina, cœli sidera, aer, terra :’ against this are the words οὐχ ἑκοῦσα and συνστενάζει κ . συνωδίνει , implying  life in the κτίσις , for to set these down to mere personification is surely arbitrary: and one can imagine no reason why bestial creation should be excluded. II. to  living creation : (1) to  mankind ; Aug [52] , Turret., all., take it of  men not yet believers : (2) Locke, Lightf., Hammond, Semler, of the  yet unconverted Gentiles : (3) Cramer, Gersdorf, al., of the  yet unconverted Jews : (4) Le Clerc, al., of the  converted Gentiles ; (5) al., of the  converted Jews ; (6) al.,  of all Christians :” “but,” as he proceeds, “against (II.) lies this objection, that if the Apostle had wished to speak of the  enslaving and freeing of mankind , he hardly would have omitted reference to sin as the ground of the one and faith of the other, and the judgment on unbelievers. But on the other hand we must not extend the idea of κτίσις  too wide , as Theodoret, who includes the  angels , Köllner, who understands the  whole Creation , animate and inanimate, rational and irrational, and Olsh., who includes the  unconverted Gentiles : nor make it  too indefinite , as Koppe and Rosenm.: ‘  tota rerum universitas .’ The right explanation is,  all animate and inanimate nature as distinguished from mankind : so Irenæus, Grot., Calov., Wolf, Rückert, Reiche, al., Meyer, Neander, Schneckenburger, Thol.” The idea of the renovation and glorification of all nature at the revelation of the glory of our returned Saviour, will need no apology nor seem strange to the readers of this commentary, nor to the students of the following, and many other passages of the prophetic word: Isaiah 11:6 ff; Isaiah 65:17 ff.; Revelation 21:0 ; 2 Peter 3:13 ; Acts 3:21 .
	 [52]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430