 29, 30 .] The Apostle now goes backward from κλητοῖς , to explain  how this CALLING  came about . It sprung from God’s  fore-knowledge , co-ordinate with His  fore-determination of certain persons (to be) conformed to the image of His Son, that Christ might be exalted as the Head of the great Family of God. These persons, thus foreknown and predetermined, He, in the course of His Providence actually, but in His eternal decree implicitly, called, bringing them through justification to glory; and all this is spoken of as  past , because  to Him who sees the end from the beginning, past, present, and future ARE NOT, but ALL IS ACCOMPLISHED WHEN DETERMINED.
	 Because whom He foreknew (but in what sense? This has been much disputed: the Pelagian view, ‘  eos quos prœsciverat credituros ,’ is taken by Orig [59] , Chrys., Œc [60] , Theophyl., Augustine (prop. 55, in Ep. ad Rom. vol. iii. p. 2076), Ambr [61] , Erasm. in paraphrase, Calov., Reiche, Meyer, Neander, and others; the sense of  fore-loved , by Erasm. in commentary, Grotius, Estius, the Schmidts, &c.: that of  fore-decreed , by Thol. edn. 1, and Stuart, which however Thol. in subsequent editions suspects to be ungrammatical without some infinitive following, and prefers a sense combining foreknowledge and recognition-as-His: that of  elected, adopted as His sons , by Calvin, ‘Dei autem præcognitio, cujus hic Paulus meminit, non nuda est præscientia, ut stulte fingunt quidam imperiti, sed adoptio qua filios suos ab improbis semper discrevit,’ Rückert, De Wette, al. That this latter is  implied , is certain: but I prefer taking the word in the ordinary sense of  foreknew , especially as it is guarded from being a ‘nuda præscientia’ by what follows: see below and Gal 4:9 ),  He also fore-ordained (His foreknowledge was not a mere  being previously aware how a series of events would happen: but was co-ordinate with, and inseparable from, His having  pre-ordained all things)  conformed (i.e. to be conformed)  to the image of His Son (the dat. and gen. are both found after words like σύμμορφος ; compare σύμφυτος , ch. Romans 6:5 .
	 [59] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [60] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 [61]  Ambrose, Bp. of Milan , A.D. 374 397
	The  image of Christ here spoken of is not His moral purity, nor His sufferings, but as in 1 Corinthians 15:49 , that entire form, of  glorification in body and  sanctification in spirit , of which Christ is the perfect pattern, and all His people shall be partakers. To accomplish this transformation in us is the end,  as regards us , of our election by God; not merely to rescue us from wrath. Compare 1 John 3:2-3 ; Philippians 3:21 ; and on the comprehensive meaning of μορφή , Philippians 2:6-7 , where it expresses both ‘the form of  God ’ in which Christ was, and ‘the form of a  servant ’ in which He became incarnate),  that He might (or  may , as Calv., but the reference in the aorist is to the  past decree of God)  be firstborn among many brethren (i.e. that He might be shewn, acknowledged to be, and glorified as THE SON OF GOD, pre-eminent among those who are by adoption through Him the sons of God. This is the further end of our election,  as regards Christ : His glorification in us, as our elder Brother and Head):