 28 .] Having given an example, in  prayer , how the Spirit  helps our weakness , and out of our ignorance and discouragement brings from God an answer of peace, he now extends this to  all things all circumstances by which the Christian finds himself surrounded. These may seem calculated to dash down hope, and surpass patience; but  we know better concerning them .  But (the opposition seems most naturally to apply to Romans 8:22 , the groaning and travailing of all creation)  we know (as a point of the assurance of faith)  that to those who love God (a stronger designation than any yet used for believers)  all things (every event of life, but especially, as the context requires, those which are adverse. To include, with Aug [56] de Corrept. et Grat., c. ix. (24), vol. x. pt. i. p. 930, the  sins of believers in this  πάντα , as making them ‘humiliores et doctiores,’ is manifestly to introduce an element which did not enter into the Apostle’s consideration; for he is here already viewing the believer as  justified by faith, dwelt in by the Spirit, dead to sin)  work together ( συνεργεῖ , absolute, or ἀλλήλοις implied: not, ‘  work together for good with those who love God ,’ ‘loving God’  being a ‘working for good:’ which, though upheld by Thol., seems to me harsh, and inconsistent with the emphatic position of τοῖς ἀγ . τ . θ . Surely also in that case πάντα would have been τὰ πάντα ,  all things , as  one party working , set over against οἱ ἀγαπῶντες τ . θ ., the  other party working : whereas πάντα συνεργεῖ gives rather the sense of all things  co-operating one with another .
	 [56]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	If the reading of [57] [58] be adopted, we should understand either (1) that God causeth all things to work, &c.: taking συνέργει as from συνέργω ,  concludo : or (2) that, as Syr. renders it, “  in every thing He helpeth them for good .” But in this last case, we should require τὰ πάντα )  for (towards, to bring about)  good (their eternal welfare; the fulfilment of the purpose of the ἀγάπη τ . θεοῦ ἡ ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ τ . κυρ . ἡμῶν , Rom 8:39 ),  to those who are called (not only  invited , but effectually called see below)  according to (His) purpose .
	 [57] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [58] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	In this further description the Apostle designates the believers as not merely  loving God , but being  beloved by God . The  divine side of their security from harm is brought out, as combining with and ensuring the other. They are sure that all things work for their good, not only because  they love Him who worketh all things , but also because  He who worketh all things hath loved and chosen them , and carried them through the successive steps of their spiritual life. The  calling here and elsewhere spoken of by the Apostle (compare especially ch. Rom 9:11 ) is the working, in men, of “the everlasting purpose of God whereby before the foundations of the world were laid, He hath decreed by His counsel secret to us, to deliver from curse and damnation those whom He hath chosen in Christ out of mankind, and to bring them by Christ to everlasting salvation.” Art. X. of the Church of England. To specify the various ways in which this calling has been understood, would far exceed the limits of a general commentary. It may suffice to say, that on the one hand, Scripture bears constant testimony to the fact that all believers are chosen and called by God, their whole spiritual life in its origin, progress, and completion, being  from Him : while on the other hand its testimony is no less precise that He willeth all to be saved, and that none shall perish except by  wilful rejection of the truth. So that, on the one side, GOD’S SOVEREIGNTY, on the other, MAN’S FREE WILL, is plainly declared to us.  To receive, believe, and act on both these, is our duty, and our wisdom . They belong, as truths, no less to  natural than to revealed religion: and every one who believes in a God must acknowledge both. But all attempts to  bridge over the gulf between the two are  futile in the present imperfect condition of man. The very reasonings used for this purpose are clothed in language framed on the analogies of this lower world, and wholly inadequate to describe God regarded as He is in Himself. Hence arises confusion, misapprehension of God, and unbelief. I have therefore simply, in this commentary, endeavoured to enter into the full meaning of the sacred text, whenever one or other of these great truths is brought forward; not explaining either of them away on account of possible difficulties arising from the recognition of the other, but recognizing as fully the  elective and predestinating decree of God where it is treated of, as I have done, in other places,  the free will of man . If there be an inconsistency in this course, it is at least one in which the nature of things, the conditions of human thought, and Scripture itself, participate, and from which no Commentator that I have seen, however anxious to avoid it by extreme views one way or the other, has been able to escape. See, for a full treatment of the subject, Tholuck’s Comm. in loc.