− − 1.] In the chapter last going before, Luke declared how Paul and Barnabas took in hand their embassage unto the Gentiles. Furthermore, it might seem to be an unprosperous and unlucky beginning, in that they were not only expelled out of Antioch, but also enforced by the obstinate wickedness of certain to shake off the dust from their feet. But though they had but short entertainment − (1) in one place, yet do they not yield; because they consider that the Lord had called them upon that condition, that they should do their duty though the whole world and Satan did say nay. Therefore, we see that they came not only ready to teach, but also armed to enter conflicts, that they might courageously proceed in publishing the gospel, even through the midst of combats. − And assuredly, that which was once spoken to Jeremiah is common to all the prophets and ministers of God, − “They shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail,” ( Jeremiah 1:19.) − Now, whithersoever they fly, they carry with them the same courage − (2) still; whereby it appeareth that they were not only furnished for one combat, but even for continual warfare; which Luke doth now prosecute. − (3) He saith first, that they came to Iconium, and therewithal he showeth that they sought not there some haven where they might rest quietly; but they entered the synagogue as if they had suffered no hurt at all. − I refer the word Κατα το αυτο , forasmuch as it signifieth among the Grecians, together, or at the same time, rather unto the Jews than unto Paul and Barnabas. Therefore, I interpret it thus, not that they went in both together, but that they followed the multitude at the solemn and appointed time of the meeting, whence we gather that they spake not secretly with a few men, but in a great assembly of people; whereby they declare their boldness and ready desire; they are so far from fearing envy, or avoiding danger. − (4) − That a great multitude believed. As Luke did before show the power of the Spirit in Paul and Barnabas, so now he commandeth another grace of God in that prosperous success which they had. For one only sermon which they made was not without fruit, but it brought forth many children of God, as well of the Jews as of the Gentiles. If one, or two, or a few, had believed, they might have thought that they sped well; but the Lord confirmeth them far better, when as they gather such plentiful fruit of their doctrine even in a short time. For they knew that so many hearts of men were converted to believe, not so much by their voice, as by the power of the Spirit; whereby they might also assure themselves that they themselves were defended by the outstretched hand of God, which did not a little encourage them. − (1) − “ Verum quamvis duciter accepti,” but however harshly they were received. (2) − “ Animi praesentiam,” presence of mind. (3) − “ Quod Lucas nunc prosequitur,” as Luke now relates in detail. (4) − “ Ut invidiam fugitent, aut periculem formident,” from shunning envy, or dreading danger. 