 7.   τῷ ἀνθυπάτῳ ] The Greek term for the Latin ‘  proconsul ,’ the title of the governor of those provinces which were (semblably) left by the emperors to the government of the senate and people. The proconsul was appointed by lot, as in the times of the republic; carried with him the lictors and fasces as a consul: but had no military power, and held office only for a year (Dio Cass. liii. 13). This last restriction was soon relaxed under the emperors, and they were retained five or even more years. The imperial provinces, on the other hand, were governed by a military officer, a Proprætor ( ἀντιστράτηγος ) or Legatus ( πρεσβευτής ) of the Emperor who was girded with the sword, and not revocable unless by the pleasure of the Emperor. The minor districts of the imperial provinces were governed by Procurators ( ἐπίτροποι ). (C. and H. pp. 173 ff.: Dio Cassius, liii. 13, 15: Merivale, Hist. of the Romans under the Empire, ch. 32) The title ἡγεμών , used in the N. T. of the procurator of Judæa, of the legatus of Syria, and of the emperor himself, is a general term for any governor. But we never find the more definite title of ἀνθύπατος assigned in the N. T. to a legatus. Cyprus, as Dio Cassius informs us, liii. 12, was originally an  imperial province, and consequently was governed by a  proprætor or  legatus (so also Strabo, xiv. 685, γέγονε στρατηγικὴ ἐπαρχία καθ ʼ αὑτὴν … ἐγένετο ἐπαρχία ἡ νῆσος , καθάπερ καὶ νῦν ἐστι , στρατηγική ): but immediately after he relates that Augustus ὕστερον τὴν Κύπρον κ . τὴν Γαλατίαν τὴν περὶ Νάρβωνα  τῷ δήμῳ ἀπέδωκεν , αὐτὸς δὲ τὴν Δαλματίαν ἀντέλαβε . And in liv. 4, repeating the same, he adds, καὶ οὕτως ἀνθύπατοι καὶ ἐς ἐκεῖνα τὰ ἔθνη πέμπεσθαι ἤρξαντο . The title of Proconsul is found on Cyprian coins, both in Greek and Latin. (See C. and H. p. 187, who give an inscription (Boeckh, No. 2632) of the reign of Claudius, A.D. 52, mentioning the ἀνθύπατοι , a former and a present one, Julius Cordus and L. Annius Bassus.)
	Nothing more is known of this Sergius Paulus. Another person of the same name is mentioned by Galen, more than a century after this, as a great proficient in philosophy. He was of consular rank, and is probably the Sergius Paulus who was consul with L. Venuleius Apronianus, A.D. 168, in the reign of M. Aurelius. Another S. P. was one of the consules suffecti in A.D. 94: but this could hardly have been the same.