 2.   λειτουργούντων ] The general word for the priestly service among the Jews, to which now had succeeded that of προφῆται and διδάσκαλοι in the Christian church:  ministering is therefore the only word adequate to render it, as E.V. after the Vulg. ‘  ministrantibus Domino :’ more closely to define it is not only impracticable, but is narrowing an expression purposely left general. Chrys. explains it by κηρυττόντων , alii aliter: and the Romanist expositors understand the  sacrifice of the mass to be meant; but in early times the word had no such reference (see reff., and Suicer sub voce).
	 εἶπεν τὸ πν  .   τὸ ἅγ  . ] viz. by one of the prophets present, probably Symeon or Lucius: see above. The announcement being  to the church , and several persons being mentioned, we can hardly, with Meyer, suppose it to have been an inner command merely to some one person, as in the case of Philip, ch. Acts 8:29 .
	 δή gives precision and force to the command, implying that it was for a special purpose, and to be obeyed at the time: see reff.
	 τὸ ἔργον ] Certainly, by Acts 13:4 , we may infer that there had been, or was simultaneously with this command, a divine intimation made to Barnabas and Saul of the nature and direction of this work.  In general ,  it had already been pointed out in the case of Saul, ch. Acts 9:15 ; Acts 22:21 ; Acts 26:17 . It consisted in preaching to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, Ephesians 3:8 . In virtue of the foundation of the Gentile churches being entrusted to them, Saul and Barnabas become after this Apostles, not vice versa; nor is there the least ground for the inference that this was a formal extension of the apostolic office, the pledge of its continuance through the episcopacy to the end of time. The apostolic office terminated with the apostolic times, and by its very nature, admitted not of continuance: the episcopal office, in its ordinary sense, sprung up after the apostolic times (see the remarkable testimonies cited by Gieseler, I. i. p. 115 f. note, from Jerome on Titus 1:5 , vol. vii. p. 694 f., and Aug [63] Epist. lxxxii. ad Hieron. 33, vol. ii. p. 290): and the two are entirely distinct. The confusion of the two belongs to that unsafe and slippery ground in church matters, the only logical refuge from which is in the traditional system of Rome. See the curious and characteristic note in Wordsw., in which he attempts to prove the identity of the two offices: and compare with it the words of Jerome, on Titus 1:5 , p. 695 f., “Episcopi noverint se magis consuetudine quam dispositionis dominicæ veritate presbyteris esse majores, et in commune debere ecclesiam regere.”
	 [63]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430