 9.   ὁ καὶ Παῦλος ] This notice marks the transition from the former part of his history, where he is uniformly called Saul, to the latter and larger portion, where he is without exception known as Paul. I do not regard it as indicative of any change of name at the time of this incident, or  from that time: the evidence which I deduce from it is of a different kind, and not without interest to enquirers into the character and authorship of our history. Hitherto, our Evangelist has been describing events, the truth of which he had ascertained by research and from the narratives of others. But henceforward there is reason to think that the joint memoirs of himself and the great Apostle furnish the material of the book. In those memoirs the Apostle is universally known by the name PAUL, which superseded the other. If this was the first incident at which Luke was present, or the first memoir derived from Paul himself, or, which is plain, however doubtful may be the other alternatives, the commencement of that part of the history which is to narrate the teaching and travels of the Apostle Paul, it would be natural that a note should be made, identifying the two names as belonging to the same person.
	The καί must not be understood as having any reference to  Sergius Paulus , ‘who  also (as well as Sergius) was called Paul.’ Galen (see above) uses the same expression in speaking of his Sergius Paulus: Σέργιός τε , ὁ καὶ Παῦλος .…, and then, a few lines down, calls him ὁ Παῦλος . It signifies that Paulus was a  second name borne by Saul, in conformity with a Jewish practice as old as the captivity (or even as Joseph, see Gen 41:45 ), of adopting a Gentile name. Mr. Howson traces it through the Persian period (see Daniel 1:7 ; Est 2:7 ), the Greek ( 1Ma 12:16 ; 1Ma 16:11 ; 2Ma 4:29 ), and the Roman (Acts 13:1 ; ch. Acts 1:23 ; Acts 18:8 , &c.), and the middle ages, down to modern times. Jerome has conjectured that the name was adopted by Saul  in memory of this event : ‘Diligenter attende, quod hic primum Pauli nomen inceperit. Ut enim Scipio, subjecta Africa, Africani sibi nomen assumpsit, et Metellus, Creta insula subjugata, insigne Cretici suæ familiæ reportavit; et imperatores nunc usque Romani ex subjectis gentibus Adiabenici, Parthici, Sarmatici nuncupantur: ita et Saulus ad prædicationem gentium missus, a primo ecclesiæ spolio Proconsule Sergio Paulo victoriæ suæ tropæa retulit, erexitque vexillum ut Paulus diceretur e Saulo.’ (In Ep. ad Philemon 1:1 , vol. vii. pp. 746 f.) It is strange that any one could be found capable of so utterly mistaking the character of St. Paul, or of producing so unfortunate an analogy to justify the mistake. (I may observe that Wordsw.’s apology, that Jerome does not say that the Apostle  gave himself this name on this account, is distinctly precluded by Jerome’s language, “erexitque vexillum ut Paulus diceretur e Saulo.” This Wordsw., translating the final words “and instead of Saul was called Paul,” has missed seeing. Notice too Augustine’s “  amavit ,” below.) It is yet stranger that Augustine should, in his Confessions (viii. 4, vol. i. p. 753), adopt the same view: ‘Ipse minimus Apostolorum tuorum … ex priore Saulo Paulus vocari amavit, ob tam magnæ insigne victoriæ.’ (Elsewhere Augustine gives another, but not much better reason: ‘Paulus Apostolus, cum Saulus prius vocaretur, non ob aliud, quantum mihi videtur, hoc nomen elegit, nisi ut se ostenderet  parvum , tanquam minimum Apostolorum.’ De Spir. et Lit. c. 7, vol. x. p. 207.) So also Olshausen. A more probable way of accounting for the additional name is pointed out by observing that such names were often alliterative of or allusive to the original Jewish name: as Grotius in his note: ‘  Saulus qui et Paulus : id est, qui, ex quo cum Romanis conversari cœpit, hoc nomine, a suo non abludente, cœpit a Romanis appellari. Sic qui Jesus Judæis, Græcis  Jason (or  Justus , Col 4:11 ): Hillel,  Pollio : Onias,  Menelaus (Jos. Antt. xii. 5. 1): Jakim (= Eliakim),  Alcimus . Apud Romanos, Silas,  Silvanus , ut notavit Hieronymus: Pasides,  Pansa , ut Suetonius in Crassitio: Diocles,  Diocletianus : Biglinitza, soror Justiniani, Romane  Vigilantia .’
	 ἀτενίσας εἰς αὐτόν ] It seems probable that Paul never entirely recovered his sight as before, after the δόξα τοῦ φωτὸς ἐκείνου . We have several apparent allusions to weakness in his sight, or to something which rendered his bodily presence contemptible. In ch. Acts 23:1 , the same expression,  ἀτενίσας τῷ συνεδρίῳ , occurs, and may have some bearing (see note there) on his not recognizing the high priest. See also Galatians 4:13 ; Galatians 4:15 ; Galatians 6:11 , and 2 Corinthians 12:7 ; 2 Corinthians 12:9 , and notes. The traditional notices of his personal appearance (see C. and H. p. 181, note) represent him as having contracted and overhanging eyebrows.
	Whatever the word may imply, it appears like the graphic description of an eye witness, who was  not Paul himself. So also περιάγων ἐζήτει χειραγωγούς , below.