Acts 13:1 .] The  τινες of the rec. has been interpolated, to make it appear that the persons mentioned were not the  only prophets and teachers at Antioch. The enumeration is probably inserted on account of the solemnity of the incident about to be related, that it might be known  who they were , to whom the Holy Spirit entrusted so weighty a commission. That those enumerated were  all then present, is implied by the τε … καί : see ch. Acts 1:13 .
	 προφῆται ] See on ch. Acts 11:27 .
	 διδάσκ  . ] Those who had the χάρισμα διδασκαλίας , see 1 Corinthians 12:28 ; Ephesians 4:11 . They were probably less immediately the organs of the Holy Spirit than the προφῆται , but under His continual guidance in the gradual and progressive work of  teaching the Word (see Neander, Pfl. u. L. p. 58).
	 Συμεὼν ὁ καλ  .   Νίγερ ] Nothing is known of him. From his appellation of Niger, he may have been an African proselyte.
	 Λούκιος ] A Lucius, probably the same person, is mentioned Rom 16:21 as a συγγενής of Paul. There is no reason to suppose him the same with Λουκᾶς (Lucanus), but the contrary; for why should Paul in this case use  two different names? See Colossians 4:14 ; 2 Timothy 4:11 ; Phm 1:24 Wetstein, believing them to be the same, quotes Herodotus, iii. 131, πρῶτοι μὲν Κροτωνιῆται ἰητροὶ ἐλέγοντο ἀνὰ τὴν Ἑλλάδα εἶναι , δεύτεροι δὲ  Κυρηναῖοι , which certainly is curious enough.
	 Μαναήν ] The same name with Menahem ( Μαναήμ or - ην LXX) the king of Israel, 2 Kings 15:14 . A certain Essene, of this name, foretold to Herod the Great, when a boy going to school, that he should be king of the Jews (Jos. Antt. xv. 10. 5). And in consequence, when he came to the throne, he honoured Manaen, and πάντας ἀπ ʼ ἐκείνου τοὺς Ἐσσηνοὺς τιμῶν διετέλει . It is then not improbable that this Manaen may have been a son of that one: but see below. The Herod here meant was Antipas, who with his brother Archelaus (both sons of Herod the Great by Malthace a Samaritan woman, see Matthew 14:1 , note) παρά τινι ἰδιώτῃ τροφὰς εἶχον ἐπὶ Ῥώμης , Antt. xvii. 1. 3. Both were at this time exiles, Antipas at Lyons, Archelaus at Vienne.
	 σύντροφος ] Probably ‘  collactaneus ’ (Vulg.),  foster-brother ; not, ‘  brought up with ,’ for, if he had been  brought up with Antipas, he would  also have been with Archelaus : see above.
	In this case, his mother may have called her infant by the name of the person who had brought the Essenes into favour with Herod, and no  relationship with that person need have existed.
	 Σαῦλος ] mentioned last, perhaps because the  prophets are placed first, and he was  not one , but a teacher: or it may be, that he himself furnished the account. This circumstance, which has been objected to by some as invalidating the accuracy of the account, is in fact an interesting confirmation of it, as being eminently characteristic of him who spoke as in 1 Corinthians 15:9 ; 2 Corinthians 12:6 ; Ephesians 3:8 . See Baumgarten’s striking remarks on this, vol. ii. p. 7 ff. From the arrangement of the copulæ, it would seem as if Barnabas, Symeon, and Lucius were prophets, Manaen and Saul, teachers.