 48.   τεταγμένοι ] The meaning of this word must be determined by the context. The Jews had  judged themselves unworthy of eternal life : the Gentiles,  as many as were disposed to eternal life , believed.  By whom so disposed, is not  here declared: nor need the word be in this place further particularized.  We know, that it is GOD  who worketh in us the will to believe , and that the preparation of the heart is of Him: but to find  in this text pre-ordination to life asserted, is to force both the word and the context to a meaning which they do not contain. The key to the word here is the comparison of ref. 1 Cor.  εἰς διακονίαν τοῖς ἁγίοις  ἔταξαν ἑαυτούς , with ref. Rom. αἱ οὖσαι ( ἐξουσίαι ) ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ  τεταγμέναι εἰσίν : in both of which places the  agents are expressed, whereas here the word is absolute. See also ch. Acts 20:13 . The principal interpretations are: (1) Calvin, &c., who find here  predestination in the strongest sense : ‘orainatio ista nonnisi ad æternum Dei consilium potest referri’ … ‘ridiculum autem cavillum est referre hoc ad credentium affectum, quasi Evangelium receperint qui animis rite dispositi erant.’ So the Vulgate, ‘  præordinati :’ and Aug [74] ‘  destinati : (2) ‘Qui juxta ordinem a Deo institutum dispositi erant’ (Franz, Calov.: but not Bengel (as De W.), who explains it as I have done above): (3) ‘Quibus, dum fidem doctrinæ habebant, certa erat vita beata’ (Morus, Kuinoel): (4) ‘Qui ad vitam æternam se ordinarant’ (Grot., Limborch, Wolf, al.): (5) ‘Quotquot erant dispositi, applicati, i.e. apti facti oratione Pauli ad vitam æt. adipiscendam’ (Bretschneider): (6) taking τετ . militari sensu, ‘Qui de agmine et classe erant sperantium vel contendentium ad v. æ.’ (Mede, and similarly Schöttg.) There are several other renderings, but so forced as to be mere caricatures of exegesis: see Meyer. It may be worth while to protest against all attempts to join ἐπίστευσαν with εἰς ζωὴν αἰώνιον , which usage will not bear. Wordsworth well observes that it would be interesting to enquire what influence such renderings as this of  præordinati in the Vulgate version had on the minds of men like St. Augustine and his followers in the Western Church in treating the great questions of free will, election, reprobation, and final perseverance: and on some writers in the reformed churches who, though rejecting the authority of that version, were yet swayed by it away from the sense of the original here and in ch. Acts 2:47 . The tendency of the Eastern Fathers, who read the original Greek, was, he remarks, in a different direction from that of the Western School.
	 [74]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430