And i. In sharp contrast with the disturber. If I yet preach circumcision [ει περιτομην ετι κηρυσσω] . Commonly explained as an allusion to a charge circulated by the Judaisers that Paul preached or sanctioned the circumcision of Gentile converts in churches outside of Galatia, as, for example, in the case of Timothy, Acts 16:3. Acts 16:8 Acts 16:3 But it is quite unlikely that any such charge was circulated. The Judaisers would not have founded such a charge on an individual case or two, like Timothy's, especially in the face of the notorious fact that Paul, in Jerusalem and Antioch, had contested the demand for the circumcision of Gentile Christians; and Paul 's question, "Why do I suffer persecution?" would have been pertinent only on the assumption that he was charged with habitually. not occasionally, preaching circumcision. Had the Judaisers actually circulated such a charge, Paul would have been compelled to meet it in a far more direct and thorough manner than he does here. He would have been likely to formulate the charge, and to deal incisively with the inconsistency in his preaching which it involved. The course of his thought is as follows : "He that troubleth you by preaching circumcision shall bear his judgment; but I am not a disturber - not your enemy (chapter Galatians 4:16), for I do not preach circumcision; and the proof of this is that I am persecuted. If I preached circumcision, there would be no offense, and therefore no disturbance; for the cross would cease to be an offense, if, in addition to the cross, I preached just what the Judaisers assert, the necessity of circumcision." Yet [επι] . As in the time before my conversion. The second epi is not temporal but logical, as Romans 3:7; Romans 9:19. What further ground is there for persecuting me? Then [αρα] . As a consequence of my preaching circumcision. The offense of the cross [το σκανδαλον του σταυρου] . Comp. 1 Corinthians 1:23. For offense, see on offend, Matthew 5:29. Ceased [κατηργηται] . Lit. been done away or brought to nought. See on verse 4. If Paul had preached circumcision as necessary to salvation, the preaching of the cross would have ceased to be an offense, because, along with the cross, Paul would have preached what the Judaisers demanded, that the Mosaic law should still be binding on Christians. The Judaisers would have accepted the cross with circumcision, but not the cross instead of circumcision. The Judaisers thus exposed themselves to no persecution in accepting Christ. They covered the offense of the cross, and conciliated unbelieving Jews by maintaining that the law was binding upon Christians. See chapter Galatians 6:12.