The detailed development of the argument is now introduced. The point is to show the superiority of the agent of the new dispensation to the agents of the old - the angels and Moses. Christ 's superiority to the angels is first discussed. Being made so much better than the angels [τοσουτω κρειττων γενομενος των αγγελων] . The informal and abrupt introduction of this topic goes to show that the writer was addressing Jewish Christians, who were familiar with the prominent part ascribed to angels in the O. T. economy, especially in the giving of the law. See on Galatians 3:9. For being made, rend. having become; which is to be taken in close connection with sat down, etc., and in contrast with wn being, ver. 3. It is not denied that the Son was essentially and eternally superior to the angels; but his glorification was conditioned upon his fulfillment of the requirements of his human state, and it is this that is emphasized. After having passed through the experience described in Philippians 2:6-8, he sat down on the right hand of the divine majesty as messianic sovereign, and so became or proved to be what in reality he was from eternity, superior to the angels. Tosoutw - osw so much - as. Never used by Paul. Kreittwn better, superior, rare in Paul, and always neuter and adverbial. In Hebrews thirteen times. See also 1 Peter 3:17; 2 Peter 2:21. Often in LXX It does not indicate here moral excellence, but dignity and power. He became superior to the angels, resuming his preincarnate dignity, as he had been, for a brief period, less or lower than the angels (ch. 2 7). The superiority of Messiah to the angels was affirmed in rabbinical writings. He hath by inheritance obtained [κεκληρονομηκεν] . More neatly, as Rev., hath inherited, as a son. See ver. 2, and comp. Romans 8:17. For the verb, see on Acts 13:19, and 1 Peter 1:4. More excellent [διαφορωτερον] . Diaforov only once outside of Hebrews, Romans 12:6. The comparative only in Hebrews. In the sense of more excellent, only in later writers. Its earlier sense is different. The idea of difference is that which radically distinguishes it from kreittwn better. Here it presents the comparative of a comparative conception. The Son's name differs from that of the angels, and is more different for good. Than they [παρ αυτους] . Lit. beside or in comparison with them. Para, indicating comparison, occurs a few times in Luke, as Luke 3:13; Luke 13:2; Luke 18:4. In Hebrews always to mark comparison, except Hebrews 11:11, Hebrews 11:12.