The writer proceeds to establish the superiority of the Son to the angels by O. T. testimony. It is a mode of argument which does not appeal strongly to us. Dr. Bruce suggests that there are evidences that the writer himself developed it perfunctorily and without much interest in it. The seven following quotations are intended to show the surpassing excellence of Christ 's name as set forth in Scripture. The quotations present difficulty in that they appear, in great part, to be used in a sense and with an application different from those which they originally had. All that can be said is, that the writer takes these passages as messianic, and applies them accordingly; and that we must distinguish between the doctrine and the method of argumentation peculiar to the time and people. Certain passages in Paul are open to the same objection, as Galatians 3:16; Galatians 4:22-25. To which [τινι] . Note the author 's characteristic use of the question to express denial. Comp. ver. 14; Hebrews 2:3; Hebrews 3:17; Hebrews 7:11; Hebrews 12:7. First quotation from Psalms 2:7. The Psalm is addressed as a congratulatory ode to a king of Judah, declaring his coming triumph over the surrounding nations, and calling on them to render homage to the God of Israel. The king is called Son of Jahveh, and is said to be "begotten" on the day on which he is publicly recognized as king. Words of the same Psalm are quoted Acts 4:25, and these words Acts 13:33. Thou art my Son. Note the emphatic position of uiJov son. See on ver. 4. In the O. T. son is applied to angels collectively, but never individually. See Psalms 29:1; Psalms 89:6. Similarly, son is applied to the chosen nation, Exodus 4:22; Hosea 11:1, but to no individual of the nation. Have I begotten [γεγεννηκα] . Recognized thee publicly as sovereign; established thee in an official sonship - relation. This official installation appears to have its N. T. counterpart in the resurrection of Christ. In Acts 13:33, this is distinctly asserted; and in Romans 1:4, Paul says that Christ was "powerfully declared" to be the Son of God by the resurrection from the dead. Comp. Colossians 1:18; Revelation 1:5. Revelation 1:1 Revelation 1:68 Second quotation, 2 Samuel 7:14. The reference is to Solomon. David proposes to build a temple. Nathan tells him that this shall be done by Solomon, whom Jahveh will adopt as his son. In 2 Corinthians 6:18, Paul applies the passage to followers of the Messiah, understanding the original as referring to all the spiritual children of David. A father - a son [εις πατεραεις υιον] . Lit. for or as a father - son. This usage of eijv mostly in O. T. citations or established formulas. See Matthew 19:5; Luke 2:34; Acts 19:27; 1 Corinthians 4:3.