50. For they
	all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them,
	and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: It is I; be not afraid—There
	is something in these two little words—given by Matthew, Mark and
	John (Matthew 14:27; Mark 6:50;
	John 6:20) —"It is I,"
	which from the mouth that spake it and the circumstances in which it
	was uttered, passes the power of language to express. Here were they
	in the midst of a raging sea, their little bark the sport of the
	elements, and with just enough of light to descry an object on the
	waters which only aggravated their fears. But Jesus deems it enough
	to dispel all apprehension to let them know that He was there.
	From other lips that "I am" would have merely meant that
	the person speaking was such a one and not another person. That,
	surely, would have done little to calm the fears of men expecting
	every minute, it may be, to go to the bottom. But spoken by One who
	at that moment was "treading upon the waves of the sea,"
	and was about to hush the raging elements with His word, what was it
	but the Voice which cried of old in the ears of Israel, even from the
	days of Moses, "I AM";
	"I, EVEN I, AM
	HE!" Compare John 18:5;
	John 18:6; John 8:58.
	Now, that Word is "made flesh, and dwells among us,"
	uttering itself from beside us in dear familiar tones—"It is
	the Voice of my Beloved!" How far was this apprehended by these
	frightened disciples? There was one, we know, in the boat who
	outstripped all the rest in susceptibility to such sublime appeals.
	It was not the deep-toned writer of the Fourth Gospel, who, though he
	lived to soar beyond all the apostles, was as yet too young for
	prominence, and all unripe. It was Simon Barjonas. Here follows a
	very remarkable and instructive episode, recorded by Matthew alone: 
	
	 Peter
	Ventures to Walk upon the Sea (John 8:58- :). 
	 John 8:58- :: 
	 And
	Peter answered Him, and said, Lord, If it be Thou, bid me come
unto Thee on the water —not "let
	me," but "give me the word of command"—"command,"
	or "order me to come unto Thee upon the waters." 
	 John 8:58- :: 
	 And
	He said, Come —Sublime word, issuing from One
	conscious of power over the raging element, to bid it serve both
	Himself and whomsoever else He pleased! 
	 And
	when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked upon the
water —"waters." 
	 to
	come to Jesus —"It was a bold spirit,"
	says BISHOP HALL,
	"that could wish it; more bold that could act it—not fearing
	either the softness or the roughness of that uncouth passage." 
	 John 8:58- :: 
	 But
	when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid: and beginning
to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me —The
	wind was as boisterous before, but Peter "saw" it
	not, seeing only the power of Christ, in the lively exercise of
	faith. Now he "sees" the fury of the elements, and
	immediately the power of Christ to bear him up fades before his view,
	and this makes him "afraid"—as how could he be otherwise,
	without any felt power to keep him up? He then "begins to
	sink"; and finally, conscious that his experiment had failed, he
	casts himself, in a sort of desperate confidence, upon his "Lord"
	for deliverance! 
	 John 8:58- :: 
	 And
	immediately Jesus stretched forth His hand, and caught him, and
said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou
doubt? —This rebuke was not
	administered while Peter was sinking, nor till Christ had him by the
	hand: first reinvigorating his faith, and then with it enabling
	him again to walk upon the crested wave. Useless else had been this
	loving reproof, which owns the faith that had ventured on the
	deep upon the bare word of Christ, but asks why that distrust
	which so quickly marred it. 
	 John 8:58- :: 
	 And
	when they —Jesus and Peter. 
	were
	come into the ship, the wind ceased. 
