Verse 26. I therefore so run, not as uncertainly — In the foot-course in those games, how many soever ran, only one could have the prize, however strenuously they might exert themselves; therefore, all ran uncertainly; but it was widely different in the Christian course, if every one ran as he ought, each would receive the prize.The word αδηλως, which we translate uncertainly, has other meanings.1. It signifies ignorantly; I do not run like one ignorant of what he is about, or of the laws of the course; I know that there is an eternal life; I know the way that leads to it; and I know and feel the power of it.2. It signifies without observation; the eyes of all the spectators were fixed on those who ran in these races; and to gain the applause of the multitude, they stretched every nerve; the apostle knew that the eyes of all were fixed upon him.1. His false brethren waited for his halting:2. The persecuting Jews and Gentiles longed for his downfall:3. The Church of Christ looked on him with anxiety:4. And he acted in all things as under the immediate eye of God.Not as one that beateth the air — Kypke observes, that there are three ways in which persons were said, αεραδερειν, to beat the air.1. When in practising for the combat they threw their arms and legs about in different ways, thus practising the attitudes of offence and defence. This was termed σκιαμαχια, fighting with a shadow. To this Virgil alludes when representing Dares swinging his arms about, when he rose to challenge a competitor in the boxing match:- No man, who had not seen such a fight, could have given such a description as that above; and we may fairly presume that when Virgil was in Greece he saw such a contest at the Isthmian games, and therefore was enabled to paint from nature.Homer has the same image of missing the foe and beating the air, when describing Achilles attempting to kill Hector, who, by his agility and skill, (Poetice by Apollo,) eluded the blow:-  Τρις μεν επιτ' επορουσε ποδαρκης διος Αχιλλευς Εγχεΐ χαλκειῳ, τρις δ' ηερα τυψε βαθειαν. ILIAD, lib. xx., ver. 445  Thrice struck Pelides with indignant heart, Thrice, in impressive air, he plunged the dart.-Pope. 