 3.   ἠργάζετο ] “The Jewish Rabbis having no state pay, it was their practice to teach their children a trade. ‘What is commanded of a father towards his son?’ asks a Talmudic writer. ‘To circumcise him, to teach him the law, to teach him a trade.’ Rabbi Judah saith, ‘He that teacheth not his son a trade, doth the same as if he taught him to be a thief:’ and Rabban Gamaliel saith, ‘He that hath a trade in his hand, to what is he like? He is like a vineyard that is fenced.’ ” C. and H. i. p. 58.
	The places where Paul refers to his supporting himself by his own manual labour are, ch. Acts 20:34 (Ephesus): 1 Corinthians 9:12 ff.; 2 Corinthians 7:2 (Corinth): 1 Thessalonians 2:9 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:8 (Thessalonica).
	In 2 Corinthians 11:9 , we learn that supplies were also brought to him at Corinth from Macedonia, i.e. Philippi, see Philippians 4:15 .
	 σκηνοποιοί ] The general opinion now is, that Paul was a maker of tents from the ‘cilicium,’ or hair-cloth of Cilician goats. Thus Kuinoel, citing from Hug and Eichhorn, says of the former, “Ad hanc sententiam comprobandam monuit, Ciliciam, Pauli patriam, refertam fuisse hircis et capris villosis, eorumque villis Cilices usos esse ad conficiendum pannum,  Cilicium inde dictum. Suidas: Κίλικος τράγος · ὁ δασύς τοιοῦτοι γὰρ ἐν Κιλικίᾳ γίνονται τράγοι , ὅθεν καὶ τὰ ἐκ τῶν τριχῶν συντιθέμενα Κιλίκια καλοῦνται .
	Hoc panno usos esse milites, nautas, Nomadas, ad tentoria conficienda, v. Vegetius, de Re Mil. Acts 4:6 . Plin. N. H. vi. 28, ‘Nomades, infestatoresque Chaldæorum scenitæ … et ipsi vagi, sed a tabernaculis cognominati, quæ  ciliciis metantur, ubi libuit.’ Solin. 33, ‘Scenitæ caussam nominis inde ducunt, quod tentoriis succedunt, nec alias domos habent, ipsa autem tentoria  cilicina sunt; ita nuncupantur velamenta caprarum pilis texta.’ ” If it be objected, that Paul would hardly find the raw material for this work in cities far from Cilicia, it may be answered, that this would not be required in the fabrication of  tents from the  haircloth , which doubtless itself would be an article of commerce in the markets of Greece.
	Chrysost. calls Paul sometimes σκηνοῤῥάφος , sometimes σκυτοτόμος , a leather-cutter, imagining that the tents were made of leather; ἐπὶ σκηνοῤῥαφείου ἑστὼς δέρματα ἔῤῥαπτε (in Catena).