 18. ] It has been considered doubtful whether the words κειρ . τ . κεφ . κ . τ . λ . apply to  Paul , the subject of the sentence, or to  Aquila , the last subject. The  former is held by Chrys., Theoph., Aug [89] , Jer [90] , Isid [91] , Bede [92] , Calv., Beza, Calov., Wolf, Olsh., Neand., De Wette, Baumgarten, Hackett, Wordsworth (whose note may be profitably consulted), al.: the  latter by (Vulg.), Grot., Alberti, Kuinoel, Meyer, al., and more recently Dean Howson, vol. i. p. 498. But I quite agree with Neander (Pfl. u. Leit. p. 348, note), that if we consider the matter carefully, there can be no doubt that they  can only apply to Paul . For, although this vow differed from that of the Nazarite, who shaved his hair at the  end of his votive period, in the temple at Jerusalem, and burnt it with his peace-offering ( Num 6:1-21 ), Josephus gives us a description of a somewhat similar one, B. J. ii. 15. 1, τοὺς γὰρ ἢ νόσῳ καταπονουμένους ἤ τισιν ἄλλαις ἀνάγκαις , ἔθος εὔχεσθαι πρὸ τριάκοντα ἡμερῶν ἧς ἀποδώσειν μέλλοιεν θυσίας , οἴνου τε ἀφέξεσθαι καὶ ξυρήσασθαι τὰς κόμας , where it appears from ξυρήσασθαι (which, as Neander observes, if it applied to the  end of the time, would be ξυρήσεσθαι (or perhaps rather θρέψειν )), that the hair was shaved thirty days before the sacrifice. At all events,  no sacrifice could be offered any where but at Jerusalem : and every such vow would conclude with a sacrifice. Now we find, on comparing the subsequent course of Aquila with that of Paul, that the former  did not go up to Jerusalem , but remained at Ephesus ( Act 18:26 ): but that Paul  hastened by Ephesus, and did go up to Jerusalem: see Acts 18:22 . Again, it would be quite irrelevant to the purpose of Luke, to relate such a fact of  one of Paul’s companions . That he should do so apologetically, to shew that the Apostle still countenanced conformity with the law, is a view which I cannot find justified by any features of this book: and it surely would be a very far-fetched apology, and one likely to escape the notice of many readers, seeing that Aquila would not appear as being under Paul’s influence, and even his conversion to the Gospel has not been related, but is left to be implied from Acts 18:26 . Again, Meyer’s ground for referring κειράμ . to Aquila, that his name is here placed after that of his wife, is untenable, seeing that, for some reason, probably the superior character or office in the church, of Priscilla, the same arrangement is found (in the best MSS. at Acts 18:26 , and) at Romans 16:3 ; 2 Timothy 4:19 . Lastly, the very form of the sentence is against a change of subject at κειράμενος . There are, from Act 18:18-23 incl., a section forming a distinct narration, and complete in itself, no less than  nine aorist participles, eight of which indisputably apply to Paul as the subject of the section : leaving it hardly open to question that κειράμενος also must be referred to him.
	 [89]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [90]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	 [91] Isidore of Pelusium, 412
	 [92] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.
	There need be no enquiry  what danger can have prompted such a vow on his part, when we recollect the catalogue given by him in 2 Corinthians 11:0 . Besides, he had, since his last visit to Jerusalem, been νόσῳ καταπονούμενος (see Jos. above, note on ch. Acts 16:6 , and Prolegg. to Gal. § ii. 3): it is true, a considerable time ago, but this need not prevent our supposing that the vow may have been then made, to be paid on his next visit to Jerusalem. That he had not sooner paid it, is accounted for by his having been since that time under continual pressure of preaching and founding churches, and having finally been detained by special command at Corinth. That he was now so anxious to pay it ( Act 18:21 ), consists well with the supposition of its having been long delayed.
	 ἐν Κεγχρεαῖς ] Κεγχρεαὶ κώμη κ . λιμὴν ἀπέχων τῆς πόλεως ὅσον ἑβδομήκοντα στάδια . τούτῳ μὲν χρῶνται πρὸς τοὺς ἐκ τῆς Ἀσίας , πρὸς δὲ τοὺς ἐκ τῆς Ἰταλίας τῷ Λεχαίῳ . Strabo, viii. 380. There was soon after a Christian church there: see Romans 16:1 .