 2.   Ἰουδαῖον ] It appears that Aquila and Priscilla were  not Christians at this time: it is the similarity of employment only which draws them to Paul, and their conversion is left to be inferred as taking place in consequence: see Acts 18:26 .
	 Ποντικὸν τ  .   γ  . ] It is remarkable, that  Pontius Aquila is a name found in the Pontian gens at Rome more than once in the days of the Republic (see Cicero, ad Fam. x. 33; Suet., Jul. Cæs 78; Smith’s Dict. of Biogr., art. Aquila, Pontius); whence some have supposed that this may have been a freedman of a Pontius Aquila, and that Ποντ .  τῷ γένει may have been an inference from his name. But besides that Luke’s acquaintance with the real origin of Aquila could hardly but have been accurate,  Aquila , the translator of the O. T. into Greek, was  also a native of Pontus .
	From the notices of Aquila and Priscilla in the Epistles, they appear to have travelled, fixing their abode by turns in different principal cities, for the sake of their business. In Acts 18:19 , we have them left at Ephesus (see also Act 18:26 ); in 1 Corinthians 16:19 , still there; in Romans 16:3 ff., again at Rome; in 2 Timothy 4:19 , again at Ephesus.
	 διὰ τὸ διατεταχέναι  … ] Suet. Claud. 25, says, ‘Judæos impulsore Chresto assidue tumultuantes Roma expulit:’ but as he gives this without any fixed note of time, as the words ‘impulsore Chresto’ may be taken in three ways (as indicative either (1) of an actual leader of that name, or (2) of some tumult connected with the expectations of a Messiah, or (3) of some dispute about Christianity), Neander well observes, that after all which has been said on it, no secure historical inference respecting the date of the event, or its connexion with any Christian church at Rome, can be drawn. It was  as a Jew that Aquila was driven from Rome: and there is not a word of Christians here. If one could identify this expulsion of the Jews with that of the ‘mathematici’ in Tacitus (Ann. xii. 52), which took place Fausto Sulla, Salv [88] Othone Coss. (A.D. 52), we might be on surer ground, but this is very uncertain, and even improbable. The two could hardly have been  united . The circumstance related by Dio Cassius, lx. 6, which seems to contradict Suetonius and our text, τοὺς Ἰουδαίους πλεονάσαντας αὖθις , ὥστε χαλεπῶς ἂν ἄνευ ταραχῆς ὑπὸ τοῦ ὄχλου σφῶν τῆς πόλεως εἰρχθῆναι , οὐκ ἐξήλασε μέν , τῷ δὲ πατρίῳ νόμῳ βίῳ χρωμένους ἐκέλευσε μὴ συναθροίζεσθαι , probably describes a step taken by Claudius  previously to this expulsion, which not improbably occasioned the tumults which made the expulsion necessary.
	 [88] Salv  ianus , 440
	The edict soon became invalid, or the prohibition was taken off: we find Aquila at Rome, Romans 16:3 , and many Jews resident there, ch. Acts 28:17 ff.