Well [πηγη] . Strictly, spring. The word for cistern or well is frear, which John uses at vv. 11, 12. Elsewhere in the New Testament always of a pit. See Luke 14:5; Revelation 9:1, Revelation 9:2. There is no mention of Jacob 's Well in the Old Testament. The traditional well still remains. "At the mouth of the valley of Schechem two slight breaks are visible in the midst of the vast plain of corn - one a white Mussulman chapel; the other a few fragments of stone. The first of these covers the alleged tomb of Joseph,... the second marks the undisputed site of the well, now neglected and choked up by the ruins which have fallen into it; but still with every claim to be considered the original well" (Stanley, "Sinai and Palestine "). Dr. Thomson says :" I could see nothing like a well - nothing but a low, modern wall, much broken down, and never, apparently, more than ten feet high. The area enclosed by it is fifty - six paces from east to west, and sixty - five from north to south. The surface is covered by a confused mass of shapeless rubbish, overgrown with weeds and nettles.... The well is near the southeastern corner of the area, and, to reach the mouth of it, one must let himself down, with some risk, about ten feet into a low vault "(" Land and Book "). Dr. Thosson also remarks upon the great discrepancy in the measurements of the well by different tourists, owing to the accumulations of stones and debris from the ruins of the buildings which formerly covered it." All confirm the saying of the Samaritan woman that 'the well is deep. ' " Maundrell, in 1697, makes the depth one hundred and five feet, with fifteen feet of water. Mr. Calhoun, in 1838, found nearly the same depth of water. Dr. Wilson, in 1841, found the depth only seventy - five feet, which is confirmed by the later measurements of Captain Anderson in 1866, and of Lieutenant Conder in 1875. Wearied [κεκοπιακως] . See on Luke 5:5. Thus. Just as He was; or, as some explain, being thus wearied. Sat. The imperfect tense; was sitting, when the woman came. Sixth Hour. According to the Jewish reckoning, mid - day. According to the Roman mode, between 5 and 6 P. M. See on 1 39. Evening was the usual time for drawing water.