 14. ]  καί must not be understood (Chrysost., Grot., Lampe, Theophylact, alli [17] .) as giving a reason for the verse before; it is only the same copula as in John 1:1 ; John 1:3-5 ; passing on to a further assertion regarding the Word.
	 [17] alli = some cursive mss.
	 σὰρξ ἐγ  ., became  flesh: the most general expression of the great truth that He became  man . He became that, of which man is in the body compounded. There is no  reference here to the doctrine of the Lord Jesus being the second Adam, as Olshausen thinks; but although there may be no  reference to it, it  lies at the ground of this wideness of expression. The doctrine  in this form may have been, as Lücke observes, alien to John’s habits of thought, but not  that which is implied in the doctrine , the taking of the  nature of man by the Eternal Word.
	The simplicity of this expression is no doubt directed against the Docetæ of the Apostle’s time, who maintained that the Word  only apparently took human nature. Therefore he says σὰρξ  ἐγένετο  , absolutely and literally  became flesh: see ref. 1 John. The expression is not guarded against the interpretation of the Apollinarian heretics, who held that the Lord had not a human  soul ( ψυχή ); but this error was not in the Apostle’s view, and is abundantly refuted elsewhere (see Mat 26:38 and note on 36 46, and the references there made to John’s Gospel).
	 ἐσκήνωσεν  , ‘  sojourned ,’ or ‘  tabernacled ,’ in us. There is no reference to the flesh being the  tabernacle of the Spirit; but the word is one technically used in Scripture to import the  dwelling of God among men . See besides reff., Leviticus 26:11-12 ; Ezekiel 43:7 ; Ezekiel 37:27 ; Sir 24:8 ; Sir 24:10 .
	 ἡμῖν “hominibus, qui caro sumus,” Bengel.
	 καὶ ἐθ  .   τ  .   δόξ  .   αὐτ  . ]  we saw see 1 John 1:1 ; 2 Peter 1:16 .
	This is the Apostle’s testimony  as such , see Acts 1:21 .
	The mention of  δόξα seems to be suggested by the word  ἐσκήνωσεν  , so frequently used of the divine Presence or  Shechinah , and cognate in its very form with it: “eædem litteræ in שכינה et σκηνή .” Bengel.
	This glory was seen by the disciples, ch. John 2:11 ; John 11:4 : also by Peter, James, and John, specially, on the mount of transfiguration: to which occasion the words ὡς μονογενοῦς παρὰ πατρός seem to refer: but mainly, in the whole converse and teaching and suffering of the Lord, who was full of grace and truth: see below.
	On  ὡς Chrysostom remarks (Hom. xii. in Joan., vol. viii. p. 66), οὐχ ὁμοιώσεως , οὐδὲ παραβολῆς , ἀλλὰ βεβαιώσεως καὶ ἀναμφισβητήτου δωρισμοῦ · ὡσανεὶ ἔλεγεν Ἐθ . δόξαν  οἵαν ἔπρεπε καὶ εἰκὸς ἔχειν μονογενῆ καὶ γνήσιον υἱὸν ὄντα τοῦ πάντων βασιλέως θεοῦ (see reff.).
	 μονογ  . ] This word applied to Christ is peculiar to John: see reff. In the N.T. usage it signifies the  only son; in the LXX, Ps. 21:20, the  beloved , and Ps. 24:16, one  deserted, left alone . It has been attempted to render the word in John, according to the usage in Ps. 21:20. But obviously in the midst of ideas reaching so far deeper than that of regard, or love, of the Father for the Son, the word cannot be interpreted except in accordance with them. It refers to, and contrasts with, the τέκνα τοῦ θεοῦ in John 1:12-13 .  They receive their divine birth by faith in Him and through Him; but HE is the μονογενής of the Father in the higher sense, in which He is γεννηθείς the Son of God.
	 παρὰ πατρός belongs to μονογενοῦς ; not to  δόξαν  , as Theophyl., Erasm., Grot. suppose.
	The ellipse is to be supplied by considering the state in which the λόγος here appears, that of having become σάρξ and dwelling among us.
	 πλήρ  .   χάρ  .   κ  .   ἀλ  . ] These words have been variously connected. The view of Erasmus, who places the period at πατρός , and connects these words with Ἰωάννης , scarcely needs refutation, whether we regard the construction, or the meaning of the sentence. The reading πλήρη has probably arisen from a correction, to connect the adj. with δόξαν . Some do this even with πλήρης , but both the construction and the sense are against it. It was not the δόξα , but He Himself, that was πλήρης χ . κ . ἀλ .: see below, John 1:17 . Others suppose πλήρης to refer directly to μονογενοῦς , and justify this by Ephesians 3:17-18 . But besides the unnecessary harshness of this, the sense is against it also; for it cannot be said, ‘we saw His glory, the glory as of one who was full of grace and truth;’ we must have the ὡς referring, in the sense of οἵαν ἔπρεπε (see above), to some mysterious hidden character which the glory testified, whereas the πλήρης χ . κ . ἀλ . is itself a  mere matter of fact , to which the Apostles themselves could ( Joh 1:17 ) bear witness. Another construction is (as usually done and in E. V.) to take καὶ … πατρός as parenthetical, and connect πλήρης immediately with ἐσκήνωσεν . Such parentheses are common in the style of this Gospel: see ch. John 6:22-24 ; John 11:2 ; John 19:23-24 ; ib. John 19:31 . But by far the best is, to regard πλήρης as referring to αὐτοῦ , by an anomaly in concord often found in the N.T. (see Luk 20:27 note; Luk 24:47 ), and especially in the Apocalypse, cf. Rev 1:4 alli [18] . fr.
	 [18] alli = some cursive mss.
	 χάρ  .   κ  .   ἀλ  . ] Not = χάριτος ἀληθινῆς , which destroys the precision of the expression, and itself conveys no sense whatever; but  setting out the two sides of the divine manifestation in Christ,  χάρις  , as the result of Love to mankind,  ἀλήθεια (see reff. and ch. Joh 14:6 ), as the unity, purity, and light of His own Character.