 15. ] The testimony of John, so important as being the fulfilment of the very object for which he was ἀπεσταλμένος παρὰ θεοῦ , is in this prologue ranged, so to speak, parallel with the assertions and testimony of the Evangelist himself. So that this verse does not interrupt the train of thought, but confirms by this important testimony the assertion ὁ λόγος σὰρξ ἐγ ., shewing that John  bore witness to His præ-existence . Then ( Joh 1:16 ) the πλήρ . χ . κ . ἀλ . is again taken up. Euthymius paraphrases: εἰ καὶ μὴ ἐγώ , φησί , δοκῶ τισιν ἴσως ἀξιόπιστος , ἀλλὰ πρὸ ἐμοῦ ὁ Ἰωάννης μαρτυρεῖ περὶ τῆς θεότητος αὐτοῦ , Ἰωάννης ἐκεῖνος , οὗ τὸ ὄνομα μέγα καὶ περιβόητον παρὰ πᾶσι τοῖς Ἰουδαίοις .
	 μαρτυρεῖ  , present, for solemnity as part of the testimony to Him, not only once given, but still subsisting.
	 κέκραγεν ]  crieth (the  perfect being, in sense,  present; ‘hath cried ,’ so that the voice is still sounding), see ch. John 7:37 : “clamat Johannes cum fiducia et gaudio, uti magnum præconem decet.” Bengel.
	 οὗτος ἦν ὃν εἶπον  … ] This form of the words seems to shew, as indeed would appear from the announcement of his own office by the Baptist, that he had uttered these words in the power of the Spirit concerning Him whose forerunner he was  before he saw and recognized Him in the flesh . Then,  on doing so , he exclaimed,  This was He of whom I said, &c. This view seems to be borne out by his own statement, John 1:33 , and by the order of the narrative in Matthew 3:11-13 .
	 ὀπίσω μ  .   ἐρχ  . ] In point of  time; not of  birth merely or principally, nor of  commencement of official life: but, inasmuch as John was His  Forerunner , on account of official  position .
	 ἔμπροσθέν μ  .   γέγονεν ] The E. V. is here very accurate,  is preferred before me; the  γέγονεν setting forth the advancement to official dignity before which John’s office waned and decreased (ch. Joh 3:30 ), which took place even while John’s course was being fulfilled. The only objection to ‘  preferred ’ is, its possible ambiguity. Even Dr. Johnson has fallen into the mistake, in his Dictionary, of quoting this passage as an instance of the sense “to love more than another.” [‘  Taketh place ,’] ‘  is advanced ,’ ‘hath come to be’ (which however again is ambiguous), are other possible renderings. This sense of  ἔμπροσθεν (besides reff.) is justified by classical usage in Plato, who uses ἔμπροσθεν τιθέναι for  præponere , Legg. vii. 805. See also i. 631; ver. 743. Also Demosthenes, κατὰ Διονυσοδώρου , p. 1296. 26, … τὰς αἰτίας τῶν ἡδικηκότων ἔμπροσθεν οὔσας τοῦ δικαίου .
	 ὅτι πρῶτός μου ἦν ] The only sense which these words will bear, is,  because (or,  for, but better  because )  He  was (not ἐγένετο , but  ἦν as in Joh 1:1 )  before Me; i.e. ‘He  existed , was in being, before me.’ The question raised by Lücke and De Wette, whether it is probable that the Baptist had, or expressed such views of the præ-existence of Christ, is not one for us to deal with, in the face of so direct a testimony as is given to the  fact , here and in ch. John 3:27 ff. In all probability, the Evangelist was himself a disciple of the Baptist: and if he has given us a fuller and somewhat differing account of his testimony to Christ, it is because his means of information were ampler than those of the other Evangelists. The questioners seem to forget that the Baptist was divinely raised up and commissioned,  and full of the Holy Ghost , and  spoke in that power; his declarations were not therefore merely conclusions which he had arrived at by natural means, the study of the prophecies, &c. (Lücke, p. 353): but  inspirations and revelations of the Spirit . This last is fully recognized by Olshausen (ii. 61).