 28. ] The common reading,  Βηθαβαρᾷ  , is owing to a conjecture of Origen, the grounds of which he thus states: ὅτι μὲν  σχεδὸν ἐν πᾶσι τοῖς ἀντιγράφοις κεῖται “ ταῦτα ἐν Βηθανίᾳ ἐγένετο ” οὐκ ἀγνοοῦμεν , καὶ ἔοικε τοῦτο καὶ ἔτι πρότερον γεγονέναι · καὶ παρὰ Ἡρακλεωνι γοῦν Βηθανίαν ἀνέγνωμεν . ἐπείσθημεν δὲ μὴ δεῖν  Βηθανίᾳ ἀναγινώσκειν , ἀλλὰ  Βηθαβαρᾷ  , γενόμενοι ἐν τοῖς τόποις ἐπὶ ἱστορίαν τῶν ἰχνῶν Ἰησοῦ καὶ τῶν μαθητῶν αὐτοῦ καὶ τῶν προφητῶν . Βηθανία γάρ , ὡς ὁ αὐτὸς εὐαγγελιστής φησι , ἡ πατρὶς Λαζάρου καὶ Μάρθας καὶ Μαρίας , ἀπέχει τῶν Ἱεροσολύμων σταδίους δέκα πέντε · ἧς πόῤῥω ἐστὶν ὁ Ιορδάνης ποταμός , ὡς ἀπὸ σταδίων πλατεῖ λόγῳ ρπ ʼ (180). ἀλλ ʼ οὐδὲ ὁμώνυμος τῇ Βηθανίᾳ τόπος ἐστὶν περὶ τὸν Ἰορδάνην ·  δείκνυσθαι δὲ λέγουσι παρὰ τῇ ὄχθῃ τοῦ Ἰορδάνου τὰ Βηθαβαρᾶ , ἔνθα ἱστοροῦσι τὸν Ἰωάννην βεβαπτικέναι (In Joan. John 6:24 , p. 140). He goes on to shew from the  etymology of the names that it must have been Bethabara; an argument which modern criticism will not much esteem. It will be seen that his testimony is decisive for the universality and authority of Βηθανίᾳ , while for the other he only produces a tradition, and that only at second-hand; “  they say that such a place is shewn.” That no Bethany beyond Jordan was known in his time proves but little; for 300 eventful years had changed the face of Palestine since these events, and the names and sites of many obscure places may have been forgotten. I abstain from enumerating modern conjectures on the identity of the two, or the etymology of the names, as being indecisive and unprofitable. The objection of Paulus, that πέραν τοῦ Ἰορδάνου the Sanhedrim had no authority, appears not to be founded in fact: see Lücke’s Comm. i. 394 ff.
	The question whether this testimony of the Baptist is identical with that given by the three other Evangelists, especially by Luke ( Luk 3:16 ), is, after all that has been said on it (Lücke, De Wette, Olshausen, &c.), not of great importance. The whole series of transactions here recorded, from Joh 1:15 onwards, certainly happened  after the baptism of our Lord; for before that event John  did not know Him as ὁ ἐρχόμενος : and μέσος ὑμῶν στήκει Joh 1:26 shews that  he had so recognized Him (see below on τῇ ἐπαύρ .): whereas the testimony in Luk 3:16 and [28] , is as certainly given  before the baptism. But since the great end of John’s mission was to proclaim Him who was coming after him, it is not only probable, but absolutely necessary to suppose, that he should have delivered this testimony  often , and under varying circumstances:  before the baptism, in the form given by Luke,  ἔρχεται ὁ ἰσχυρ . μου κ . τ . λ ., and  after it in this form, οὗτος ἦν ὃν εἶπον ( Joh 1:15 ), where his former testimony is distinctly referred to. And among John’s disciples and the multitudes who frequented his baptism, many reports of such his sayings would naturally be current. So that there is neither a real nor even an apparent contradiction between John and the other Evangelists.
	 [28] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	It is a far more important question,  in what part of this narration the forty days’ Temptation is to be inserted . From Joh 1:19 to ch. Joh 2:1 there is an unbroken sequence of days distinctly marked. Since then Joh 1:19 must be understood as happening after the baptism, it must have happened  after the Temptation also. And in this supposition there is not the slightest difficulty. But when we have made it, it still remains to say whether at that time our Lord had returned from the Temptation or not. The general opinion of Harmonists has been, that the approach of Jesus to John in Joh 1:29  was His return after the Temptation . But this I think questionable, on account of the μέσος ὑμῶν στήκει , John 1:26 ; which I can only understand literally. I therefore believe that the return from the Temptation to Bethany beyond Jordan had taken place before the deputation arrived.