 16. ] Origen (in Evang. Johan. tom. vi. 2, vol. iv. p. 102) blames Heracleon for terminating the testimony of John at the end of John 1:17 , and makes it continue to the end of John 1:18 . But it can hardly be that his testimony extends beyond John 1:15 , for ἡμεῖς πάντες would bear no very definite meaning, and the assertions in Joh 1:17 would be alien from the character of the Baptist, belonging as they do to the more mature development of Christian doctrines. I cannot doubt that this and the following verses  belong to the Evangelist , and are a carrying onwards of his declarations concerning the divine Word.
	Joh 1:15 is not parenthetical, but confirmatory of John 1:14 , and this verse  grounds itself on the fact of John 1:14 ,  corroborated by the testimony of John 1:15 ,  that He dwelt among us, and that we saw His glory, full of grace and truth .
	 τὸ πλήρωμα is  that of which He was  πλήρης  , John 1:14 , and is not connected with the Gnostic  pleroma at all. See reff.
	 ἡμεῖς πάντες ] All who believe on Him: see John 1:12 .
	 ἐλάβομεν  ,   καί ]  received, and that … ‘our relation to Him has been that of recipients out of His fulness, and the thing received has been’.… So Herod. i. 102, ἔχων δύο ταῦτα ἔθνεα , καὶ ἀμφότερα ἰσχυρά .
	 χάριν ἀντὶ χάριτος ] The ancient interpretation, τὴν καινὴν διαθήκην ἀντὶ τῆς παλαιᾶς (Euthym [19] ), is certainly wrong, for the ἐλάβομεν is spoken entirely of  the times of the Incarnate Word: and besides, ὁ νόμος and χάρις are distinctly  opposed to one another in the next verse.
	 [19] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	The prep.  ἀντί is properly used of any thing which  supersedes another, or occupies its place. This is in fact its ordinary usage when  exchange is spoken of: the possession of the thing gotten succeeds to, supersedes, the possession of the thing given in exchange, and I possess τοῦτο ἀντὶ ἐκείνου . Thus also we have received χάριν ἀντὶ χάριτος  continual accessions of grace; new grace coining upon and superseding the former. Thus in Theognis, Sentt. 343 ff. (Lücke), τεθναίην δ ʼ εἰ μή τι κακῶν ἄμπαυμα μεριμνέων | εὑροίμην , δοίης δ ʼ  ἀντ  ʼ   ἀνιῶν ἀνίας  . And Chrysostom, de Sacerdotio, 6. 13, vol. i. p. 435, σὺ δέ με ἐκπέμπεις ,  ἑτέραν ἀνθ  ʼ   ἑτέρας φροντίδα ἐνθείς . Also Philo, i. 254, speaking of this very word χάρις : τὰς πρώτας ἀεὶ χάριτας … ἐπισχὼν καὶ ταμιευσάμενος εἰσαῦθις  ἑτέρας ἀντὶ ἐκείνων καὶ  τρίτας ἀντὶ δευτέρων  , καὶ ἀεὶ  νέας ἀντὶ παλαιοτέρων  , τότε μὲν διαφορούσας , τότε δ ʼ αὖ καὶ τὰς αὐτὰς ἐπιδίδωσι .