 46. ] It does not appear where Nathanael was found: but he is described, ch. John 21:2 , as ὁ ἀπὸ Κανᾶ τῆς Γαλιλαίας : and as we find Jesus there, ch. John 2:1 , it is probable the call may have taken place in its neighbourhood. Nathanael (“ נְהַנְאֵל , i. q. Θεόδωρος , gift of God.” Wordsw.) is mentioned  only in these two places . From them we should gather that  he was an Apostle; and as his name is no where found in the catalogues of the Twelve, but Philip is associated in three of them (Matthew 10:3 ; Mark 3:18 ; Luk 6:14 ) with  Bartholomew , it has been supposed that Nathanael and Bartholomew  were the same person (see note on Mat 10:3 ). This is however mere conjecture.
	 Μωυσῆς ἐν τ  .   ν  ., probably in Deuteronomy 18:15 ; but also in the promises to Abraham, Gen 17:7 alli [36] .: and in the prophecy of Jacob, Genesis 49:10 , and the Prophets, passim: see the reff. in E. V.
	 [36] alli = some cursive mss.
	 τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ Ἰωσ  .   τ  .   ἀπὸ [37] .] This expression seems to shew previous acquaintance on the part of Philip with Jesus. No stress can be laid, as has been most unfairly done by Lücke, De Wette, and others, on Jesus being called by Philip,  the son of Joseph , as indicating that the history of His birth and childhood, as related by Matt. and Luke, was  unknown to John . Philip  expresses what was the prevailing belief, in the ordinary words , as Olshausen remarks. In an admirable note, Leben Jesu, p. 23 ff., Neander remarks, that by combining the two declarations of John, that  in Jesus the Eternal Word of God became flesh ( Joh 1:14 ), and that ‘  that which is born of the flesh is flesh ’ (ch. Joh 3:6 ), we cannot escape the inference, that a  supernatural working of God in the conception of the Man Christ Jesus is implied .
	 [37] CODEX PURPUREUS. “These fragments (of the  sixth century ) are found in three places: four leaves are in the British Museum (Cotton. C. xv.), denoted J or I by Wetstein and others; two are at Vienna (Imperial Library, Cod. Theol. Gr. Numbers 2:0 Lambec.), to which the notation N was formerly restricted; and six in the Vatican (No. 3785), called by Scholz Γ . Edited by Tischendorf in his Monumenta Sacra, 1846.” (Tregelles.) To these must now be added some further fragments collated by Tischendorf for his eighth edition.