 29. ]  τῇ ἐπαύριον  , the day after. Those who wish to introduce the Temptation between John 1:28-29 , interpret it, ‘  on some day after .’ Thus Euthym [29]  τῇ ἐπ  ., μετὰ τὴν ἀπὸ ἐρήμου κάθοδον αὐτοῦ δηλονότι . But this sense of τῇ ἐπ ., although certainly found in the LXX, see Genesis 30:33 , is not according to the usage of John (see reff.), and would be quite alien from the precision of this whole portion of the narrative, which, John 1:40 , specifies even the hours of the day. I understand it therefore literally, both here and in John 1:35 ; John 1:44 .
	 [29] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	 ἐρχ  .   π  .   αὐτ  . ] It is not said  whence , or  why , or whether for the purpose of an interview, or not;  the fact merely is related, for the sake of the testimony which follows. I mention this, because on these points difficulties have been raised.
	 ἴδε ὁ ἀμν  .   τ  .   θ  . ] This is one of the most important and difficult sayings in the N.T.  The question to be answered is, in calling Jesus by so definite a name as  ὁ ἀμνὸς τοῦ θεοῦ  ,  to what did John refer? And this question is intimately connected with that of the meaning of the following words,  ὁ αἴρων τὴν ἁμαρτίαν τοῦ κόσμου  .
	( α ) The title must refer to  some known and particular lamb , and cannot be a mere figure for a just and holy man, as Kuinoel and Gabler suppose. It is inconceivable, that ὁ ἀμνὸς τοῦ θεοῦ should in a testimony so precise and formal as this of the Baptist, be  nothing but an hyperbole , and that one  wholly unprecedented , and to his hearers  unintelligible . Had no doctrinal considerations been at stake, we may safely say that this interpretation would never have been proposed. In its bearing on the latter clause of the verse, it is equally untenable. These interpreters make ὁ αἴρων τ . ἁμ . τ . κόσ . to mean, “qui pravitatem hominum per vitam suam graviter quidem etsi innocens experietur, sed agni instar mala sibi inflicta patiente et mansueto animo sustinebit” (Gabler); or, “Hic removebit peccata hominum, i. e, pravitatem e terra,” The first of these meanings of αἴρειν is  altogether without example: that cited from 1Ma 13:17 , not being applicable. The second, though common enough in other connexions, is never found with ἁμαρτίαν : see reff. The commonsense account of this part of the matter is: John wished to point out Jesus as  the Messiah: he designates Him as  the Lamb of God; he therefore referred to some definite lamb, revealed by God, sent by God, pleasing to God, or in some meaning especially,  τοῦ θεοῦ  .  Whence did this idea come?
	( β ) Can John have referred to the  paschal lamb? Further than that the very use of the name brings in with it the general typical use of the animal, and that thus this particular use may lie in the background,  I think not , and for this reason: The  dominant idea in the paschal sacrifice has no connexion, in any sense of the words, with αἴρειν τὴν ἁμαρτίαν . However by the light  now thrown back on it since the Spirit has opened the things of Christ,  we discern this typical meaning in the sprinkling of the blood (see 1Co 5:7 ), in the  Jewish mind , no mention being made of sin or the removing of sin in any connexion with the paschal lamb, the two could not be brought forward, in such an announcement as this, in close connexion with one another.
	( γ ) Can the reference be to the  lamb of the daily morning and evening sacrifice? or to the  sacrificial lamb generally? With the same reservation as above,  I think not: for (1) this expression is too definite to have so general and miscellaneous a reference; (2) of many animals which were used for sacrifice, the lamb was  only one , and that one  not by any means so prominent as to serve as a type for the whole: and (3) the lamb (with only two exceptions, Leviticus 4:32 ; Numbers 6:14 , in both which cases it was to be a  female , as if for express distinction from the ordinary use of the lamb) was  never used for a sin-offering , properly so called and known. The  question is not , whether Christ be not typified by all these offerings, which we  now know to be the case ( 1Pe 1:19 alli [30] .), but whether  the Baptist is likely to have referred to them in such words as these .
	 [30] alli = some cursive mss.
	( δ ) There remains but one reference, and that is, to the  prophetic announcement in Isaiah 53:7 . The whole of that latter section of Isaiah, as before remarked on John 1:23 , is Messianic, and was so understood by the Jews (see my Hulsean Lectures for 1841, pp. 62 66). We have there the servant of God (= the Messiah) compared to  a lamb brought to the slaughter ( Isa 53:7 ), and it is said of Him ( Isa 53:4 ), οὗτος  τὰς ἁμαρτίας ἡμῶν  φέρει καὶ περὶ ἡμῶν ὀδυνᾶται John 1:5 , αὐτὸς δὲ ἐτραυματίσθη  διὰ τὰς ἁμαρτίας ἡμῶν John 1:6 , καὶ κύριος παρέδωκεν αὐτὸν  ταῖς ἁμαρτίαις ἡμῶν John 1:8 , αἴρεται ἀπὸ τῆς γῆς ἡ ζωὴ αὐτοῦ , ἀπὸ τῶν ἀνομιῶν τοῦ λαοῦ μου ἤχθη εἰς θάνατον John 1:12 , καὶ αὐτὸς  ἁμαρτίας πολλῶν ἀνήνεγκε καὶ διὰ τὰς ἀνομίας αὐτῶν παρεδόθη . So that here, and here only, we have the connexion of which we are in search, between  the lamb , and the  bearing or taking away of sin , expressly stated, so that it could be formally referred to in a testimony like the present. And I have therefore no doubt that  this was the reference .
	( ε ) We have now to enquire into the specific meaning of  ὁ αἴρων τὴν ἁμαρτίαν τοῦ κόσμου (see above under ( α )).  αἴρειν answers to the Heb. נָשָׂא , which is used frequently in the O.T. in connexion with חֵטְא or עָוֹן , in the sense of  peccati pœnas luere : see Leviticus 24:15 ; Numbers 5:31 ; Numbers 14:34 ; Ezekiel 4:5 ; Eze 23:35 alli [31] .: and variously rendered in the LXX by ἀναφέρειν , as above, Isaiah 53:11-12 , or φέρειν , ib. Isaiah 1:4 , or λαμβάνειν , Ezekiel 4:5 ; Ezekiel 18:19 ; Numbers 5:31 ; Numbers 14:34 ; Leviticus 24:15 . ἀφαιρεῖν (which though not a compound of αἴρειν , seems to have almost been adopted as such, the actual compound ἀπαίρειν being intransitive) is used in the sense of ‘  taking away of sin and its guilt ,’ but taking it away  by expiation: see Exodus 34:7 ; Leviticus 10:17 ; Numbers 14:18 .
	 [31] alli = some cursive mss.
	The word in our verse will bear either of these meanings, or both conjoined; for if the Lamb is to suffer the burden of the sins of the world, and to take away sin and its guilt by expiation, this result must be accomplished by the  offering of Himself .
	But ( ζ ) it is objected, that this view of a suffering Messiah and of expiation by the sufferings of  one , was  alien from the Jewish expectations; and that the Baptist (see Matthew 11:2 ff. and note) cannot himself have had any such view. But the answer to this may be found in the fact that the view, though not generally prevalent among the Jews, was by no means unknown to many. The application by the early Jewish expositors of Isaiah 53:0 to the Messiah, could hardly have been made, without the idea of the suffering and death of their Messiah being presented to their minds. The same would be the case in the whole sacrificial œconomy: the removal of guilt (which was universally ascribed to the Messiah) by suffering and death would be familiarized to their minds. Traces of this are found in their own writings. In 2Ma 7:37-38 , the last of the seven brethren thus speaks before his martyrdom: ἐγὼ δὲ καθάπερ οἱ ἀδελφοί μου καὶ σῶμα καὶ ψυχὴν προδίδωμι περὶ τῶν πατρίων νόμων , ἐπικαλούμενος τὸν θεὸν ἵλεων ταχὺ τῷ ἔθνει γενέσθαι , καὶ σὲ μετὰ ἑτασμῶν καὶ μαστίγων ἐξομολογήσασθαι , διότι μόνος αὐτὸς θεός ἐστιν . ἐν ἐμοὶ δὲ καὶ τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς μου στῆναι τὴν τοῦ παντοκράτορος ὀργὴν τὴν ἐπὶ τὸ σύμπαν ἡμῶν γένος δικαίως ἐπηγμένην . And Josephus, de Maccab. § 17 ( 4Ma 17:22 ) says of these same martyrs. that they were ὥσπερ ἀντίψυχον τῆς τοῦ ἔθνους ἁμαρτίας . καὶ διὰ τοῦ αἵματος τῶν εὐσεβῶν ἐκείνων καὶ ( τοῦ ) ἱλαστηρίου τοῦ θανάτου αὐτῶν ἡ θεία πρόνοια τὸν Ἰσραὴλ προκακωθέντα διέσωσε . The whole history of the sacrifices and devotions of the heathen world abounds with examples of the same idea variously brought forward; and to these the better-informed among the Jews could be no strangers. And as to the Baptist himself, we must not forget that the power of the Holy Spirit which enabled him to recognize by a special sign the Redeemer, also  spoke in him , and therefore his words would not be the result of education merely, or his own reasoning, but of that kind of intuitive perception of divine truth, which those have had who have been for any special purpose the organs of the Holy Ghost.
	And as regards Matthew 11:3 , the doubt on the mind of John there expressed does not appear to have touched at all on the matter now in question, but to have rather been a form of expressing his impatience at the slow and quiet progress of Him of whom he expected greater things and a more rapid public manifestation.
	See this whole enquiry pursued at greater length in Lücke’s Commentary, vol. i. pp. 401 416, from whence the substance of this note is taken.