 1 5. ] THE ETERNAL PRÆ-EXISTENCE OF THE  λόγος  : HIS PERSONAL DISTINCTNESS; BUT ESSENTIAL UNITY WITH GOD. HIS WORKING IN CREATION, AND IN THE ENLIGHTENING OF MEN BEFORE HIS MANIFESTATION IN THE FLESH; HIS NON-APPREHENSION BY THEM.
	Before commenting on the truths here declared, it is absolutely necessary to discuss the one word on which the whole turns: viz.  ὁ λόγος  . This term is used by John  without explanation , as bearing a meaning well known to his readers. The enquiry concerning that meaning must therefore be conducted on  historical , not on mere  grammatical grounds. And the most important elements of the enquiry are, (I.)  the usage of speech as regards the word , by John himself and other biblical writers: and (II.)  the purely historical information which we possess on the  ideas attached to the word .
	I. ( α ) From the first consideration we find, that in other biblical authors, as well as in John, the word is never used to signify the divine  Reason or  Mind; nor indeed those of any human creature. These ideas are expressed by πνεῦμα or καρδία , or νοῦς , or ἡ σοφία τοῦ θεοῦ . In the classics the word λόγος never signifies the  subjective faculty of reason, but the  reason to be given, objectively , of any thing or things. The usual Scripture meaning of λόγος is  speech or  word .  ὁ λόγος τοῦ θ  . is  the creative, declarative, injunctive Word of God .
	( β ) That this is also the import in our prologue, is manifest, from the evident relation which it bears to the opening of the history of creation in Genesis.  ὁ λόγος is not an  attribute of God, but an  acting reality , by which the Eternal and Infinite is the great first cause of the created and finite.
	( γ ) Again this  λόγος is undoubtedly in our prologue,  personal: not an abstraction merely, nor a personification, not the speaking word of God, once manifested in the Prophets but afterwards fully declared in Christ, as Luthardt (i. 280 ff.), comparing our prologue with Hebrews 1:1 , but a PERSON: for ὁ λόγος  ἦν πρὸς τὸν θεόν  , and ὁ λόγος  σὰρξ ἐγένετο  : also  θεὸς ἦν ὁ λόγος , not θεοῦ ἦν , which certainly would be said of none but a PERSON.
	( δ ) Moreover, the λόγος is  identical with JESUS CHRIST, as the præ-existing Son of God. A comparison of Joh 1:14-15 will place this beyond doubt.
	( ε ) And Jesus Christ is the Word of God, not because He  speaks the word (as if ὁ λόγος = ὁ λέγων , which is contrary to all usage, in which it = not ὁ λέγων , but τὸ λεγόμενον ); nor because He is the One promised or spoken of, = ὁ λεγόμενος , which is even less according to analogy; nor because He is the Author and source of the λόγος as spoken in the Scriptures, &c., any more than his being called ζωή and φῶς implies only that He is the  Giver of life and light: but because  the Word dwells in and speaks from him , just as the Light dwells in and shines from, and the Life lives in and works from, Him.
	( ζ ) This  λόγος which became flesh,  is not from, nor of, Time or Space (ch. John 3:31 ;. Joh 8:58 ); but  eternally præ-existent , and  manifested in Time and Space , for the gracious ends of divine Love in Redemption (ch. Joh 3:16-17 ).
	( η ) This  λόγος spoke in the Law and Prophets, yet partially and imperfectly (John 1:17 ; ch. John 5:39 ; Joh 5:46 ); but in the personal λόγος , spoke forth in fulness of grace and truth. It was He who made the worlds ( Joh 1:3 ); He, who appeared to Isaiah (Isaiah 6:0 , compare ch. Joh 12:41 ); He, whose glory is manifested in His power over nature (ch. Joh 2:11 ); He, by reception of whom the new birth is wrought (ch. Joh 1:12-13 ); who has power over all flesh (ch. Joh 17:2 ), and can bestow eternal life (ibid.); whose very sufferings were His glory, and the glorifying of God (ch. Joh 17:1 alli [1] .); and who, after those sufferings, resumed, and now has, the glory which He had with the Father before the world began (ch. John 18:5 ; Joh 18:24 ).
	 [1] alli = some cursive mss.
	( θ ) Luthardt, in his Commentary on this Gospel, has propounded (vol. i. p. 280 ff.) the following view of the word λόγος and its usage: Jesus Christ is the fulness of that word of God which was fragmentarily manifested in the Prophets ( Heb 1:1 ). But in this prologue, ὁ λόγος is not to be taken as  identical with Jesus not yet incarnate, nor is He the subject of John 1:1 ff. And he urges ch. John 10:35-36 (see note there, where I have discussed this) as a key text to the meaning of λόγος .
	It seems to me, that while much of his view is true and sound, that part of it will not hold which denies the identity of the præ-existent λόγος with Jesus, in the Apostle’s mind. Had he intended by the λόγος of Joh 1:1-4 any other than the personal Son of God who in Joh 1:14 became flesh, I do not see how ἦν πρὸς τὸν θεόν , and θεὸς ἦν , could be used of ὁ λόγος .
	Nor again can I consent with him to disconnect the use of λόγος by St. John from its previous history. The reasons given in this note for believing such use, as matter of fact, to have been prepared by the Alexandrine philosophy, are no way affected by the objections which he alleges, the difference between the λόγος of St. John and that of Philo, and the corrupt character of the philosophy itself.
	II. ( α ) We are now secondly to enquire, how it came that St. John found this  word  λόγος  so ready made to his hands, as to require no explanation . The answer to this will be found by tracing the  gradual personification of the  Word , or  Wisdom of God , in the O.T. and Jewish writings.
	( β ) We find faint traces of this personification in the  book of Psalms: see Psalms 33:4 ; Psalms 33:6 ; Psalms 119:89 ; Psalms 119:105 ; Psalms 107:20 ; Psalms 147:15 ; Psalms 147:18 . But it was not the mere offspring of poetic diction. For the whole form and expression of the O.T. revelation was that of the  Word of God . The Mosaic history opens with ‘  God said , Let there be light.’  Spoken commands, either openly, or in visions, were the communications from God to man. It is the Word, in all the Prophets; the Word, in the Law; in short, the Word, in all God’s dealings with his people: see further, Isaiah 40:8 ; Isaiah 55:10-11 ; Jer 23:29 alli [2] .
	 [2] alli = some cursive mss.
	( γ ) And as the  Word of God was the constant idea for his revelations  relatively to man , so was the  Wisdom of God, for those which related to  His own essence and attributes . That this was a later form of expression than the simple recognition of the divine Word in the Mosaic and early historical books, would naturally be the case, in the unfolding of spiritual knowledge and divine contemplation. His Almightiness was first felt, before His Wisdom and moral Purity were appreciated. In the books of Job (ch. Job 28:12 ff.) and the Proverbs (ch. Proverbs 8-9.) we find this  Wisdom of God personified; in the latter in very plain and striking terms; and this not poetically only, but practically; ascribing to the  Wisdom of God all his revelation of Himself in His works of Creation and Providence. So that this  Wisdom embraced in fact in itself the  Power of God; and there wanted but the highest divine attribute,  Love , to complete the idea. But this was reserved for the N.T. manifestation.
	( δ ) The next evidences of the gradual personification of the  Wisdom of God are found in the two Apocryphal Books, the Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach, and the Wisdom of Solomon. The first of these,  originally written in Hebrew (see Winer, Realwörterbuch, s. v.), belongs probably to the latter half of the second century before Christ. In Wis 1:1 , Wisdom is said to be παρὰ κυρίου , καὶ μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα : and in John 1:4 , προτέρα πάντων ἔκτισται σοφία . Then in ch. Wisdom 24:9 21, the same strain is continued: πρὸ τοῦ αἰῶνος ἀπ ʼ ἀρχῆς ἔκτισέν με κ . τ . λ ., and the passage concludes with these remarkable words, οἱ ἐσθίοντές με ἔτι πεινάσουσιν , καὶ οἱ πίνοντές με ἔτι διψήσουσιν .
	In the book of the Wisdom of Solomon, dating probably about 100 A.C., we find (in ch. Wis 6:22-25 .) a similar personification and eulogy of Wisdom. In this remarkable passage we have Wisdom called πάρεδρος τῶν σῶν θρόνων (ch. Wis 9:4 ) said to have been παροῦσα ὅτε ἐποίεις τὸν κόσμον (ch. Wis 9:9 ) parallelized with ὁ λόγος σου (ch. Wis 9:1-2 : see also ch. Wis 16:12 ). In ch. Wis 18:15-16 , the παντοδύναμος λόγος is set forth as an Angel coming down from heaven, and destroying the Egyptians.
	It seems highly probable that the author’s monotheistic views were confused by the admixture of Platonism, and that he regarded Wisdom as a kind of soul of the world. He occasionally puts her for God, occasionally for an attribute of God. But he had not attained that near approach to a  personal view which we shall find in the next step of our enquiry.
	( ε ) The large body of Jews resident in Alexandria were celebrated for their  gnosis , or religious philosophy. The origin of this philosophy must be referred to the mixture of the Jewish religious element with the speculative philosophies of the Greeks, more especially with that of Plato, and with ideas acquired during the captivity from Oriental sources. One of these Alexandrine writers in the second century A.C. was Aristobulus, some fragments of whose works have been preserved to us. He tells us that by the θεία φωνή we are not to understand a ῥητὸν λόγον , but ἔργων κατασκευάς the whole working of God in the creation of the world.
	But the most complete representation of the Judæo-alexandrine gnosis has come down to us in the works of Philo, who flourished cir. A.D. 40 50. It would be out of the province of a note to give a review of the system of Philo: the result only of such review (see Lücke, vol. i. 272 283) will be enough. He identifies the λόγος with the σοφία of God; it is the εἰκὼν θεοῦ (Mangey, vol. i. p. 6 alli [3] . fr.); the ἀρχέτυπος κ . παράδειγμα φωτός , αὐτὸς δὲ οὐδενὶ τῶν γεγονότων ὅμοιος (i. 632): ὁ πρεσβύτερος τῶν γένεσιν εἰληφότων (i. 437): πρεσβύτερος υἱὸς τοῦ τῶν ὄντων πατρός (i. 414): ὁ πρωτόγονος αὐτοῦ , ὁ ἄγγελος πρεσβύτατος , ὡς ἀρχάγγελος πολυώνυμος ὑπάρχων (i. 427): σκιὰ θεοῦ , ᾧ καθάπερ ὀργάνῳ χρησάμενος ἐκοσμοποίει (i. 106): δι ʼ οὗ ὁ κόσμος κατεσκευάσθη (i. 162): τῷ δὲ ἀρχαγγέλῳ κ . πρεσβυτάτῳ λόγῳ δωρεὰν ἐξαίρετον ἔδωκεν ὁ τὰ ὅλα γεννήσας πατήρ , ἵνα μεθόριος στὰς τὸ γενόμενον διακρίνῃ τοῦ πεποιηκότος . ἀγάλλεται δὲ ἐπὶ τῇ δωρεᾷ , … οὔτε ἀγέννητος ὡς ὁ θεὸς ὤν , οὐδὲ γεννητὸς ὡς ὑμεῖς , ἀλλὰ μέσος τῶν ἄκρων , ἀμφοτέροις ὁμηρεύων (i. 501 f.): δύο γάρ , ὡς ἔοικεν , ἱερὰ θεοῦ , ἓν μὲν ὅδε ὁ κόσμος , ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἀρχιερεὺς ὁ πρωτόγονος αὐτοῦ θεῖος λόγος (i. 653): ὁ τοῦ θεοῦ ὕπαρχος (i. 308): περιέχει πάντα καὶ πεπλήρωκεν (ii. 655): δεύτερος θεός , ὅς ἐστιν ἐκείνου λόγος (ii. 625, fragment, from Eusebius, Præp. Evang. vii. 13, vol. iii. p. 545). These instances, the number of which might be much enlarged, will serve to shew how remarkably near to the diction and import of some passages in our Gospel Philo approached in speaking of the λόγος .
	 [3] alli = some cursive mss.
	At the same time there is a  wide and unmistakeable difference between his λόγος and that of the Apostle. He does not distinguish it from the  Spirit of God (Lücke, i. p. 278), nor does he connect it with any Messianic ideas, though these latter were familiar to him. Besides, his views are strangely compounded of Platonism and Judaism. The λόγος seems to be one comprehending, or ruling, the δυνάμεις or ἰδέαι of God, which, although borrowed from Plato, he judaically calls ἄγγελοι , and the λόγος their ἀρχάγγελος . We see by this however how fixed and prepared  the term , and many of its attributes, were in the religious philosophy of the Alexandrine Jews. (On the question whether the λόγος of Philo is to be taken as strictly  personal , see Dorner’s remarks on Lücke, in his Lehre von der Person Christi, i. p. 22 note.)
	( ζ ) Meanwhile the Chaldee paraphrasts of the O.T. had habitually used such expressions as יְקָרָא , or שְׁכִינָה , or מֵימְרָא , ‘the glory,’ or ‘the presence,’ or ‘the word,’ of God, in places where nothing but His own agency could be understood. The last of these the Memra, or word of God, is used in so strictly personal a sense, that there can be little doubt that the Paraphrasts understood by it a divine Person or Emanation.
	( η ) From these elements, the Alexandrine and Jewish views of the λόγος or σοφία of God, there appear to have arisen very early among Christians, both orthodox and heretic, formal expressions, in which these or equivalent terms were used. Of this the Apostle Paul furnishes the most eminent example. His teacher Gamaliel united in his instruction both these elements, and they are very perceptible in the writings of his pupil. But  we do not find in them any direct use of the term  λόγος  ,  as personally applied to the Son of God . This shews him to have spoken mainly according to the Jewish school, among whom, as Origen states, he could find none who held τὸ τὸν λόγον εἶναι τὸν υἱὸν τοῦ θεοῦ (Cont. Cels. ii. 31, vol. i. p. 413).
	( θ ) We find a much nearer approximation to the Alexandrine method of speech in the Epistle to the Hebrews, written evidently by some disciple intimately acquainted with the Alexandrine gnosis (see the opening verses, and especially φέρων τὰ πάντα τῷ ῥήματι τῆς δυνάμεως αὐτοῦ ). But even there  we have not the  λόγος  identified personally with the Lord Jesus Christ , nor indeed  personally spoken of at all , however near some passages may seem to approach to this usage (ch. John 4:12-13 ; Joh 11:3 ).
	( ι ) The Alexandrine gnosis was immediately connected with Ephesus, where the Gospel of John was probably written. Apollos ( Act 18:24 ) came thither  from Alexandria; and Cerinthus is related by Theodoret (Fab. Hær. ii. 3, vol. iv. p. 389) to have studied and formed his philosophic system in Egypt, before coming to Ephesus.
	( κ ) These notices will serve to account for the term  λόγος being already found by St. John framed to his use; and the anti-Gnostic tendency of his writings will furnish an additional reason why he should rescue such important truths as the præ-existence and attributes of the divine λόγος from the perversions which false philosophy had begun to make of them.
	( λ ) In all that has been said in this note, no insinuation has been conveyed that either the Apostle Paul, or the writer to the Hebrews, or John,  adopted in any degree their TEACHING  from the existing philosophies . Their teaching (which is totally distinct from any of those philosophies, as will be shewn in this commentary) is that of the Holy Spirit; and the existing philosophies, with all their follies and inadequacies, must be regarded,  in so far as they by their terms or ideas subserved the work which the Spirit had to do by the Apostles and teachers of Christianity, as so many providential preparations of the minds of men to receive the fuller effulgence of the Truth as it is in Jesus, which shines forth in these Scriptures.
	The substance of this note has been derived from Dr. Lücke’s Commentary, vol. i. p. 249 294: De Wette’s Handbuch, on John 1:1 . Dorner, Lehre von der Person Christi, i. p. 15 ff.: Olshausen, Comm. ii. p. 30 ff.