 5. ] As  light and  life are closely connected ideas, so are  death and  darkness . The whole world, lying in death and in darkness, is the  σκοτία here spoken of: not merely the ἐσκοτωμένοι (Ephesians 4:18 ; see ib. Eph 5:7-8 ), but the  whole mass , with the sole exception (see below, Joh 1:12 ) of ὅσοι ἔλαβον αὐτόν (compare ch. John 3:19 : 1Jn 5:19 ).
	This  φαίνει is not merely the historical present, but describes the whole process of the light of life in the Eternal Word shining in this evil and dark world; both by the O.T. revelations, and (see ch. John 10:16 ; Joh 11:52 ) by all the scattered fragments of light glittering among the thick darkness of heathendom.
	 καὶ  …   κατέλ  . ]  and the darkness comprehended (understood, apprehended)  it not . That this is the meaning, will be clear from the context. John states here as a  general fact, what he afterwards states of the appearance of the Incarnate Word to the chosen people, John 1:11 . The sentences are strictly parallel. τὸ φ . ἐν τῇ σκ . φαίνει [7] εἰς τὰ ἴδια ἦλθεν , and κ . ἡ σκ . αὐτὸ οὐ κατέλ . [8] καὶ οἱ ἴδιοι αὐτὸν οὐ παρέλαβον . In the first, he is speaking of the  whole shining of this light over the world; in the second, of its  historical manifestation to the Jews . In both cases,  the Divine Word was rejected . παρέλαβον is used in the second case as expressing the personal assumption to oneself as a friend or companion: see reff.
	 [7] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	 [8] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	Lücke observes (i. 313), that the almost tragic tone of this verse is prevalent through the Gospel of John and his First Epistle, see ch. John 3:19 ; John 12:37 ff. alli [9] .: and is occasionally found in Paul also, see Romans 1:18 ff.
	 [9] alli = some cursive mss.
	The other interpretation of κατέλαβεν , ‘  overtook ,’ ‘  came upon ’ (for that of ‘  overcame ’ (Orig [10] , Theophyl., Euthym [11] ) is not admissible, the word never importing this), is unobjectionable as far as the  usage of the word is concerned (see ch. John 12:35 : Mar 9:18 ); but yields no sense in the context.
	 [10] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [11] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	The connexion of the two members of our verse by  καί is not, ‘The Light shineth in the darkness,  and therefore (i.e. because darkness is the opposition to light, and they exclude one another) the darkness comprehended it not;’ but, ‘The Light shineth in the darkness,  and yet (notwithstanding that the effect of light in darkness is so great and immediate in the physical world) the darkness comprehended it not:’ see καί below, John 1:11 .