 9. ] The word  ἀληθινόν (see reff.) in this connexion imports  original, ‘archetypal,’ and is used of the true genuine sources and patterns of those things which we find here below only in fragmentary imitations and derivations. Such an  original was the Light here spoken of; but John was only a derived light, not lumen  illuminans , but lumen  illuminatum .
	The construction of this verse has been much disputed. Is  ἐρχόμενον εἰς τ  .   κ  . to be taken with  ἄνθρωπον (as lat [13] syrr cop [14] Orig Exodus 2:0; Exodus 2:0 Epiph Chr Cyr Thl Euthym and most of the ancient Commentators and E. V.), or does it belong to  τὸ φῶς τὸ ἀλ  . ?
	 [13] The Latin versions: an abbreviated way of writing ‘vulg lat-  a b c ’ &c.
	 [14] The Coptic or Memphitic Egyptian version.  Fourth century?
	The former construction can only be defended by a Rabbinical usage, by which כָּל בָּאֵי עוֹלָם means ‘all men’ (Schöttgen, i. 223). But it is very questionable whether John ever speaks thus. Certainly he does not, in any of the passages commonly cited to defend this rendering, ch. John 18:37 (which is spoken by Christ of Himself and His Mission); John 16:21 ; John 16:28 ; John 12:46 . And even if he had thus spoken, how harsh and how unmeaning is the sentence; whether with Euthym [15] we lay an emphasis on ἦν , or with E. V. &c. supply τοῦτο before it. If this latter had been intended, surely it would have been more distinctly expressed; and even when it is supplied, we have in this verse only a less forcible repetition of John 1:4 .
	 [15] Euthymius Zigabenus, 1116
	It seems then that we must join  ἐρχ  .   εἰς τ  .   κ  . with  τ  .   φῶς τ  .   ἀληθ  .
	But even then, three ways of rendering are apparently open to us.
	The first of these, which is that of Socinus, takes  ἐρχόμ  . κ . τ . λ . as meaning, ‘  at its coming into the world .’ This however besides the sense being inconsistent with Joh 1:4 leaves the opening clause without a demonstrative pronoun, as before. Then, secondly,  ἐρχόμενον might seem to be used in the sense in which we frequently have ἐρχόμενος , as a quasi-future, ‘who was, or is, to come:’ see Matthew 11:3 ; Mar 10:30 alli [16] . fr.: ch. John 6:14 ; John 11:27 , in which last two places it is joined, as here, with εἰς τὸν κόσμον . But if this be adopted (which even constructionally is very doubtful), the only sense will be that the true light, &c.  was to come; i.e.  had not yet come; which manifestly is not correct; for it  had come , when John gave his witness; and the whole of these Joh 1:6-13 relate to the time when He  had appeared , and  come to His own.
	 [16] alli = some cursive mss.
	We are driven then to the only legitimate rendering, which is to take ἦν ἐρχόμενον as equivalent to an imperfect  came: this usage being frequent in the N.T., see reff.: i.e. at the time when John bore this witness, the true light which lighteth every man, came was in process of manifesting Himself, into the world.
	Tholuck objects to this construction that ἦν is too far from ἐρχόμενον : but Lücke answers, that ἦσαν and νηστεύοντες are nearly as far separated in Mark 2:18 .
	 ὃ φωτ  .   πάντα ἄνθ  . is a further expansion of  τὸ ἀληθινόν  .