 49. ] The remark was overheard by Nathanael, and recognized as indicating perfect knowledge of his character. The question  πόθ  .   με γιν  . is one of astonishment, but not perhaps yet of suspicion of any thing supernatural. Our Lord’s answer first opens this to him.
	 πρὸ τοῦ κ  .  τ  .  λ  . ] It would be doubtful whether  ὄντα ὑπὸ τ  .   συκ  . belong to  φωνῆσαι or to  εἶδόν σε  , did not Joh 1:51 decide for the latter construction.
	The whole form of our Lord’s answer seems to indicate that the place where Philip called Nathanael was not  now in sight, nor had been. The declaration that Jesus had seen him there, at once brings the conviction which he expresses in the next verse. This would not have been the case, unless the sight had been evidently and unquestionably supernatural: and unless the words ὄντα ὑπὸ τὴν συκῆν involved this. Had Jesus merely seen Nathanael without being seen by him, (De Wette,) or had εἶδόν σε only expressed ‘  I knew thy character ,’ at first sight, ‘  although at a distance ’ (Lücke),  no such immediate conviction would have followed .
	 ὄντα ὑπὸ τὴν συκῆν  , says Wordsw., “is something more than ὑπὸ τῇ συκῇ the accusative indicates retirement thither as well as concealment there, perhaps for purposes of prayer and meditation.” In fact it contains in it, ‘when thou wentest under the fig-tree, and while thou wert there.’
	John 1:50 = ‘Thou art the Messiah:’ see Psalms 2:7 . ch. John 11:27 : Matthew 16:16 ; Luke 22:70 . Olshausen (ii. 77 ff.) maintains that  ὁ υἱ  .   τ  .   θ  . was not a Jewish appellation for the Messiah, on account of the Jews taking up stones to cast at Jesus when He so called Himself, ch. John 10:33 . But as Lücke observes (i. 456, note), it was not for the  mere use of this Name, but for using it in a  close and literal sense which was unintelligible and appeared blasphemous to them,  ἐγὼ κ  .   ὁ πατὴρ ἕν ἐσμεν  , that they wished to stone Him: see note on ch. John 10:36 . It was certainly not so common a name as ‘the Son of David,’ for the Messiah.
	Nathanael can hardly have meant the name in other than its popular meaning; and the synonymous and better known appellation which he adds, confirms this.