 1. ]  ἐν ἀρχῇ = πρὸ τοῦ τὸν κόσμον εἶναι , ch. John 17:5 . The expression is indefinite, and must be interpreted relatively to the matter spoken of. Thus in Acts 11:15 , it is ‘the beginning of the Gospel:’ and by the same principle of interpretation,  here it is  the beginning of all things, on account of the πάντα δι ʼ αὐτ . ἐγ . John 1:3 .
	These words, if they do not  assert , at least  imply , the  eternal præ-existence of the Divine Word. For ἐν ἀρχῇ  ἦν is not said of an  act done ἐν ἀρχῇ (as in Gen 1:1 ), but of a  state existing ἐν ἀρχῇ , and therefore without beginning itself.
	 ἦν  , not equivalent to ἔστιν (see ἐγώ εἰμι , ch. Joh 8:58 alli [4] .), as Euthymius and others have supposed; but Origen has given the true reason for the indefinite past being used, ἦν μὲν κυριώτερον  ἐπὶ τοῦ θεοῦ λόγου τὸ  ἔστιν εἰπεῖν · ἀλλ ʼ ἐπεὶ πρὸς διαφορὰν τῆς ἐνανθρωπήσεως γενομένης ἔν τινι καιρῷ , ἀντὶ τοῦ  ἔστιν τῷ  ἦν ὁ εὐαγγελιστὴς κέχρηται (in Catena, Lücke, p. 296). The existence of an enduring and unlimited state of being, implied in ἦν , is contrasted with ἐγένετο in John 1:3 , and especially in John 1:14 .
	 [4] alli = some cursive mss.
	 καὶ ὁ λ  .   ἦν πρὸς τ  .   θ  . ] The usage of πρός here, as  with (i.e. ‘chez’), is sufficiently borne out by the reff.
	Basil remarks (Lücke, i. 297) that John says πρὸς τὸν θ ., not ἐν τῷ θ ., ἵνα τὸ  ἰδιάζον τῆς ὑποστάσεως παραστήσῃ , … ἵνα μὴ πρόφασιν δῷ τῇ συγχύσει τῆς ὑποστάσεως . Both the inner substantial union, and the distinct personality of the λόγος are here asserted. The former is distinctly repeated in the next words.
	 κ  .   θ  .   ἦν ὁ λ  . ]  and the Word was God. As regards the  form of the sentence, it is strictly parallel with πνεῦμα ὁ θεός , ch. John 4:24 . But the  sense to be conveyed here is as weighty a consideration as the form of the sentence. Had John intended to say, ‘  God was the Word ,’ what meaning could his assertion possibly have conveyed? None other than a contradiction to his last assertion, by which he had distinguished God from the Word. And not only would this be the case, but the assertion would be inconsistent with the whole historical idea of the λόγος , making this term to signify merely an attribute of God, just as when it is said ὁ θεὸς ἀγάπη ἐστίν . Not to mention the unprecedented inversion of subject and predicate which this would occasion; ὁ λόγος  having been the subject before , and again  resumed as the subject afterwards .
	The  rendering of the words being then as above, their  meaning is the next question. The omission of the article before θεός is not  mere usage; it could not have been here expressed, whatever place the words might hold in the sentence. ὁ λόγος ἦν ὁ θεός would give a sense liable to the objections first stated, and destroy the idea of the λόγος altogether. θεός must then be taken as implying  God,  in substance and essence , not ὁ θεός , ‘the Father,’  in Person . It does not = θεῖος , nor is it to be rendered  a God but, as in  σὰρξ ἐγένετο  , σάρξ expresses that  state into which the Divine Word entered by a definite act, so in  θεὸς ἦν  , θεός expresses that  essence which was His ἐν ἀρχῇ : that He was  very God . So that this first verse might be connected thus: the Logos was from eternity, was with God (the Father), and was Himself God.