 18. ] The connexion is: ‘Moses could not give out of the πλήρωμα of grace and truth, for he had no  immediate sight of God, and no man can have: there is but One who can ἐξηγεῖσθαι θεόν , the μονογενὴς υἱός , who is no mere  man , but abides in the bosom of the Father.’
	 θεὸν οὐδ  .   ἑώρ  .   π  . ] The  sight of God here meant, is not only bodily sight (though of that it is true, see Exodus 33:20 ; 1Ti 6:16 ), but  intuitive and  infallible knowledge , which enables Him who has it to declare the nature and will of God: see ch. John 3:11 ; John 6:46 ; John 14:7 .
	The Evangelist speaks in this verse in accordance with the sayings of the gnosis whose phraseology he has adopted: τίς ἑώρακεν αὐτὸν καὶ ἐκδιηγήσεται ; Sir 43:31 .
	 ὁ μον  .   υἱός ] As regards the reading μονογενὴς  θεός  , the authorities for and against it will be found in the digest. It seems to have arisen from a confusion of the contracted forms of writing, Υ [22] and Θ [23] . The question, which reading to adopt, is one which, in the balance of authorities, must be provisionally decided by the consideration that as far as we can see, we should be introducing great harshness into the sentence, and a new and strange term into Scripture, by adopting θεός : a consequence which ought to have no weight whatever where authority is overpowering, but may fairly be weighed where this is not so. The “præstat procliviori ardua” finds in this case a legitimate limit.
	 [22] The CODEX EPHRAEMI, preserved in the Imperial Library at Paris, MS. Gr. No. 9. It is a Codex rescriptus or palimpsest, consisting of the works of Ephraem the Syrian written over the MS. of extensive fragments of the Old and New Testaments 2 . It seems to have come to France with Catherine de’ Medici, and to her from Cardinal Nicolas Ridolfi. Tischendorf thinks it probable that he got it from Andrew John Lascaris, who at the fall of the Eastern Empire was sent to the East by Lorenzo de’ Medici to preserve such MSS. as had escaped the ravages of the Turks. This is confirmed by the later corrections (C 3 ) in the MS., which were evidently made at Constantinople 3 . But from the form of the letters, and other peculiarities, it is believed to have been written at Alexandria, or at all events, where the Alexandrine dialect and method of writing prevailed. Its text is perhaps the  purest example of the Alexandrine text, holding a place about midway between the Constantinopolitan MSS. and most of those of the Alexandrine recension. It was edited very handsomely in uncial type, with copious dissertations, &c., by Tischendorf, in 1843. He assigns to it an age at least equal to A, and places it also in the  fifth century . Corrections were written in, apparently in the sixth and ninth centuries: these are respectively cited as C 2 , C 3 .
	 [23] The CODEX EPHRAEMI, preserved in the Imperial Library at Paris, MS. Gr. No. 9. It is a Codex rescriptus or palimpsest, consisting of the works of Ephraem the Syrian written over the MS. of extensive fragments of the Old and New Testaments 2 . It seems to have come to France with Catherine de’ Medici, and to her from Cardinal Nicolas Ridolfi. Tischendorf thinks it probable that he got it from Andrew John Lascaris, who at the fall of the Eastern Empire was sent to the East by Lorenzo de’ Medici to preserve such MSS. as had escaped the ravages of the Turks. This is confirmed by the later corrections (C 3 ) in the MS., which were evidently made at Constantinople 3 . But from the form of the letters, and other peculiarities, it is believed to have been written at Alexandria, or at all events, where the Alexandrine dialect and method of writing prevailed. Its text is perhaps the  purest example of the Alexandrine text, holding a place about midway between the Constantinopolitan MSS. and most of those of the Alexandrine recension. It was edited very handsomely in uncial type, with copious dissertations, &c., by Tischendorf, in 1843. He assigns to it an age at least equal to A, and places it also in the  fifth century . Corrections were written in, apparently in the sixth and ninth centuries: these are respectively cited as C 2 , C 3 .
	 ὁ ὢν εἰς τ  .   κόλπον ] The expression must not be understood as referring to the custom of reclining ἐν τῷ κόλπῳ , as in ch. John 13:23 : for by this explanation confusion is introduced into the imagery, and the real depth of the truth hidden. The expression signifies, as Chrysostom observes, συγγένεια καὶ ἑνότης τῆς οὐσίας : and is derived from the fond and intimate union of children and parents.
	The  present participle, as in ch. John 3:13 , is used to signify  essential truth , without any particular regard to time.
	On the use of εἰς , see reff. It is not ‘put for’ ἐν : indeed it would be well for the student to bear in mind as a general rule, that  no word or expression is ever ‘put for’ another: words are the index of thoughts, and where an unusual construction is found, it points to some reason in the mind of the writer for using it, which reason is lost in the ordinary shallow method of accounting for it by saying that it is ‘put for’ some other word. So here, εἰς τὸν κόλπον is not = ἐν τῷ κόλπῳ , but is a carrying on of the thought expressed in John 1:1 , by πρὸς τὸν θεόν : it is a pregnant construction, involving in it the begetting of the Son and His being the λόγος of the Father, His proceeding forth from God. It is a similar expression, on the side of His Unity with the Father, to εἰμὶ παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ , on the side of His manifestation to men. We have similar expressions, uniting the verb of rest with the preposition of motion, in ἐς θρόνους ἕζοντο , Od. δ . 51; εἰς ἀνάγκην κείμεθ ʼ, Eur. Iph. [24] . 624: see Kühner, Gr. Gr. § 622.
	 [24] CODEX BORGIANUS 1, in the Library of the Propaganda at Rome, of the  fifth century (probably). Contains fragments of Luke and John with a Sahidic version. The portions John 6:28-67 ; Joh 7:6 to Joh 8:31 were published by A. A. Georgi, at Rome, in 1789: and examined by Tischendorf. This Græco-Egyptian MS. also contains a portion of St. Luke, Luk 22:20 to Luke 23:20 , which was first brought to my notice by Dr. Tregelles, as being mentioned by Zoega in his “Catalogus Codicum Copticorum MSS. qui in Museo Borgiano Velitris adservantur.” My brother, the Rev. Bradley H. Alford, happening to be at Rome, was fortunate enough to obtain permission to collate this ancient fragment, and sent me the collation, from which the readings were, in Edn. 4 of this Volume, first published. Two other portions of the same MS. were once in the possession of C. G. Woide and were published by Ford in the Appendix to the Codex Alexandrinus, Oxford, 1799. They comprise Luk 12:15 to Luke 13:32 ; John 8:33-42 .
	 ἐκεῖνος ] ‘  He, and none else:’ an emphatic exclusive expression.
	 ἐξηγήσατο ]  declared, better than ‘  hath declared ,’ as E. V. ἐξηγέομαι , ἐξήγησις , and ἐξηγητής (Genesis 41:8 ; Gen 41:24 ), are technical terms used of the declaration of divine matters. Wetstein has collected abundance of passages in illustration of this usage. See also Müller’s Eumenides, Excursus D, on the ἐξηγηταί . But Lücke (and I think rightly) believes it more in accordance with the simple style of John to take the word here in its ordinary, not its technical meaning.
	The object to be supplied after the verb is most likely αὐτόν , i.e. τὸν θεόν . De Wette thinks this too definite, and supplies ‘that which He has seen,’ as in ch. John 3:11 . Lücke supplies τὴν χάριτα κ . ἀλ ., as  being ‘that which He has seen;’ but De Wette well observes that χάρις is more matter of revelation  by act , than of ἐξήγησις . Euthymius’s explanation, ἐδίδαξεν ὅτι θεὸν οὐδεὶς ἑώρακε πώποτε , is certainly wrong. See Matthew 11:27 .