 13. ] The Jews grounded their claim to be children of God on their descent from Abraham. John here negatives any such claim, and asserts the exclusive divine birth of all who become children of God by faith. It is to be noticed that the conjunctions here are not the merely disjunctive ones οὔτε … οὔτε , which would necessitate the ranging the clauses as co-ordinate and parallel, but  οὐδὲ  …   οὐδέ  , which rise in climax from one clause to another, ‘  not ἐξ αἱμάτων ,  nor yet ἐκ θελ . σαρκ .  nor yet ἐκ θελ . ἀνδ .,  but ἐκ θεοῦ ’ (see examples of οὔτε , Matthew 12:32 ; of οὐδέ , Mat 6:26 ). Many interpreters have seen in θέλημα ἀνδρός the male, and in θέλημα σαρκός the female side of human concupiscence (so Augustine, Theophylact, &c.); or in the former the higher and more conscious, in the latter the lower and animal side (Bleek, Luthardt). Besides the above, other objections lie against both these interpretations, (1) that σάρξ is never so used ( Eph 5:29 is no instance in point); (2) that θέλημα is ascribed to  both . Euthymius seems to give the right interpretation: εἰπὼν δὲ ὅτι οὐκ ἐξ αἱμάτων , ἐπήγαγε φανερώτερον ὅτι οὐδὲ ἐκ θελήματος σαρκός · εἶτα καὶ τοῦτο τελεώτερον ἐφηρμήνευσε , προσθεὶς ὅτι οὐκ ἐκ θελήματος ἀνδρός · αἷμα γὰρ καὶ σάρξ , ὁ ἀνήρ · θέλημα δὲ νῦν νοεῖ τὴν ἐπιθυμίαν , τὴν συνουσίαν : in loc. ii. 421. Or perhaps this may be earned somewhat further, and we may better satisfy the climax by regarding the ἐξ αἱμάτων as indicating the mere phenomena of physical generation wherever found: then rising to ἐκ θελήματος σαρκός , the instigation of that capacity by sexual desire: then rising still higher to the most exalted instance of that desire, ἐκ θελήματος ἀνδρός .
	The plural usage of  αἱμάτων is only found in one other place in this signification, Eurip. Ion 693 Dind., 705 Herm., ἔχει δόλον τύχαν θ ʼ ὁ παῖς | ἄλλων τραφεὶς ἀφ ʼ αἱμάτων . The other usage of the plural, for  murder , is frequent in the LXX and the classics.
	 ἀνήρ  , in the sense of  man generally, is not uncommon; we have in plur. πατὴρ ἀνδρῶν τε θεῶν τε , in Hom. passim; and in sing. Il. ν . 321; σ . 432, 433.
	 ἐκ  , remarks De Wette, denotes, the first time, the  material the second and third time, the  mediate cause, the fourth time, the  immediate cause, of the generation.