 3. ]  πάντα = τὰ Πάντα (1 Corinthians 8:6 ; Col 1:16 ), = ὁ κόσμος , John 1:10 . This parallelism of itself refutes the Socinian interpretation of πάντα , ‘all Christian graces and virtues,’ ‘the whole moral world.’ But the history of the term λόγος forbids such an explanation entirely. For Philo (i. 162) says εὑρήσεις αἴτιον μὲν αὐτοῦ ( τοῦ κόσμου ) τὸν θεόν , ὑφ ʼ οὗ γέγονεν · ὕλην δέ , τὰ τέσσαρα στοιχεῖα , ἐξ ὧν συνεκράθη ·  ὄργανον δέ  ,   λόγον θεοῦ  ,   δι  ʼ   οὗ κατεσκευάσθη  : see also Colossians 1:16 , and Hebrews 1:2 . Olshausen observes, that we never read in Scripture that ‘Christ made the world;’ but ‘the Father made the world διὰ the Son,’ or ‘the world was made ὑπό the Father, and διὰ the Son:’ because the Son  never works of Himself , but always  as the revelation of the Father; His work is the Father’s  will , and the Father has no Will, except the Son, who is  all His will ( ἐν ᾧ εὐδόκησεν ). The Christian Fathers rightly therefore rejected the semi-Arian formula, ‘The Son was begotten by an act of the Father’s will;’ for He is  that Will Himself .
	 καὶ χωρ  .   αὐτ  . ] This addition is not merely a Hebraistic parallelism, but a distinct denial of the eternity and uncreatedness of matter as held by the Gnostics. They set  matter , as a separate existence, over against God, and made it the origin of evil: but John excludes any such notion. Nothing was made without Him (the λόγος ); all matter, and  implicitly evil itself, in the deep and inscrutable purposes of creation (for it οὐκ ἦν ἐν τῇ ἀρχῇ ἀλλὰ  γέγονεν ),  δι  ʼ   αὐτοῦ ἐγένετο  .
	The punctuation at the end of the verse is uncertain, if we regard solely manuscript authority, but rests on the sense of the passage, which is rendered weak, and inconsistent with analogy, by placing the period after οὐδὲ ἕν :  weak , because in that case we must render ‘That which was made by Him was life (i.e. having life), and that life was the light of men;’ but  how was that life, i.e. that living creation which was made by Him, the light of men?  inconsistent with grammatical analogy , for John never uses γενέσθαι ἐν for ‘to be made by.’ [But Cyr-Alex [5] , who adopts this punctuation, renders the passage thus: ‘that which was made, therein was life.’] Besides which, John’s usage of beginning a sentence with ἐν and a demonstrative pron. should have its weight: cf. ch. John 13:35 ; John 15:8 ; Joh 16:26 : 1 John 2:3-5 ; 1 John 3:0 :(8), 10, 16, 19, 24; Joh 4:2 alli [6] . fr. Compare also ἐν τούτῳ ἡ ἀλήθεια οὐκ ἔστιν , 1 John 2:4 , ἁμαρτία ἐν αὐτῷ οὐκ ἔστιν , ib. 1 John 3:5 . I have determined therefore for the ordinary punctuation. It is said to have been first adopted owing to an abuse of the passage by the Macedonian heretics, who maintained that if the exclusion was  complete , the Holy Spirit can also not have been without His creating power, i.e. was created by Him. But this would be refuted without including ὃ γέγονεν , for the Holy Spirit  ἦν  , not  ἐγένετο  .
	 [5]  Alex. Cyril, Bp. of Alexandria, 412 444
	 [6] alli = some cursive mss.