14. sanctified—Those
	inseparably connected with the people of God are hallowed
	thereby, so that the latter may retain the connection without
	impairing their own sanctity (compare  :-); nay, rather imparting to the former externally some degree
	of their own hallowed character, and so preparing the way for the
	unbeliever becoming at last sanctified inwardly by faith. 
	by . . . by—rather, "in
	. . . in"; that is, in virtue of the marriage tie between them. 
	by the husband—The
	oldest manuscripts read, "by the brother." It is the fact
	of the husband being a "brother," that is, a Christian,
	though the wife is not so, that sanctifies or hallows the union. 
	else . . . children
	unclean—that is, beyond the hallowed pale of God's people: in
	contrast to "holy," that is, all that is within the
	consecrated limits [CONYBEARE
	and HOWSON]. The
	phraseology accords with that of the Jews, who regarded the heathen
	as "unclean," and all of the elect nation as "holy,"
	that is, partakers of the holy covenant. Children were included in
	the covenant, as God made it not only with Abraham, but with his
	"seed after" him ( :-). So the faith of one Christian parent gives to the children
	a near relationship to the Church, just as if both parents were
	Christians (compare Romans 11:16).
	Timothy, the bearer of this Epistle, is an instance in point (Romans 11:16- :). Paul appeals to the Corinthians as recognizing the
	principle, that the infants of heathen parents would not be
	admissible to Christian baptism, because there is no faith on the
	part of the parents; but where one parent is a believer, the children
	are regarded as not aliens from, but admissible even in infancy as
	sharers in, the Christian covenant: for the Church presumes that the
	believing parent will rear the child in the Christian faith. Infant
	baptism tacitly superseded infant circumcision, just as the Christian
	Lord's day gradually superseded the Jewish sabbath, without our
	having any express command for, or record of, transference. The
	setting aside of circumcision and of sabbaths in the case of the
	Gentiles was indeed expressly commanded by the apostles and Paul, but
	the substitution of infant baptism and of the Lord's day were tacitly
	adopted, not expressly enacted. No explicit mention of it occurs till
	IRENÆUS in the third
	century; but no society of Christians that we read of disputed its
	propriety till fifteen hundred years after Christ. Anabaptists would
	have us defer baptism till maturity as the child cannot understand
	the nature of it. But a child may be made heir of an estate: it is
	his, though incapable at the time of using or comprehending
	its advantage; he is not hereafter to acquire the title and claim
	to it: he will hereafter understand his claim, and be capable of
	employing his wealth: he will then, moreover, become responsible for
	the use he makes of it [ARCHBISHOP
	WHATELY].