Romans 13:6.  For, for this cause ye pay tribute also.  This clause is indicative, not imperative (though the form in the Greek admits of either sense). The fact of tribute paying was universal, and ‘for’ seems to introduce a reason for this fact, rather than a motive for an exhortation. The connection is more doubtful. Some join ‘for this cause also’ with Romans 13:1-4, making this verse parallel with Romans 13:5 as the statement of smother result of the divine appointment. Meyer connects it immediately with Romans 13:5, finding here a result of the necessity there stated, as well as a confirmation of it. But, as that verse is an inference from what precedes, this view implies a reference to the entire discussion. ‘For’ introduces the fact of paying tribute as a proof that obedience is due for the reasons assigned in Romans 13:5. ‘Also,’ suggests the correspondence with other acts of obedience. The two views may be thus paraphrased: ‘Besides the necessity of obedience as just set forth (Romans 13:5), the authority of the magistrates is manifested in the fact of universal payment of tribute.’ The other view would be: ‘As a proof that it is necessary to obey for these two reasons (Romans 13:5), I adduce from among the duties prompted by these reasons (“for this cause”) one (“also”) universally performed, namely the paying of tribute.’
	 For they  (  i.e.,  the magistrates)  are  the ministering servants of God. The emphasis rests on the word rendered ‘ministering servants,’ which is a stronger one than that used in Romans 13:4. It belongs to a class of words applied to the temple service of the Jewish priests (see marginal references). Our word ‘liturgy’ is derived from the same term. ‘According, those who rule, in so far as they serve the divine counsel and will, and employ their strength and activity to this end, are to be regarded as persons whose administration has the character of a divinely consecrated  sacrificial service,  a    priestly  nature’ (Meyer).
	 Attending continually upon (lit, ‘for’)  this very thing. Godet joins ‘for this very thing’ with the preceding clause, but this seems forced. ‘This very thing’ may refer either to the payment of taxes, or to the entire ‘ministry’ of the magistrates. The wider thought of Romans 13:7 favors the latter view, which is preferable for the further reason that the participle, ‘attending continually,’ suggests a moral idea. ‘You pay taxes because they are necessary to maintain rulers, and it is necessary to maintain rulers because of the nature of the office, as ministering servants of God, whose constant duty it is to be a terror to evildoers and a praise to those who do what is beneficial.’
	