6. Translate, "Who
	subsisting (or existing, namely, originally: the Greek
	is not the simple substantive verb, 'to be') in the form of
	God (the divine essence is not meant: but the external
	self-manifesting characteristics of God, the form shining
	forth from His glorious essence). The divine nature had infinite
	BEAUTY in itself, even
	without any creature contemplating that beauty: that beauty was 'the
	form of God'; as 'the form of a servant' ( :-), which is in contrasted opposition to it, takes for granted
	the existence of His human nature, so 'the form of God' takes
	for granted His divine nature [BENGEL],
	Compare John 5:37; John 17:5;
	Colossians 1:15, 'Who is the IMAGE
	of the invisible God' at a time before 'every creature,' Colossians 1:15- :, esteemed (the same Greek verb as in Colossians 1:15- :) His being on an equality with God no (act of)
	robbery" or self-arrogation; claiming to one's self what
	does not belong to him. ELLICOTT,
	WAHL, and others have
	translated, "A thing to be grasped at," which would
	require the Greek to be harpagma, whereas harpagmos
	means the act of seizing. So harpagmos means in the
	only other passage where it occurs, PLUTARCH
	[On the Education of Children, 120]. The same insuperable
	objection lies against ALFORD'S
	translation, "He regarded not as self-enrichment (that
	is, an opportunity for self-exaltation) His equality with
	God." His argument is that the antithesis (Colossians 1:15- :) requires it, "He used His equality with God as an
	opportunity, not for self-exaltation, but for self-abasement, or
	emptying Himself." But the antithesis is not between His
	being on an equality with God, and His emptying Himself;
	for He never emptied Himself of the fulness of His Godhead, or His
	"BEING on an equality with God"; but between His
	being "in the FORM (that is, the outward glorious
	self-manifestation) of God," and His "taking on Him the
	form of a servant," whereby He in a great measure emptied
	Himself of His precedent "form," or outward
	self-manifesting glory as God. Not "looking on His own things"
	(Philippians 2:4), He, though existing
	in the form of God, He esteemed it no robbery to be on an equality
	with God, yet made Himself of no reputation. "Being on an
	equality with God, is not identical with subsisting in the form of
	God"; the latter expresses the external characteristics,
	majesty, and beauty of the Deity, which "He emptied Himself of,"
	to assume "the form of a servant"; the former, "HIS
	BEING," or NATURE,
	His already existing STATE OF
	EQUALITY with God, both the Father and the Son having the same
	ESSENCE. A glimpse of Him
	"in the form of God," previous to His incarnation, was
	given to Moses (Exodus 24:10;
	Exodus 24:11), Aaron, &c.