 22 .]  Thou seest (better not a question: in which case the καί of Jam 2:23 does not follow so naturally as when we couple the direct verb βλέπεις with the direct verb ἐπληρώθη )  that (not, “  how ,” as E.V.: it is not the manner in which, nor even “how” in the sense of ‘  how that ,’ which is meant. The assertion is, that the inference is indubitable, that the fact was as stated)  faith (the art. is abstract here, not possessive, as αὐτοῦ being expressed below shews)  wrought (at the time, ‘was working,’ imperf.)  with his works (  τοῖς ἕργοις again categorical, the work in the example being but one),  and by (  out of , as the ground and source)  works (again categorical; the general proposition proved by the particular case. Doubtless this second time it  might be ‘by his works, his faith,’ &c.: but the other is more like St. James, who is singularly given to introduce abstract propositions as applicable to particular cases)  faith (see above)  was made complete (in one act, once for all: not imperf. as συνήργει , but aor.: not, as again many Commentators, even Bengel and De Wette, and so Calvin, “quod vera esse inde comprobetur;” an impossible meaning, and very far from the context of the Apostle’s argument; which is, that faith is developed and brought to perfection by obedience: see below on James 2:26 . And hence also is it evident, how faith συνήργει τοῖς ἔργοις ἀυτοῦ . By the Apostle’s own comparison, James 2:26 , faith is the body, obedience the spirit: faith without obedience is dead, until obedience, the spirit, sets faith in motion: then faith, like the limbs of the body, moves with and works with the acts of obedience. Which is prior in time, which the ground of the other, is a point not touched by St. James at all. Pool collects well in his Synops. ad loc., the opinions of others: “Opera autem fidem perficiunt ratione operationis et consummationis, quum per opera fides ad maturitatem pervenit, quomodo arbor perfecta sit quum ita excrevit ut fructum ferat, Numbers 17:8 ; et peccatum perficitur, Jac. James 1:15 , quum in habitum evasit … Fides tum demum consummata redditur, postquam bonos fructus protulit.” But when he goes on to say, “Fides est causa: opera, effectus. Causa autem non perficitur a suo effectu, sed perfecta declaratur: ut fructus boni arborem bonum non efficiunt, sed indicant,” he is travelling out of the record, and giving meanings unknown to this passage):