 14 .]  What is the profit (arising from that to be mentioned: the resulting profit),  my brethren, if (so ἐάν , after τί ὠφεληθήσεται , Matthew 16:26 ; 1Co 13:3 )  any man say (there is no emphasis on λέγῃ , as many (Vorst, Piscator, Wolf, Baumgarten, Pott, Stier) have supposed: both its place in the sentence, after πίστιν , forbids this, and more decisively still the context, in which the whole argument proceeds on the hypothesis of his  possessing faith: and in James 2:19 , faith is actually ascribed to the τίς . At the same time it is not to be wholly passed over, that the Apostle has written not ἔχῃ , but λέγῃ ἔχειν . While this does not imply any want of genuineness in the faith, it perhaps slightly distinguishes the possession of such faith from the absolute πίστιν ἔχειν : or, as Huther, belongs to the dramatic form of the hypothesis, in which the man is introduced boasting of and appealing to his faith)  that he has faith (no stress to be laid on the failure of the art. before πίστιν , as is done by Schneckenburger, “Recte articulo caret, quum non habeat τὴν πίστιν .” This is sufficiently refuted by St. Paul’s similar anarthrous use of πίστις , where it is spoken of in the highest sense, and by our Lord’s command, ἔχετε πίστιν θεοῦ , Mar 11:22 )  but have not works (i. e. those acts in his life which are proofs and fruits of faith: not mere ceremonial works: see De Wette’s remarks cited above)  ? (a note of interrogation, not a comma, is to be placed here. The sentence contains two distinct but connected questions: ‘What is the profit, if’ &c.? and, ‘Can’ &c.? Otherwise we leave τἱ τὸ ὄφελος insulated, and make μὴ δύναται stand unnaturally in an interrogative apodosis)  Can  (his) faith (  ἡ , merely because, by the hypothesis λέγῃ πίστιν ἔχειν , the πίστις is now become definite, is appropriated, according to the general rule by which that which has been anarthrously introduced at the first mention, has the art. when next mentioned: not as Bed [7] , “fides ilia, quam vos habere dicitis:” nor as Theile, “quæ non habetur revera sed dicitur tantummodo et jactatur”)  save him (see for  σῶσαι , ch. James 1:21 .  αὐτόν is noticeable, as confining the question within the limits of the hypothesis, by making this particular man, who has faith and not works, the object of the question, and not τινα , any, or every man. Here, and not in λέγῃ , nor in ἡ πίστις , lies the true key to the nullity of the faith in question)  ?
	 [7]  Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.