 1 .]  My brethren, do not (  ἔχετε is not, as Schneckenburger, al., interrogative, but imperative, as ch. James 1:16 ; James 3:1 . The interrogative with μή may not always require a negative answer, but it always implies a doubt as to the fact questioned: ‘Surely.… not …?’ e. g. μήτι οὗτός ἐστιν ὁ χριστός : “Surely this cannot be the Christ?” John 4:29 ; μὴ πλείονα σημεῖα ποιήσει ; “Surely he will not do more signs?” John 7:31 ; &c. See Winer, § 57. 3,  b. And this clearly cannot be the case here)  in respectings of persons (  ἐν , ‘in,’ i. e. in the practice of, in the midst of: see on ἔχετε below. The subst. is plur., to point out the various kinds and occasions of the fault. The fault itself, as here intended, is easily explained by the context, where an example is taken of one kind of it. Theile says well that it is, “iniquitas singulos Christianos non virtute sua christians, sed fortuna qualitatibusque externis metiendi atque secundum hanc normam alios aliis præferendi.” Notice, that ἐν προσωπολ . is put first, as carrying the weight of the dehortation, ἔχειν τὴν πίστιν following, as matter of course and existing fact)  hold (  ἔχετε has been taken wrongly: e. g. by Grot., “detinere velut captivam et inefficacem,” = κατέχειν in the saying of St. Paul in Romans 1:18 , τῶν τὴν ἀλήθειαν ἐν ἀδικίᾳ κατεχόντων : by Pott, as ἔχειν τινὰ ἐν ὀργῇ , ἐν αἰτίαις , ἐν ἐπιγνώσει , as Romans 1:28 , explaining it “religiosis partibus nimium studere,” which however this construction would hardly bear.  ἔχειν is simply to have or to hold, as ever in St. James, cf. ch. James 1:4 ; James 3:14 ; and see reff.)  the faith (not merely ‘faith in,’ but  the faith of , thus setting before them more forcibly the utter inconsistency of such respect of persons with the service of Christ)  of our Lord Jesus Christ , (  the Lord )  of glory (such I believe, with most Commentators, to be the construction of τῆς δόξης , though it is somewhat harsh and unusual. Others have been proposed, but all of them are more objectionable still: e. g. by Erasm. (“Nolite facere discrimen personarum juxta rerum mundanarum æstimationem”), and Calvin (“ex opinione”), as if it were ἐν δόξῃ προσωπολημψίας or - ῶν : by Bengel (“Est appositio, ut ipse Christus dicatur ἡ δόξα , gloria, cf. Luke 2:32 ; Isaiah 40:5 ; Ephesians 1:17 ; 1 Peter 4:14 ;” none of which places justify the idea, seeing that in the two former a genitive follows δόξα , and the two latter rather support the common view): by Laurentius, who unites τῆς δόξης with χριστοῦ (“Christus gloriæ = Christus gloriosus”): finally by Huther, who would join τῆς δόξης with τὴν πίστιν (differing however from Grot. who doing this had made τοῦ κυρίου dependent on it, τὴν πίστιν τῆς δόξης τοῦ κυρίου , and from Gataker and Hottinger, who also doing it, make it = τὴν πίστιν ἔνδοξον ), making it a gen. of the object, and τοῦ κυρ . ἡμ . Ἰ . χρ . a gen. of the subject the faith, resting on our Lord Jesus Christ, in the (future) glory, i. e. τὴν μέλλουσαν δόξαν ἀποκαλυφθῆναι εἰς ἡμᾶς , Romans 8:18 . And, he adds, this belief in the glory which shall be revealed is the more naturally mentioned here, because of the contrast between it and the passing glory of this world’s pomp. Exactly: but that contrast is just as vivid on the common hypothesis. This last, complicated and harsh as it is, seems to me the only admissible one of all these interpretations. But it is surely far better, either to govern τῆς δόξης by κυρίου , as a second genitive, or to regard it as the epithetal genitive which so constantly follows the mention of the divine Name, as ὁ θεὸς τῆς εἰρήνης and the like. Both these are abundantly justified: see reff. Huther’s objection to the first, that the full name Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ entirely completes the idea, and forbids another genitive following, is not decisive: just for the same reason that the full Name is given, viz. to make the contrast more solemn and striking, is the additional title τῆς δόξης given, to increase still further that solemnity. It is to be again noticed, how expressly St. James grounds Christian practice on the faith of Christ, in all its fulness. The θρησκεία just spoken of is here taken up and enlarged on; but its root and ground is πίστις , and that, ἡ πίστις τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ τῆς δόξης ).