 19 .] Still addressed to the same soli-fidian, but now directly, and not in the person of the ἀλλ ʼ ἐρεῖ τις . This is better than to suppose the τις still speaking; on account of the length of argumentation before the second person singular is dropped, and the analogy of the two arguments drawn from Abraham and Rahab, both of which most naturally come, as the latter on any view does, from the Apostle himself.  Thou believest (better without an interrogation: see John 16:31 , note)  that God is one (or with the reading εἷς θεός , ‘that there is one God.’ The Apostle selects, from all points of dogmatic belief, that one which stands at the head of the creed of Jews and Christians alike. Cf. especially Deuteronomy 6:4 ; Nehemiah 9:6 ; Mark 12:29 ; Mark 12:32 ; Romans 3:30 ; 1 Corinthians 8:4 ; 1 Corinthians 8:6 ; ch. James 4:12 ; and the Shepherd of Hermas, ii. 1, p. 914, πρῶτον πάντων πίστευσον ὅτι εἷς ἐστιν ὁ θεός . De Wette and Wiesinger have noticed that the construction with ὅτι after πιστεύεις instead of εἰς or ἐν , implies that merely a theoretical faith is spoken of. But against this view there are two objections: 1. that εἰς or ἐν could hardly have been used in this case, where the existence (  εἷς θεός ) or the unity ( εἷς ὁ θεός ) of God is spoken of as the object of belief: 2. that ὅτι after πιστεύω does undoubtedly elsewhere express the highest kind of realizing faith: e. g. Mark 11:23-24 ; John 6:69 ; John 11:27 ; John 11:42 ; John 14:10-11 ; John 17:8 ; John 17:21 ; Joh 20:31 al.):  thou doest well (i. e. either understood simply,‘so far is well:’ ‘it is a good faith, as far as it goes:’ or understood ironically, as Calv. al., “ac si dixisset. Hoc magnum est, infra diabolos subsidere:” only that “  infra diab.” is further than the text assumes: rather, ‘diabolis, quod ad fidem, æquari.’ The former seems preferable; it is hardly likely that the Apostle would speak slightingly even ‘argumenti causa,’ of so fundamental an article of the faith): the  dæmons also (not, the  dæmoniacs , as Wetst., though his explanation is specious, “qui per exorcismos et pronuntiationem nominum Dei Hebræorum sanari dicuntur:” nor as Schneckenburger, al., the  dæmons in the possessed , who trembled at the sacred Name: but simply, as usually, the evil spirits)  believe (the verb is purposely used absolutely: not merely, ‘believe this truth,’ but, ‘  thus far, are believers in common with thyself’), and (not to be diluted into ἀλλὰ καί , as Pott, or “  atqui ,” as Theile: the keenness of the sarcasm lies in the simple copula)  shudder (  φρίσσω , properly of the hair standing on end with terror. Their belief does nothing for them but certify to them their own misery. “Hoc, præter exspectationem lectoris additum, magnam vim habet.” Bengel).