 25 .]  The example of Rahab . Various reasons have been assigned for this example being added. Bed [8] says, “Ne se causarentur opera tanti patris Abrahæ imitari non valere, præsertim cum nullus eos modo cogeret Deo filios offerre perimendos, … addit et mulieris exemplum, mulieris criminosæ, mulieris alienigenæ, quæ tamen per opera misericordiæ, per officium hospitalitatis, etiam cum periculo vitæ suæ Dei famulis exhibitum, justificari a peccatis meruit” &c. Grotius, “Abrahami exemplum Hebræis ad Christum conversis sufficere debebat, sed quia etiam alienigenis scribebat, adjunxit exemplum fœminæ extraneæ:” and similarly Hofmann, Schriftb. i. 557. Schneckenburger, “Novum additur exemplum e sexu muliebri sumptum:” and so Bengel, “Post virum ponitur mulier: nam viros et mulieres appellat,” ch. James 4:4 (see note there). When Delitzsch, on Hebrews 11:31 , assigns as a reason that  der Paulinismus had already used this example to prove justification  sola ex fide , he does not necessarily assume the later date for our Epistle. See the whole matter discussed in the Prolegomena.  And (the  δέ brings out the contrast of the example, again affirming the Apostle’s proposition, to the ἐκ πίστεως μόνον , which has been just denied. Huther understands the δέ as bringing out the dissimilarity between the examples implied in πόρνη )  in like manner (with Abraham)  was not Rahab the harlot (not “caupona” or “hospita,” as Grot., not “idololatra,” as Rosenmüller, but to be taken literally: see on Heb 11:31 )  justified by works, when she received (not necessarily “  clam excepit ,” as Theile, see reff. It may be so, but the  word does not express it. The word in Heb. is δεξαμένη )  the messengers ( κατασκόπους , Heb 11:31 ),  and thrust them forth (in haste and fear. Joshua 2:15-16 ;  ἐκβαΛλειν is not simply ‘emittere:’ see reff.)  by another way (viz. διὰ τῆς θυρίδος , Jos 2:15 LXX. For the local dative, see Romans 4:12 ; Revelation 22:14 ; and Winer, § 31. 9)?
	 [8] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.