 4 .] (Now comes the apodosis in the form of a question)  did ye not (in the case supposed)  doubt (such is the constant sense of  διακρίνομαι in the N. T. throughout (reff.), except in two passages, Acts 11:2 ; Jude 1:9 , where it means “disputing,” a sense which cannot enter here (on Jude 1:22 , see there). And here, the sense seems very good: ‘Did ye not, in making such distinction between rich and poor, become of the number of those who doubt respecting their faith, ch. Jam 1:6 ? Your faith abolishes such distinction: you set it up in practice. You are not then whole in that faith.’ Various other explanations have been given, which Huther enumerates thus:  διακρίνεσθαι 1. = “  separare :” thus Schulthess, Semler, Erasm. Schmid, al., with the verb either passive, “Nonne inter vos ipsos estis discreti et separati?” or middle, “Nonne vos discernitis inter vos ipsos?” 2. = “  discrimen facere :” a. the verb  active , and that, α .  interrogative : “Nonne discrimen fecistis apud vos ipsos?” so Laurentius, Grot., Wolf, Hottinger, Knapp: thus ἐν ἑαυτοῖς = ἐν ἀλλήλοις : Schneckenburger however gives it “in animis vestris,” and makes “discrimen facere” to pass into an act of individual judgment, “statuere:” β .  negative : “Then ye have not made a sound distinction in yourselves:” so Grashof: b. the verb  passive , “Inter vos ipsos non estis discriminati, N. E. cessat piorum et impiorum differentia,” Oeder. 3. =  “judicare:” a. the verb  active : and that, α .  interrogative : “Nonne judicastis, deliberastis ipsi?” i. e. are ye not yourselves persuaded how wrong this is? Augusti:) β .  negative : “Non discrevistis justa deliberatione, considerantia et æstimatione, quid tribuendum esset pauperi potius vel certe non minus quam diviti,” Bengel (Luther combines this rendering with that under (2): und bedenket es nicht recht, sondern ihr werdet Richter, und macht bösen Unterschied): here also comes in the explanation of Œc.: τὸ διακριτικὸν ὑμῶν διεφθείρατε , μηδεμίαν συζήτησιν ποιήσαντες πότερον τιμητέον , … ἀλλ ʼ οὕτως ἀδιακρίτως κ . ἐν προσωποληψίᾳ τὸν μὲν ἐτιμήσατε … τὸν δὲ ἠτιμάσατε : b. the verb  passive : and that, α .  interrogative : “Nonne vos in conscientiis dijudicati, h. e. convicti estis?” Paræus: β .  negative : “Et dijudicati inter vos ipsos non estis ut judicastis secundum prava ratiocinia vestra,” Heisen. Cajetan, somewhat differently, “Hæc faciendo non estis judicati in vobis ipsis, sed estis judicati in vestibus et divitis et pauperis:” laying the chief stress on ἐν ἑαυτοῖς . 4. διακρίνεσθαι = ‘  dubitare ,’ to entertain doubts: α .  interrogative : “Et non dubitastis apud vosmetipsos? et facti estis iniqui judices?” “Should you not yourselves have entertained doubts? should you actually have passed evil-minded judgment?” Theile: β .  negative : “Non dubitastis apud animum, ne scilicet quidem hæc cogitatio, id factum forte malum esse, sed certo apud vos statuistis id jure ac bene fieri.”
	The meaning above given is held by Keen, De Wette, Wiesinger, Huther)  within yourselves (in your own minds, being at issue with your own faith),  and become judges (in the case of the rich and poor; judges of the case before you),  of evil thoughts (the gen. is one of quality, like ὁ κριτὴς τῆς ἀδικίας , Luke 18:6 ; ἀκροατὴς ἐπιλησμονῆς , ch. James 1:25 ; not an objective gen., as Elsner, “Iniquas illas cogitationes approbastis:” and Bengel, “judices, approbatores, malarum cogitationum: i. e. divitum, foris splendentium, sed malis cogitationibus scatentium.” The evil thoughts are in the judges themselves, and consist in the undue preference given by them to the rich. The same blame, of being a judge when a man ought to be an obeyer of the law, is found in ch. James 4:11 . Notice also the parallel containing the same paronomasia, in Romans 14:0 ; σὺ δὲ τί κρίνεις τὸν ἀδελφόν σου ; (James 2:10 :).… ὁ δὲ διακρινόμενος ἐὰν φάγῃ κατακέκριται ( Jam 2:23 ))?