 14 26 .] In close connexion with what has gone before, the Apostle sets forth that  bare faith without works can never save a man . The following remarks of De Wette on the passage are important, and well condensed. They have been impugned by many, among whom are Neander, Schneckenburger, Theile, Thiersch, Hofmann: but they seem to me best to represent the simple and honest view of the matter, without any finessing to make the two Apostles in exact accord in their meaning of terms and their positions respecting them (Hofmann, Schriftbeweis, i. pp. 556 563, is worth consulting for a good statement of the other view): “In order rightly to understand this polemical passage, it is necessary accurately to define St. James’s ideas of  faith , of  works , and of  justification , and to compare them with those of St. Paul.  Faith is, according to St. James, the result of the reception of the Word (ch. Jam 1:22 ), especially in a moral point of view:  moral conviction ( Rom 14:23 ): and although he recognizes it also as belief in Christ (ch. Jam 2:1 ),  as trust (James 1:6 ; Jam 5:15 ), and  truth (i. 3), yet he makes these particulars here of so little moment, that he regards it as  theoretical belief only, and ascribes it to the evil spirits ( Jam 2:19 ). Widely different from this is St. Paul’s idea of faith, which presupposes self-abasement, the feeling of unworthiness and incapability (Romans 3:9 ff., Rom 3:23 ), and consists in trust on the grace of God revealed in the atoning death of Christ (Romans 3:25 ; Rom 5:8 ; 2 Corinthians 5:18 f.). Of this faith, moral faith is a branch ( Rom 14:23 ): but this latter, which is the adoption of the working principle of love ( Gal 5:6 ), can only spring from the purification of the inner man by faith in the atonement. So that it is impossible to say, as some have done, that the idea of faith in the two Apostles is the same. Works, according to St. James, are not the works of the law in the lower sense, the mere observance of carnal ordinances and usages, but an active life of practical morality, the rule of which is indeed found in the Mosaical law, and especially in the command to love one another, but so found, as apprehended and appropriated by the spirit of liberty (see ch. James 1:25 ; Jam 2:12 ). St. Paul also understands by ‘the works of the law’ not merely ceremonial observances, as plainly appears from Romans 7:14 ff.: but when he contends against the Jewish righteousness by works, and their pride, as in Romans 9:30 ff., he includes these observances in that to which he refers. As regards  justification , St. James understands it in a  proper , or moral sense (cf. Mat 12:37 ), which St. Paul also recognizes. But in the latter Apostle’s idea of justification, we must distinguish a threefold point of view: 1. the general moral, at which he stops, Romans 2:13 (cf. ib. Romans 2:5 ff.), taking no account,  how the highest aim of morality, there indicated, is  to be attained, and  is attained: 2. in his polemical point of view, as combating Jewish righteousness by works, he denies that we can, by the fulfilment of the law (even of its moral part, seeing that no man fulfils it aright), attain justification or well-pleasingness to God (Romans 3:20 ; Gal 2:16 ): 3. in the third point of view also, in the Christian life itself, St. Paul recognizes the inadequacy of a good conscience to give peace and blessedness to men ( 1Co 4:4 ), and finds peace only in faith in God, who justifies him of His free grace, i. e. so looks on and accepts him, as if he were righteous. This higher kind of justification, St. James does not recognize.” A good résumé of the literature of the passage will be found in Wiesinger, p. 122, note. The whole question of fact, as to whether St. Paul’s teaching, or some misunderstanding of it, or neither the one nor the other, was in St. James’s view here, I have discussed in the Prolegomena, § iii. 5 ff.