First [πρωτον μεν] . Not above all, but in the first place. The form of the phrase leads us to expect a succeeding clause introduced by secondly or next; but this is omitted in the fullness and rapidity of Paul 's thought, which so often makes him negligent of the balance of his clauses. Through Jesus Christ. As the medium of his thanksgiving : "As one who is present to his grateful thoughts; in so far, namely, as that for which he thanks God is vividly perceived and felt by him to have been brought about through Christ." Compare Romans 7:25; Colossians 3:17; Ephesians 5:20. In penitence and in thanksgiving alike, Jesus Christ is the one mediator through whom we have access to God. For you all [περι παντων υμων] . The preposition means rather concerning, about. Is proclaimed [καταγγελλεται] . The different compounds of the simple verb ajggellw to announce, are interesting. The simple verb occurs only at John 20:18. John 20:15 Anaggellein is to report with the additional idea of bringing tidings up to or back to the person receiving them. So John 5:15. The impotent man brought back information to the Jews. Compare Mark 5:14. So Christ will send the Comforter, and He will bring back to the disciples tidings of things to come. John 16:13-15. See Acts 14:27; 2 Corinthians 7:7; 1 Peter 1:12. Apaggellein is to announce with a reference to the source from [απο] which the message comes So Matthew 2:8; Acts 12:14. Compare Luke 7:22; Luke 8:34, Acts 5:22. Kataggellein is to proclaim with authority, as commissioned to spread the tidings throughout, down among those that hear them, with the included idea of celebrating or commending. So here. Compare Acts 16:21; Acts 17:3. Thus in ajnaggellein the recipient of the news is contemplated; in ajpaggellein the source; in kataggellein the relation of the bearer and hearer of the message. The first is found mostly in John, Mark, and Acts; the second in the Synoptists and Acts; the third only. in the Acts and Paul. Throughout the whole world. Hyperbolical, but according with the position of the metropolitan church. Compare 1 Thessalonians 1:8.