15. be saved in childbearing—Greek,
	"in (literally, 'through') (her, literally, 'the')
	child-bearing." Through, or by, is often so used
	to express not the means of her salvation, but the
	circumstances AMIDST
	which it has place. Thus  :-, "He . . . shall be saved: yet so as by (literally,
	'through,' that is, amidst) fire": in spite of the fiery
	ordeal which he has necessarily to pass through, he shall be
	saved. So here, "In spite of the trial of childbearing
	which she passes through (as her portion of the curse,  :-, 'in sorrow shalt thou bring forth children'), she
	shall be saved." Moreover, I think it is implied
	indirectly that the very curse will be turned into a condition
	favorable to her salvation, by her faithfully performing her part in
	doing and suffering what God has assigned to her, namely,
	child-bearing and home duties, her sphere, as
	distinguished from public teaching, which is not hers, but man's
	(1 Timothy 2:11; 1 Timothy 2:12).
	In this home sphere, not ordinarily in one of active duty for
	advancing the kingdom of God, which contradicts the position assigned
	to her by God, she will be saved on the same terms as all others,
	namely, by living faith. Some think that there is a reference to the
	Incarnation "through THE
	child-bearing" (Greek), the bearing of the child Jesus.
	Doubtless this is the ground of women's child-bearing in
	general becoming to them a blessing, instead of a curse; just as in
	the original prophecy (Genesis 3:15;
	Genesis 3:16) the promise of "the
	Seed of the woman" (the Saviour) stands in closest connection
	with the woman's being doomed to "sorrow" in "bringing
	forth children," her very child-bearing, though in
	sorrow, being the function assigned to her by God whereby the
	Saviour was born. This may be an ulterior reference of the Holy
	Spirit in this verse; but the primary reference required by the
	context is the one above given. "She shall be saved ([though]
	with childbearing)," that is, though suffering her part of the
	primeval curse in childbearing; just as a man shall be saved, though
	having to bear his part, namely, the sweat of the brow. 
	if they, &c.—"if
	the women (plural, taken out of 'the woman,' Genesis 3:16- :, which is put for the whole sex) continue," or
	more literally, "shall (be found at the judgment to) have
	continued." 
	faith and charity—the
	essential way to salvation (Genesis 3:16- :). Faith is in relation to God. Charity, to our
	fellow man. Sobriety, to one's self. 
	sobriety—"sober-mindedness"
	(see on 1 Timothy 2:9, as contrasted
	with the unseemly forwardness reproved in 1 Timothy 2:9- :). Mental receptivity and activity in family life were
	recognized in Christianity as the destiny of woman. One reason
	alleged here by Paul, is the greater danger of self-deception in the
	weaker sex, and the spread of errors arising from it, especially in a
	class of addresses in which sober reflectiveness is least in exercise
	[NEANDER]. The case (1 Timothy 2:9- :) was doubtless in private, not in public.