 15 18 .]  Explanation of various particulars regarding the harlot, and of the harlot herself .  And he saith to me, The waters which thou sawest ,  where (  οὗ , like ὅπου in Revelation 17:9 , = ἐφ ʼ ὧν )  the harlot sitteth, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages (so in Isaiah 8:7 , the king of Assyria and his invading people are compared to the waters of the river, strong and many. There is also doubtless an impious parody intended in the position of the harlot to that of Him who sitteth above the water-flood and remaineth King for ever, Psa 29:10 ).  And the ten horns which thou sawest, and the beast (viz. in that compact and alliance just now mentioned),  these shall hate the harlot (we now enter upon prophetic particulars other than those revealed in the vision, where the harlot was sitting on the beast. Previous to these things coming to pass, she must be cast down from her proud position),  and shall make her deserted and naked (contrast to Revelation 17:4 . Her former lovers shall no longer frequent her nor answer to her call: her rich adornments shall be stripped off. She shall lose, at the hands of those whom she formerly seduced with her cup of fornication, both her spiritual power over them and her temporal power to adorn herself),  and shall eat her flesh (batten upon her spoils; confiscate her possessions: or perhaps, as the same expression, Psalms 27:2 ; Micah 3:2 ff., where it is used to indicate the extreme vengeance of keen hostility. So Xen. Hell. iii. 3. 6, says of the hatred between the Helots, Periœci, &c., and the pure Spartans, ὅπου γὰρ ἐν τούτοις (the Helots, &c.) τις λόγος γένοιτο περὶ Σπαρτιατῶν , οὐδένα δύνασθαι κρύπτειν τὸ μὴ οὐχ ἡδέως ἂν καὶ ὠμῶν ἐσθίειν αὐτῶν ),  and shall consume her with (or,  in )  fire (Düsterd. remarks that in the former clause the figure of a  woman is kept: in this latter the thing signified, a  city . But this need not absolutely be; the woman may be here also intended: and all the more probably, because the very words ἐν πυρὶ κατακαύσουσιν are quoted from the legal formula of the condemnation of those who had committed abominable fornications: cf. Leviticus 20:14 ; Leviticus 21:9 . The burning of the city would be a signal fulfilment: but we cannot positively say that that, and nothing else, is intended).  For God put it (reff.: the aor. is proleptic)  into their hearts to do His mind , [  and to make one mind ( ποιῆσαι is in the same sense each time to put in practice: this they do in regard both to God’s mind and their own common mind, the two being the same. The identity is not asserted, which would require τὴν μίαν γνώμην αὐτῶν , but implied),]  and to give their kingdom (i. e., as above, the authority of their respective kingdoms)  to the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled (the prophetic words or discourses, not ῥήματα , but λόγοι , respecting the destruction of Babylon).  And the woman whom thou sawest, is the great city, which hath kingdom over the kings of the earth (every thing here is plain. The “septem urbs alta jugis toto quæ præsidet orbi,” Propert., can be but one, and that one ROME. The pres. part., ἡ ἔχουσα , points to the time when the words were uttered, and to the dominion then subsisting. It has already been seen, that the prophecy regards Rome pagan and papal, but, from the figure of an harlot and the very nature of the predictions themselves, more the latter than the former. I may observe in passing, that the view maintained recently by Düsterd., after many others, that the whole of these prophecies regard Pagan Rome only, receives no countenance from the words of this verse, which this school of Commentators are fond of appealing to as decisive for them. Rather may we say that this verse, taken in connexion with what has gone before, stultifies their view entirely. If the woman, as these Commentators insist, represents merely the stone-walls and houses of the city, what need is there for μυστήριον on her brow, what appropriateness in the use of all the Scripture imagery, long familiar to God’s people, of spiritual fornication? And if this were so, where is the contest with the Lamb, where the fulfilment of any the least portion of the prophecy? If we understand it thus, nothing is left for us but to say, as indeed some of this school are not afraid to say, that only the Seer’s wish dictated his words, and that history has not verified them. So that this view has one merit: it brings us at once face to face with the dilemma of accepting or rejecting the book: and thereby, for us, who accept it as the word of God, becomes impossible. For us, who believe the prophecy is to be fulfilled, what was Rome then, is Rome now. Her fornications and abominations, as well as her power and pride, are matter of history and of present fact: and we look for her destruction to come, as we believe it is rapidly coming, by the means and in the manner here foretold).