The beast which thou sawest, was, and is not, and shall come up out of the abyss, and goeth to perdition</b> (these words have been a very battle-field for apocalyptic expositors. ‘The principal differing interpretations are far too long to be given at all intelligibly here, but will be seen best in their own works, and compendiously but fairly stated in the notices in Mr. Elliott’s fourth volume. What is here required, is that I should give a consistent account of that solution which I have been myself led to adopt. 1) It will not be supposed, with the general view which I have taken of the beast as the secular persecuting power, that I am prepared to accede to that line of interpretation which makes the whole vision merely descriptive of the Scer’s own time, and of the Roman emperors then past, present, and expected. Against such a view it seems to me the whole imagery and diction of the vision protest: and this it will be my endeavour to shew as each of their details comes under my notice. If, as universally acknow-ledged, our prophecy be a taking up and continuation of that of Daniel, then we are dealing with larger matters and on a wider scale than such a limited interpretation would imply. 2) Noragain, after the meaning assigned above to the harlot and her title, will it be expected that I should agree with those who take her as, according to the letter of our ver. 18, strictly confined in meaning to the material city of Rome. She is that city: but she is also<b> mystery</b>. She is herself a harlot, an apostate and faithless church: but she is also a mother: from her spring, of her nature partake, with her shall be destroyed, all the fornications and abominations of the earth, though they be not in Rome, though they be not called by her name, though in outward semblance they quarrel with and oppose her. 3) The above remarks will lead their intelligent reader to expect, that the present words of our text, which are in the main reproductive of the imagery of ch. xiii. 1–4, will be interpreted as those were interpreted, not of mere passing events and persons, but of world-wide and world-long empires and changes. 4) Having thus indicated the line of interpreta-tion which I shall follow, I reserve the details for ver. 10, where they necessarily come before us):<b> and they shall wonder who dwell upon the earth, of whom the name is not written upon</b> (so literally, as often in this book)<b> the book of life from the foundation of the world</b> (i. e. written from that time),<b> seeing the beast that he was and is not and shall come again</b> (see for full explanation, below on vv. 9, 10).