 7 18 .]  Explanation by the angel of the mystery of the woman and of the beast . And first,  7 14 .]  of the beast .  And the angel said to me, Wherefore didst thou wonder? I will tell to thee the mystery (which, be it noted, is but one)  of the woman and of the wild-beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and the ten horns. The beast which thou sawest, was, and is not, and shall come up out of the abyss and goeth to perdition (these words have been a very battle-field for apocalyptic expositors, whose principal differing interpretations are far too long to be given at all intelligibly here, but will be seen best in their own works, and compendiously but fairly stated in the notices in Mr. Elliott’s fourth volume. What is here required, is that I should give a consistent account of that solution which I have been myself led to adopt. 1) It will not be supposed, with the general view which I have taken of the beast as the secular persecuting power, that I am prepared to accede to that line of interpretation which makes the whole vision merely descriptive of the Seer’s own time, and of the Roman emperors then past, present, and expected. Against such a view it seems to me the whole imagery and diction of the vision protest: and this it will be my endeavour to shew as each of their details comes under my notice. If, as universally acknowledged, our prophecy be a taking up and continuation of that of Daniel, then we are dealing with larger matters and on a wider scale than such a limited interpretation would imply. 2) Nor again, after the meaning assigned above to the harlot and her title, will it be expected that I should agree with those who take her as, according to the letter of our Revelation 17:18 , strictly confined in meaning to the material city of Rome. She  is that city: but she is also μυστήριον . She is herself a harlot, an apostate and faithless church; but she is also a  mother : from her spring, of her nature partake, with her shall be destroyed, all the fornications and abominations of the earth, though they be not in Rome, though they be not called by her name, though in outward semblance they quarrel with and oppose her. 3) The above remarks will lead their intelligent reader to expect, that the present words of our text, which are in the main reproductive of the imagery of ch. Revelation 13:1-4 , will be interpreted as those were interpreted, not of mere passing events and persons, but of world-wide and world-long empires and changes. 4) Having thus indicated the line of interpretation which I shall follow, I reserve the details for Revelation 17:10 , where they necessarily come before us):  and they shall wonder who dwell upon the earth, of whom the name is not written upon (the accus. as so often in this book)  the book of life from the foundation of the world (these latter words, even in ordinary N. T. Greek, would belong to γέγραπται , and the art. τό would be wanted to connect them with τὸ βιβλίον τῆς ζωῆς . But it is by no means certain, in the loose Greek of the Apocalypse, whether these accuracies must be insisted on. Judging by the analogy of ch. Revelation 13:8 (see note there), ἀπὸ κατ . κόσμου belongs to that which immediately precedes it: as indeed it does in every place where it occurs in which its connexion might be ambiguous. I prefer therefore to follow analogy, rather than to insist on philological accuracy in a book where its rules are manifestly not observed),  seeing (the reader expects βλέποντες , to agree with οἱ κατοικοῦντες : but instead, we have βλεπόντων , agreeing with ὧν by attraction)  the beast that he was and is not and shall come again (see for full explanation, below on Rev 17:9-10 ).  Here (  is )  the mind that hath wisdom (by these words, as in ch. Revelation 13:18 , attention is bespoken, and spiritual discernment challenged, for that which follows).  The seven heads are seven mountains, where (= ἐφ ʼ ὧν , on which)  the woman sitteth (  upon them ) ( ἐπ ʼ αὐτῶν , the well-known Hebraistic redundancy of construction after ἐφ ʼ ὧν , here expressed by ὅπου .
	By these words, no less plainly than by Revelation 17:18 , Rome is pointed out. Propertius, iii. 11. 57, by a remarkable coincidence, unites both descriptions in one line: “Septem urbs alta jugis, toto quæ præsidet orbi.” The more remarkable out of the very many testimonies to Rome being thus known, are those of Horace, Carmen Seculare, 7, “Di quibus septem placuere colles:” Virg. Æn. vi. 782, “Illa inclyta Roma Imperium terris, animos æquabit Olympo, Septemque una sibi muro circumdabit arces:” where Servius annotates, “alii dicunt breves septem colliculos a Romulo inclusos, qui tamen aliis nominibus appellabantur: alii volunt hos ipsos qui nunc sunt a Romulo inclusos, hoc est Palatinum, Quirinalem, Aventinum, Cœlium, Viminalem, Æsquilinum, et Janicularem.” See also Georg. ii. 534: Cicero, ad Att. vi. 5, ἐξ ἄστεος ἑπταλόφου : Martial iv. 64, speaking of Julius Martial’s gardens on the Janiculum, “Hinc septem dominos videre montes, Et totam licet æstimare Romam:” Varro de L. L. iv., “Dies Septimontium nominatus ab his septem montibus in queis sita Roma est:” and so Plutarch, Probl. Rom. p. 280 D, τὸ Σεπτιμούντιον ἄγουσιν ἐπὶ τῷ τὸν ἕβδομον λόφον τῇ πόλει προσκατανεμηθῆναι , καὶ τὴν Ῥώμην ἑπτάλοφον γενέσθαι . See very many more in Wetst., and a copious catena of citations in Bp. Wordsworth’s Letters to M. Gondon on the Church of Rome, Let. xi. Also the coin of Vespasian figured in Elliott, vol. iv. p. 30):  and they are seven kings (let us weigh well the significance of this indication furnished by the angel. The seven heads have a reference to the  woman , who sits upon the beast to whom they belong: and, as far as  this reference is concerned, they are  hills, on which she sits . But they have also another reference to the beast, of which they are the heads: and as far as this other reference is concerned, they are  kings . Not, be it noticed, kings over the woman, nor kings of the city symbolized by her: but kings in a totally different relation, viz. that to the beast, of which they are heads. So that to interpret these kings as  emperors of Rome , or as successive  forms of government over Rome , is to miss the propriety of the symbolism and to introduce utter confusion. They belong to the  beast , which is not Rome, nor the Roman Empire, but a general symbol of secular antichristian power. They are in substance the same seven crowned heads which we saw on the dragon in ch. Revelation 12:3 ; the same which we saw, with names of blasphemy on them, on the beast of ch. Revelation 13:1 , to whom the dragon gave his power and his throne).  The five (i. e. the first five out of the seven)  fell (Angl., “are fallen.” Of whom is this word used? Is it one likely to be chosen to describe the mere passing away of king after king in an empire more or less settled? One appropriate to Augustus and Tiberius, who died in their beds? Or again is it one which could well be predicated of the government by consuls, which had been absorbed into the imperial power, or of that by dictators, which had merely ceased  ad tempus sumi , because it had become perpetual in the person of one man? Had Roman emperors been meant by the seven kings, or successive stages of government over Rome (even supposing these last made out, which they never have been), we should in vain have sought any precedent, or any appropriate meaning, for this ἔπεσαν : “have passed away” would be its constrained and unexampled sense. But let the analogy of Scripture and of this book itself guide us, and our way will be clear enough. ἔπεσεν is the cry over Babylon herself. πίπτω is used in the LXX constantly, and by Theod. in ref. Dan., of the violent fall, the overthrow, either of kings or of kingdoms: it is a word belonging to domination overthrown, to glory ruined, to empire superseded. If I understand these five of individual successive kings, if I understand them of forms of government adopted and laid down on occasion, I can give no account of this verb: but if I understand them of forms of empire, one after another heading the antichristian secular power, one after another violently overthrown and done away, I have this verb in its right place and appropriate sense.  Egypt is fallen, the first head of the beast that persecuted God’s people, Ezekiel 29, 30;  Nineveh is fallen, the bloody city, Nahum 3:1-19 ;  Babylon is fallen, the great enemy of Israel, Isaiah 21:9 ; Jeremiah 50, 51, al.:  Persia is fallen, Daniel 10:13 ; Daniel 11:2 ;  Græcia is fallen, Daniel 11:3-4 . Thus, and as it seems to me thus only, can we do justice to the expression. Nor is any force done thus to βασιλεῖς , but on the contrary it is kept to its strict prophetic import, and to the analogy of that portion of prophecy which is here especially in view. For in Dan 7:17 we read these great beasts which are four are four kings, מַלְכין ; not βασιλεῖαι , as LXX and Theodotion),  the one is (the  Roman ),  the other (required to complete the seven)  is not yet come (I agree with Auberlen, der Prophet Daniel, pp. 304 ff., in regarding this seventh as the  Christian empire beginning with Constantine: during whose time the beast in his proper essence, in his fulness of opposition to God and His saints, ceases to be),  and when he shall come he must remain a little time (certainly the impression we derive from these words is not as Düsterd., al., that his empire is to be of very short continuance, but the ὀλίγον , as in ref. 1 Pet., gives the idea of some space not assigned, but vaguely thus stated as “some little time.” The idea given is rather that of duration than of non-duration. Herodotus, iv. 81, says of the river Exampæus, τοῦ καὶ ὀλίγον τι πρότερον τούτων μνήμην εἶχον , but it was twenty-nine chapters back. See for the usage of this book itself, ch. Revelation 2:14 , Revelation 3:4 ; not Revelation 12:12 , where the context decides ὀλίγον to be emphatic. Here, the stress is on δεῖ μεῖναι , and not on ὀλίγον : on the fact of  some endurance, not on its being but short).  And the beast, which was and is not (as in Revelation 17:8 , whose peculiar power and essence seem suspended while the empire is Christian by profession. But observe, the seventh is for all that a veritable head, and like the others carries names of blasphemy. The beast is not actually put out of existence, but has only received a deadly wound which is again healed, see ch. Revelation 13:3 , notes),  he himself (or,  this )  also is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth unto perdition (this eighth, the last and worst phase of the beast, is not represented as any one of his heads, but as being  the beast himself in actual embodiment. He is ἐκ τῶν ἑπτά , not, “  one of the seven,” but, the successor and result of the seven, following and springing out of them. And he εἰς ἀπώλειαν ὑπάγει does not  fall like the others, but goes on and meets his own destruction at the hand of the Lord Himself. There can be little doubt in the mind of the student of prophecy,  who is thus described: that it is the ultimate antichristian power, prefigured by the little horn in Daniel, and expressly announced by St. Paul, 2 Thessalonians 2:3 ff., as ὁ υἱὸς τῆς ἀπωλείας , as ὁ ἄνομος , ὃν ὁ κύριος Ἰησοῦς ἀνελεῖ τῷ πνεύματι τοῦ στόματος αὐτοῦ , καὶ καταργήσει τῇ ἐπιφανείᾳ τῆς παρουσίας αὐτοῦ ).  And the ten horns which thou sawest, are ten kings (not necessarily personal kings: see on Rev 17:10 above: but kingdoms, regarded as summed up in their kings)  which (  οἵτινες , kings of that kind who)  have not yet received a kingdom, but receive power as kings (the  ὡς βασιλεῖς is somewhat enigmatical. Auberlen suggests, whether the kingly power itself may not have passed away from these realms in the days of antichristian misrule, and thus their power be only  ὡς βασιλεῖς . But this seems inconsistent with their being  called βασιλεῖς . Rather I would say the  ὡς represents the reservation of their kingly rights in their alliance with the beast)  one hour (i. e. during the space of one hour: just as ἡμίωρον in ch. Rev 8:1 is during the space of half an hour. Some, e. g. Vitringa and Elliott, have upheld the meaning, for μίαν ὤραν μετά , of “at one and the same time with.” From the use of ποίαν ὥραν in ch. Revelation 3:3 , we might concede such usage to be within the bare limits of possibility; though even thus the μίαν μετά , for “one and the same with,” is a hard saying. But we are not to enquire in our exegesis, what  may possibly  be , but what probably  is . And I venture to say that but for a preconceived opinion, no one would ever have thought of any other meaning for these words than the ordinary one, “for the space of one hour.” And thus accordingly we will take them, as signifying some definite space, unknown to us, thus designated: analogous in position to the ὀλίγον above)  together with (i. e. in conjunction with, allied with: their power will be associated with his power) the  beast (who are these? The answer seems to be furnished us in Daniel 7:23 ff. They are ten kingdoms which shall arise out of the fourth great kingdom there: ten European powers, which in the last time, in concert with and subjection to the antichristian power, shall make war against Christ. In the precise number and form here indicated, they have not yet arisen. It would not be difficult to point out the elements and already consolidating shapes of most of them: but in precise number we have them not as yet. What changes in Europe may bring them into the required tale and form, it is not for us to say).  These have (the present is used in describing them, though they have not yet arisen)  one mind (one and the same view and intent and consent),  and give their might and their power to the beast (becoming his allies and moving at his beck).  These shall war with the Lamb (in concert with the beast, ch. Rev 19:19 ),  and the Lamb shall conquer them, because He is Lord of lords and King of kings, and they who are with Him ( νικήσουσιν αὐτούς also: the verb is implied in νικήσει above)  called and chosen (all the called are not chosen, Matt. (Matthew 20:16 ,) Revelation 22:14 ; but all that are chosen are first called, 2Pe 1:10 )  and faithful (this way of taking this clause is far better than with Bengel to make κλ . κ . ἐκλ . κ . πιστοί into predicate, “and they that are with him are called and chosen and faithful.” For 1) it can clearly be no co-ordinate reason with the other assigned for the Lamb’s victory, that  His followers are , &c., and 2) the arrangement of the sentence seems against this view, seeing that in the former case the predicate is put forward, and in this we should have expected it also: καὶ κλ . κ . ἐκλεκτ . κ . πιστοὶ οἱ μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ ).