 Diffusion of the Gospel along the Phoenician Coast, in Cyprus, and    at Antioch,  19-21.
	Acts 11:19.  They which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen.
	The   most obvious remark here is, that that which appeared an irreparable calamity to the Church, became the direct means of diffusing Christianity in new regions. His martyrdom, in fact, led immediately to the first preaching of the Gospel to Pagans, after the conversion of Cornelius; and a wide diffusion of blessing, in consequence of a great calamity, has been the experience of the Church on many occasions since, it is not, indeed, certain that this wider missionary work was not anterior to that great conversion. The order of time in this matter is, in fact, of no great consequence. It is more important to note that the two occurrences were independent of one another, while they both converged to one great result. It is with the progress of Revelation as with the progress of Science. When a signal manifestation of new truth is at hand, there are commonly preludes and preparations in more places than one. Inspiration and Induction are, indeed, strongly contrasted with one another; but the following words of the late Dr. Whewell may, without irreverence, be quoted in illustration of the matter before us: ‘Such epochs have been preceded by a period, which we may call their  Prelude,  during which the ideas and facts on which they turned were called into action; were gradually evolved into clearness and connection, permanency and certainty; till at last the discovery which marks the Epoch, seized and fixed for ever the truth which till then had been obscurely and doubtfully discerned’ (  History of the Inductive Sciences, Acts 1:13).
	 Phenice ( Φοινι ́ κης  ).  This is the same district as that which is termed ‘Phenice’ in Acts 15:3 and ‘Phoenicia’ in Acts 21:2, and is, of course, to be carefully distinguished from the ‘Phenice’ ( Φοῑνι ́ ξ ) of Acts 27:12, which word ought to be differently pronounced. It is to be regretted that they appear in the same form in the Authorised Version. Both geographical terms were doubtless derived from the prevalence of the palm-tree: and this tree appears on some of the coins of Tyre and Sidon, which were the principal towns along the Phoenician coast. This coast district is hemmed in by the line of Lebanon and by the sea, and was sometimes termed Φοινι ́ κη παραλος , or ‘Phoenice maritima.’ It was about 120   miles long and about 20 broad. A good Roman road along this coast made the communication easy between Antioch and Judaea. The stations are given in the Antonine Itinerary and the Jerusalem Itinerary (see Wesseling’s  Vetera Romanorum Itineraria,  pp. 149, 582).
	 Cyprus.  The first mention of this island in the Acts of the Apostles is in Acts 4:36, where it is named as the birthplace of Barnabas. It is mentioned again in the next verse of this chapter, and again in Acts 13:4, Acts 21:3, Acts 21:16, and Acts 27:4. Recent events give a curious interest to the frequent occurrence of the name of Cyprus in this book. It is worthy of notice, too, that in every case it occurs quite naturally in the narrative, and in its true geographical connection.
	 Antioch.  Here first appears a name of vast consequence in the early history of Christianity, and in the subsequent history of the Church (see note on Acts 11:26).
	 Preaching the word to none, but unto the Jews only.  A question might be raised here as to whether ᾿Ιουδαι ́ οις here is the antithesis to Ελληνες or to Ελληυισταί (see note on the next verse). The former is undoubtedly more according to usage than the other. However this may be, the mere fact that St. Luke throws in this clause, shows his deep sense, and calls his readers to a deep sense, of the importance of what is coming.
	