 15 .]  But (contrast to this her great and original defect)  she (general)  shall be saved through (brought safely through, but in the higher, which is with St. Paul the only sense of σώζω , see below)  her child-bearing (in order to understand the fulness of the meaning of σωθήσεται here, we must bear in mind the history itself, to which is the constant allusion. The curse on the woman for her παράβασις was, ἐν λύπαις τέξῃ τέκνα ( Gen 3:16 ). Her τεκνογονία is that in which the curse finds its operation. What then is here promised her? Not only exemption from that curse in its worst and heaviest effects: not merely that she shall safely bear children: but the Apostle uses the word  σωθήσεται purposely for its higher meaning, and the construction of the sentence is precisely as ref. 1 Cor. αὐτὸς δὲ σωθήσεται , οὕτως δὲ ὡς διὰ πυρός . Just as that man should be saved through, as passing through, fire which is his trial, his hindrance in his way, in spite of which he escapes, so she shall be saved, through, as passing through, her child-bearing, which is her trial, her curse, her (not means of salvation, but) hindrance in the way of it.
	The other renderings which have been given seem to me both irrelevant and ungrammatical. Chrys., Thl., al., for instance, would press τεκνογονία to mean the Christian education of children: Heinrichs, strangely enough, holds that her τεκνογ . is the  punishment of her sin, and that being undergone, she shall be saved  διὰ τῆς τ ., i.e. by having paid it. Conyb. gives it ‘  women will be saved by the bearing of children ,’ i.e., as he explains it in his note, “are to be kept in the path of safety (?) by the performance of the peculiar functions which God has assigned to their sex.” Some, in their anxiety to give διὰ the instrumental meaning, would understand  διὰ τῆς τεκνογ , ‘by means of  the Child-bearing ,’ i.e. ‘the Incarnation:’ a rendering which needs no refutation. I see that Ellicott maintains this latter interpretation: still I find no reason to qualify what I have above written. 1Co 3:15 seems to me so complete a key of Pauline usage of σώζεσθαι διὰ , that I cannot abandon the path opened by it, till far stronger reason has been shewn than he here alleges. In his second edition he has not in any way strengthened his argument, nor has he taken any notice of the Pauline usage which I allege. After all, it is mainly a question of exegetical tact: and I own I am surprised that any scholar can believe it possible that St. Paul can have expressed the Incarnation by the bare word ἡ τεκνογονία . He himself in this same Epistle, 1 Timothy 5:14 , uses the cognate verb, of the ordinary bearing of children: and these are the only places where the compound occurs in the N. T.),  if they (generic plural as before singular)  have remained (shall be found in that day to have remained a further proof of the higher meaning of  σωθήσεται )  in faith and love and holiness (see reff., where the word is used in the same reference, of holy chastity)  with self-restraint (see above on 1Ti 2:9 ).