 3, 4 .]  For this (viz. ποιεῖσθαι δεήσεις κ . τ . λ . ὑπὲρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων , &c. 1 Timothy 2:1 ; what has followed since being merely the continuation of this)  is good and acceptable (both adjectives are to be taken with ἐνώπιον , &c., not as De W. and Ellic. ‘  καλόν ,  good in and of itself :’ compare ref. 2 Cor., καλὰ οὐ μόνον ἐνώπιον κυρίου , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐνώπιον ἀνθρώπων . I still hold, against Ellicott, to this connexion, shrinking from the crude and ill-balanced form of the sentence which the other would bring in.
	 ἀποδεκτόν , peculiar (cf. ἀποδοχή , ch. 1Ti 1:15 ) to these Epistles. See 2Co 6:2 )  in the sight of our Saviour (a title manifestly chosen as belonging to the matter in hand, cf. next verse. On it, see ch. 1Ti 1:1 )  God who (i.e. seeing that He)  willeth all men to be saved (see ch. 1 Timothy 4:10 ; Titus 2:11 . πάντας ἀνθρώπους is repeated from 1 Timothy 2:1 . Chrys.’s comment is very noble: μιμοῦ τὸν θεόν . εἰ πάντας ἀνθρώπους θέλει σωθῆναι , εἰκότως ὑπὲρ ἁπάντων δεῖ εὔχεσθαι . εἰ πάντας αὐτὸς ἤθελε σωθῆναι , θέλε καὶ σύ . εἰ δὲ θέλεις , εὔχου . τῶν γὰρ τοιούτων ἐστὶ τὸ εὔχεσθαι . Huther rightly remarks, that Mosheim’s view, “nisi pax in orbe terrarum vigeat, fieri nullo modo posse ut voluntati divinæ quæ omnium hominum salutem cupit, satisfiat,” destroys the true context and train of thought: see more below. Wiesinger remarks σωθῆναι , not σῶσαι , as in Titus 3:5 , as adapted to the mediatorial effect of prayer, not direct divine agency: but we may go yet further, and say that by θέλει πάντας ἀνθρ . σωθῆναι is expressed human acceptance of offered salvation, on which even God’s predestination is contingent. θέλει σῶσαι πάντας could not have been said: if so, He  would have saved all, in matter of fact. See the remarks, and references to English and other divines, in Ellicott’s note. Calvin most unworthily shuffles out of the decisive testimony borne by this passage to universal redemption. “Apostolus simpliciter intelligit nullum mundi vel populum vel ordinem salute excludi; quia omnibus sine exceptione evangelium proponi Deus velit.… De hominum generibus, non singulis personis sermo est; nihil enim aliud intendit, quam principes et extraneos populos in hoc numero includere.” As if kings and all in eminence were not in each case individual men),  and to come to (the)  certain knowledge (on ἐπίγνωσις , fuller and more assured than γνῶσις , see 1 Corinthians 13:12 ; Colossians 1:11 ; Col 2:2 )  of (the) truth (the expression is a favourite one in these Epistles, see reff. This realization of the truth is in fact identical with σωτηρία , not only (Huther) as that σωτηρία is a  rescue from life in untruth, but in its deepest and widest sense of  salvation , here and hereafter: cf. John 17:3 , αὕτη ἐστὶν ἡ αἰώνιος ζωή , ἵνα γινώσκωσίν σε τὸν μόνον ἀληθινὸν θεόν … and ib. John 17:17 , ἁγίασον αὐτοὺς ἐν τῇ ἀληθείᾳ ).