 8 .] See summary at beginning of chapter.  I will then (“in βούλομαι the active wish is implied: it is no mere willingness or acquiescence,” Ellic. On the distinction between βούλομαι and θέλω , see Donaldson, Cratyl. § 463, p. 650 f. Exodus 2:0 : and Ellic. on ch. 1Ti 5:14 )  that the men (the E. V. by omitting the article, has entirely obscured this passage for its English readers, not one in a hundred of whom ever dream of a distinction of the sexes being here intended. But again the position of τοὺς ἄνδρας forbids us from supposing that such distinction was the Apostle’s main object in this verse. Had it been so, we should have read τοὺς ἄνδρας προσεύχεσθαι . As it now stands, the stress is on προσεύχεσθαι , and τοὺς ἄνδρας is taken for granted. Thus the main subject of 1Ti 2:1 is carried on, the duty of PRATER, in general not (as Schleierm. objects) one portion merely of it, the allotting it to its proper offerers)  pray in every place (these words  ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ regard the general duty of praying, not the particular detail implied in τοὺς ἄνδρας : still less are we to join τοὺς ἄνδρας ( τοὺς ) ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ . It is a  local command respecting prayer, answering to the temporal command ἀδιαλείπτως προσεύχεσθε , 1 Thessalonians 5:17 . It is far-fetched and irrelevant to the context to find in the words, as Chr., Thdrt., al., Pel., Erasm., Calv., Beza, Grot., al., the Christian’s freedom from prescription of place for prayer πρὸς τὴν νομικὴν διαγόρευσιν τέθεικεν · οὐ γὰρ (vulgo ὃς γὰρ ) τοῖς Ἱεροσολύμοις περιέγραψε τὴν λατρείαν , Thdrt.: and Chrys., ὅπερ τοῖς Ἰουδαίοις θέμις οὐκ ἦν ),  lifting up holy hands (see LXX, ref. Ps.: also Psalms 27:2 , 43:20; Clem. Rom. Ephesians 1:0 to Corinthians, ch. 29, p. 269: προσέλθωμεν αὐτῷ ἐν ὁσιότητι ψυχῆς , ἁγνὰς καὶ ἀμιάντους χεῖρας αἴροντες πρὸς αὐτόν . These two passages, as Huther observes, testify to the practice in the Christian church.
	The form ὁσίους with a feminine is unusual: but we must not, as Winer suggests (edn. 6, § 11. 1), join it to ἐπαίροντας . His own instances, στρατιὰ οὐράνιος , Luke 2:13 , ἶρις … ὅμοιος , Revelation 4:3 , furnish some precedent: and the fact that the ending - ιος is common to all three establishes an analogy. “Those hands are holy, which have not surrendered themselves as instruments of evil desire: the contrary are βέβηλοι χεῖρες , 2Ma 5:16 ; compare, for the expression, Job 17:9 , Psalms 23:4 , and in the N. T., especially James 4:8 , καθαρίσατε χεῖρας καὶ ἁγνίσατε καρδίας .” Huther. See classical passages in Wetst.)  without (separate from, “putting away,” as Conyb.)  wrath and disputation (i.e. in tranquillity and mutual peace, so literally,  sine disceptatione , as vulg., see note on ref. Phil. Ellic.’s objection, that we should thus import from the context a meaning unconfirmed by good lexical authority, is fully met by the unquestionable usage of the verb διαλογίζω in the N. T. for to  dispute . At the same time, seeing that the matter treated of is  prayer , where  disputing hardly seems in place, perhaps  doubting is the better sense; which, after all, is a disputation within one’s self).