 9 .]  So also (  ὡσαύτως , by the parallel passage, Titus 2:3 , seems to be little more than a copula, not necessarily to refer to the matter which has been last under treatment)  I will that women (without the article, the reference to τοὺς ἄνδρας above is not so pointed: i.e. we need not imagine that the reference is necessarily to the same matter of detail, but may regard the verse (see below) as pointing to the general duties and behaviour of women, as not belonging to the category of οἱ προσευχόμενοι ἐν παντὶ τόπῳ )  adorn themselves (there is no need, as Chrys. and most Commentators, to supply προσεύχεσθαι to complete the sense: indeed if I have apprehended the passage rightly, it would be altogether irrelevant. The ὡσαύτως serving merely as a copula (see above) the προσεύχεσθαι belonging solely and emphatically to τοὺς ἄνδρας , the question, ‘what then are women to do?’ is answered by insisting on modesty of appearance and the ornament of good works, as contrasted ( 1Ti 2:12 ) with the man’s part. The public assemblies are doubtless, in 1 Timothy 2:12 , still before the Apostle’s mind, but in a very slight degree. It is the general duties of women, rather than any single point in reference to their conduct in public worship, to which he is calling attention: though the subject of public worship led to his thus speaking, and has not altogether disappeared from his thoughts. According to this view, the construction proceeds direct with the infinitive κοσμεῖν , without any supposition of an anacoluthon, as there must be on the other hypothesis)  in orderly (ref.)  apparel (cf. Titus 2:3 , note: “in seemly guise,” Ellic.  καταστολή , originally ‘  arrangement ,’ ‘  putting in order ,’ followed in its usage that of its verb  καταστέλλω . We have in Eur. Bacch. 891, αὐτὸν ( τὸν πλόκαμον ) πάλιν  καταστελοῦμεν , ‘  we will re-arrange the dishevelled lock :’ then Aristoph. Thesm. 256, ἴθι νῦν  κατάστειλόν με τὰ περὶ τὼ σκέλη  clothe, dress me . Thus in Plut. Pericl. 5, we read of Anaxagoras, that his  καταστολὴ περιβολῆς , ‘  arrangement of dress ,’ was πρὸς οὐδὲν ἐκταραττομένη πάθος ἐν τῷ λέγειν . Then in Jos. B. J. ii. 8. 4, of the Essenes, that their καταστολὴ καὶ σχῆμα σώματος was ὅμοιον τοῖς μετὰ φόβου παιδαγωγουμένοις παισίν , which he proceeds to explain by saying οὔτε δὲ ἐσθῆτας , οὔτε ὑποδήματα ἀμείβουσι , πρὶν ἢ διαῤῥαγῆναι , κ . τ . λ . So that we must take it as meaning ‘the apparel,’ the whole investiture of the person. This he proceeds presently to break up into detail, forbidding πλέγματα , χρυσόν , μαργαρίτας , ἱματισμὸν πολυτελῆ , all which are parts of the καταστολή . This view of the meaning of the word requires ἐν καταστολῇ κοσμίῳ to belong to κοσμεῖν , and then to be taken up by the ἐν following, an arrangement, as it seems to me, also required by the natural construction of the sentence itself)  with shamefastness (not, as modern reprints of the E. V., ‘shame  faced ness,’ which is a mere unmeaning corruption by the printers of a very expressive and beautiful word: see Trench, N. T. Synonyms, § xx.)  and self-restraint (I adopt Conybeare’s word as, though not wholly satisfactory, bringing out the leading idea of  σωφροσύνη better than any other. Its fault is, that it is a word too indicative of  effort , as if the unchaste desires were continually breaking bounds, and as continually held in check: whereas in the σώφρων , the safe-and-sound-minded, no such continual struggle has place, but the better nature is established in its rule. Trench (ubi supra) has dealt with the two words, setting aside the insufficient distinction of Xenophon, Cyr. viii. 1. 31, where he says of Cyrus, διῄρει δὲ αἰδῶ καὶ σωφροσύνην τῇδε , ὡς τοὺς μὲν αἰδουμένους τὰ ἐν τῷ φανερῷ αἰσχρὰ φεύγοντας , τοὺς δὲ σώφρονας καὶ τὰ ἐν τῷ ἀφανεῖ . “If,” Trench concludes, “  αἰδώς is the ‘shamefastness,’ or tendency which shrinks from overpassing the limits of womanly reserve and modesty, as well as from the dishonour which would justly attach thereto,  σωφροσύνη is that habitual inner self-government, with its constant rein on all the passions and desires, which would hinder the temptation to this from arising, or at all events from arising in such strength as should overbear the checks and hindrances which αἰδώς opposed to it.” Ellic. gives for it, “sober-mindedness,” and explains it, “  the well-balanced state of mind, arising from habitual self-restraint .” See his notes, here, and in his translation),  not in plaits (of hair: cf. 1 Peter 3:3 , ἐμπλοκὴ τριχῶν , and see Ellicott’s note)  and gold ( καὶ περιθέσεως χρυσίων , 1 Pet. l. c., perhaps, from the καί , the gold is supposed to be twined among, or worn with, the plaited hair. See Rev 17:4 ),  or pearls, or costly raiment (= ἐνδύσεως ἱματίων , 1 Pet. l. c.), but,  which is becoming for women professing ( ἐπαγγέλλεσθαι is ordinarily in N. T. ‘to promise,’ see reff. But the meaning ‘to profess,’ ‘præ se ferre,’ is found in the classics, e.g. Xen. Mem. i. 2. 7, ἐθαύμαζε δέ , εἴ τις ἀρετὴν ἐπαγγελλόμενος ἀργύριον πράττοιτο : cf. Palm and Rost’s Lex., and the numerous examples in Wetst.)  godliness ( θεοσέβεια is found in Xen. An. ii. 6. 26, and Plato, Epinomis, pp. 985 d, 989 e. The adjective θεοσεβής is common enough),  by means of good works (not ἐν again, because the adornment lies in a different sphere and cannot be so expressed. The adorning which results from good works is brought about by ( διὰ ) their practice, not displayed by appearing to be invested with them ( ἐν ). Huther’s construction, after Thdrt., Œc, Luth., Calv., and Mack and Matthies, ἐπαγγελλ . θεοσέβειαν δι ʼ ἔργων ἀγαθῶν , is on all grounds objectionable: 1) the understanding ὅ as ἐν τούτῳ ὅ or καθ ʼ ὅ , which of itself might pass, introduces great harshness into the sentence: 2) the junction of ἐπαγγελλομέναις δι ʼ is worse than that of κοσμεῖν δι ʼ, to which he objects: 3) the arrangement of the words is against it, which would thus rather be γυναιξὶν δι ʼ ἔργων ἀγαθῶν θεοσέβειαν ἐπαγγελλομέναις : 4) he does not see that his objection, that the adornment of women has been already specified by ἐν καταστολῇ κ . τ . λ ., and therefore need not be again specified by δι ʼ ἔργων ἀγ ., applies just as much to his own rendering, taking ὅ for καθ ʼ ὅ or ἐν τούτῳ ὅ ).