 5 .]  For (further grounding of the acceptableness of prayer for  all men, in the UNITY of God. But this verse is joined by the γάρ directly to the preceding, not to 1 Timothy 2:1 . Chrys. gives it rightly δεικνὺς ὅτι σωθῆναι θέλει πάντας )  there is ONE  God (He is ONE in essence and one in purpose not of different minds to different nations or individuals, but of one mind towards all. Similarly Romans 3:30 , and, which is important for the understanding of that difficult passage, Galatians 3:20 . The double reference, to the unity in essence and unity of purpose, for which I have contended there, is plain and unmistakeable here), ONE  Mediator (see reff. It occurs, besides the places in the Gal., only in the Epistle to the Heb., Hebrews 8:6 ; Hebrews 9:15 ; Hebrews 12:24 . There is no necessity that the idea should, as De W. and Schleierm., be connected with that of a mutual covenant, and so be here far-fetched as regards the context (borrowed from the places in the Heb., according to De W.): the word is used as standing alone, and representing the fact of Christ Jesus being the only  go-between , in whatever sense)  also (the εἷς prefixed to the καί for emphasis)  of (between)  God and men (if one only goes between, then that One must be for  all ), (  the )  man Christ Jesus (why ἄνθρωπος ? Thdrt. answers, ἄνθρωπον δὲ τὸν χριστὸν ὠνόμασεν , ἐπειδὴ μεσίτην ἐκάλεσεν · ἐνανθρωπήσας γὰρ ἑμεσίτευσεν : and so most Commentators. But it is not here the Apostle’s object, to set forth the nature of Christ’s mediation as regards its being brought about; only as regards its unity and universality for mankind. And for this latter reason he calls him here by this name MAN, that He gathered up all our human nature into Himself, becoming its second Head. So that the ἄνθρωπος in fact carries with it the very strongest proof of that which he is maintaining. Notice it is not  ὁ ἄνθρωπος , though we are obliged inaccurately thus to express it: in personality, our Lord was not  a man , but in nature He was man. It might be rendered, “Christ Jesus, Himself man.”
	I should object, as against Ellicott, to introduce  at all the indefinite article: not  individual but  generic humanity is predicated: and “a man” unavoidably conveys the idea of human individuality. It is singularly unfortunate that Ellic. should have referred to Augustine, Serm. xxvi. as cited by Wordsw., in corroboration of the rendering “a man:” the Latin  homo being of course as incapable of deciding this as the Greek ἄνθρωπος , and “  a man ” being only Bp. Wordsworth’s translation of it. Nay, the whole tenor of the passage of Augustine (ed. Migne, vol. v. p. 174) precludes such a rendering. The stupidity of such writers as Baur and the Socinians, who regard such an expression as against the deity of Christ, is beyond all power of mine to characterize. In the face of εἷς θεός , εἷς  μεσίτης θεοῦ καὶ  ἀνθρώπων , to maintain gravely such a position, shews utter blindness from party bias even to the plainest thoughts expressed in the plainest words),  who gave himself (reff., especially Tit.)  a ransom (  ἀντί -, as in ἀντιμισθία , Romans 1:27 ; 2 Corinthians 6:13 ; ἀντάλλαγμα , Matthew 16:26 , expresses more distinctly the reciprocity which is already implied in the simple word in each case. That the main fact alluded to here is the  death of Christ, we know: but it is not brought into prominence, being included in, and superseded by the far greater and more comprehensive fact, that He gave HIMSELF, in all that He undertook for our redemption: see Php 2:5-8 )  on behalf of all (not of a portion of mankind, but of  all men ; the point of 1 Timothy 2:1 , ὑπὲρ  πάντων ἀνθρώπων ),  the testimony (‘that which was (to be) testified:’ so St. John frequently uses μαρτυρία , 1 John 5:9-11 ; “an accusative in apposition with the preceding sentence.” Ellicott. This oneness of the Mediator, involving in itself the universality of Redemption, was the great subject of Christian testimony: see below)  in its own seasons (reff.; in the times which God had appointed for it. On the  temporal dative , see Ellicott’s note),  for (towards)  which (the μαρτύριον )  I was placed as a herald (pastoral Epistles and 2 Pet. only: but see 1 Corinthians 1:21 ; 1Co 1:23 ; 1 Corinthians 9:27 ; 1Co 15:14 )  and apostle (the proclaiming this universality of the Gospel was the one object towards which my appointment as an apostle and preacher was directed. Those who hold the spuriousness of our Epistle regard this returning to himself and his own case on the part of the writer as an evidence of his being one who was acting the part of Paul. So Schleierm. and De W. They have so far truth on their side, that we must recognize here a characteristic increase of the frequency of these personal vindications on the part of the Apostle, as we so often have occasion to remark during these Epistles: the disposition of one who had been long opposed and worried by adversaries to recur continually to his own claims, the assertion of which had now become with him almost, so to speak, a matter of stock-phrases. Still, the propriety of the assertion here is evident: it is only in the manner of it that the above habit is discernible. See more on this in the Prolegomena. The same phrase occurs verbatim in ref. 2 Tim.),  I speak the truth, I lie not (in spite of all that Huther and Wiesinger say of the evident appropriateness of this solemn asseveration here, I own I am unable to regard it as any more than a strong and interesting proof of the growth of a habit in the Apostle’s mind, which we already trace in 2 Corinthians 11:31 , Romans 9:1 , till he came to use the phrase with less force and relevance than he had once done. Nothing can be more natural than that one whose life was spent in strong conflict and assertion of his Apostleship, should repeat the fervour of his usual asseveration, even when the occasion of that fervour had passed away. Nor can I consent to abandon such a view because it is designated “questionable and precarious” by Ellic., who is too apt in cases of difficulty, to evade the real conflict of decision by strong terms of this kind)  a teacher of the Gentiles (it was especially in this latter fact that the ὑπὲρ πάντων ἀνθρώπων found its justification. The historical proof of his constitution as a teacher of the Gentiles is to be found in Acts 9:15 ; Acts 22:21 ; Acts 26:17 ; but especially in Gal 2:9 )  in (  the )  faith and (  the )  truth (do these words refer subjectively to his own conduct in teaching the Gentiles, or objectively to that in which he was to instruct them? The former view is taken by Thdrt. and most Commentators: μετὰ τῆς προσηκούσης πίστεως καὶ ἀληθείας τοῦτο πᾶσι προσφέρω : the latter by Heydenreich, al. Huther (also Ellic.) takes the words as signifying the  sphere in which he was appointed to fulfil his office of  διδ . ἐθνῶν , πίστις being  faith , the subjective relation, and ἀλήθεια  the truth , the objective good which is appropriated by faith: Wiesinger, as meaning that he is, in the right faith and in the truth, the  διδ . ἔθν . Bengel regards them merely as another asseveration belonging to the assertion that he is διδ . ἔθν ., ‘in faith and truth I say it.’ This latter at once discommends itself, from its exceeding flatness: though Chrys. also seems to have held it ἐν πίστει πάλιν · ἀλλὰ μὴ νομίσῃς ἐπειδὴ ἐν πίστει ἤκουσας , ὅτι ἀπάτη τὸ πρᾶγμά ἐστι . καὶ γὰρ ἐν ἀληθείᾳ φησίν . εἰ δὲ ἀλήθεια , οὐκ ἔστι ψεῦδος . In judging between these, we must take into account the usage of ἀλήθεια above, 1 Timothy 2:4 , in a very similar reference, when it was to be matter of teaching to all men. There it undoubtedly is, though anarthrous,  the truth of God. I would therefore take it similarly here, as Wiesinger, the sphere in which both his teaching and their learning was to be employed  the truth of the Gospel . Then, if so, it is surely harsh to make ἐν πίστει subjective, especially as the ἐν is not repeated before ἀληθείᾳ . It too will most properly be objective, and likewise regard that in which, as an element or sphere, he was to teach and they to learn:  the faith . This ἐν π . κ . ἀλ . will be, not the object of διδάσκαλ ., but the sphere or element in which he is the διδάσκαλος ).