 1 15 .]  General regulations respecting public intercessory prayers for all men ( 1Ti 2:1-4 ):  from which he digresses into a proof of the universality of the gospel ( 1Ti 2:4-7 )  then returns to the part to be taken by the male sex in public prayer ( 1Ti 2:8 ):  which leads him to treat of the proper place and subjection of women ( 1Ti 2:9-15 ).  I exhort then (‘  οὖν is without any logical connexion,’ says De W. Certainly, with what immediately precedes; but the account to be given of it is, that it takes up the general subject of the Epistle, q. d., ‘what I have then to say to thee by way of command and regulation, is this:’ see 2 Timothy 2:1 . “The particle οὖν has its proper collective force (‘ad ea, quæ antea posita sunt, lectorem revocat.’ Klotz.): ‘continuation and retrospect,’ Donaldson, Gr. § 604.” Ellic.),  first of all (to be joined with  παρακαλῶ , not, as Chr. ( τί δ ʼ ἐστὶ τὸ πρῶτον πάντων ; τουτέστιν , ἐν τῇ λατρεία τῇ καθημερινῇ ), Thl., Calv., Est., Bengel, Conyb., E. V., and Luther, with  ποιεῖσθαι , in which case, besides other objections, the verb would certainly have followed all the substantives, and probably would have taken πρῶτον πάντων with it. It is, in order and importance, his first exhortation)  to make (cf. ref. Phil. It has been usual to take  ποιεῖσθαι  passive : and most Commentators pass over the word without remark. In such a case, the appeal must be to our sense of the propriety of the middle or passive meaning, according to the arrangement of the words, and spirit of the sentence. And thus I think we shall decide for the middle. In the prominent position of ποιεῖσθαι , if it were passive, and consequently objective in meaning, ‘that prayer, &c. be made,’ it can hardly be passed over without an emphasis, which here it manifestly cannot have. If on the other hand it is middle, it is subjective, belonging to the person or persons who are implied in παρακαλῶ : and thus serves only as a word of passage to the more important substantives which follow. And in this way the Greek fathers themselves took it: e.g. Chrys. πῶς ὑπὲρ παντὸς τοῦ κόσμου , καὶ βασιλέων , κ . τ . λ . ποιούμεθα τὴν δέησιν )  supplications, prayers, intercessions (the two former words,  δεήσεις and  προσευχαί , are perhaps best distinguished as in Ephesians 6:18 , by taking προσευχή for  prayer in general, δέησις for  supplication or  petition , the special content of any particular prayer. See Ellicott’s note cited there, and cf. ref. Phil.
	 ἐντεύξεις , judging from the cognate verbs ἐντυγχάνω , and ὑπερεντυγχάνω (reff. Rom.), should be marked with a reference to ‘request concerning  others ,’ i.e.  intercessory prayer. (Ellic. denies this primary reference, supporting his view by ch. 1 Timothy 4:5 , where, he says, such a meaning would be inappropriate. But is not the meaning in that very place most appropriate? It is not there intercession for a  person : but it is by ἔντευξις , prayer on its behalf and over it, that πᾶν κτίσμα is hallowed. The meaning in Polybius, copiously illustrated by Raphel, an  interview or appointed meeting,  compellatio aliqua de re , would in the N. T., where the word and its cognates are always used in reference to prayer, for persons or things, necessarily shade off into that of pleading or intercession.) Very various and minute distinctions between the three have been imagined: e.g. Theodoret: δέησις μέν ἐστιν ὑπὲρ ἀπαλλαγῆς τινῶν λυπηρῶν ἱκετεία προσφερομένη · προσευχὴ δέ , αἴτησις ἀγαθῶν · ἔντευξις δέ , κατηγορία τῶν ἀδικούντων : Origen, περὶ εὐχῆς , § 14 (not 44, as in Wetst. and Huther), vol. i. p. 220, ἡγοῦμαι τοίνυν , δέησιν μὲν εἶναι τὴν ἐλλείποντός τινι μεθ ʼ ἱκετείας περὶ τοῦ ἐκείνου τυχεῖν ἀναπεμπομένην εὐχήν · τὴν δὲ προσευχήν , τὴν μετὰ δοξολογίας περὶ μειζόνων μεγαλοφυέστερον ἀναπεμπομένην ὑπό του · ἔντευξιν δέ , τὴν ὑπὸ παῤῥησίαν τινὰ πλείονα ἔχοντος περί τινων ἀξίωσιν πρὸς θεόν · κ . τ . λ . The most extraordinary of all is Aug.’s view, that the four words refer to the liturgical form of administration of the Holy Communion δεήσεις being “  precationes … quas facimus in celebratione sacramentorum antequam illud quod est in Domini mensa incipiat benedici:  orationes ( προσευχαί ), cum benedicitur et sanctificatur: …  interpellations vel …  postulationes ( ἐντεύξεις ), fiunt cum populus benedicitur: … quibus peractis, et participate tanto sacramento, εὐχαριστία ,  gratiarum actio , cuncta concludit.” Ep. cxlix. (lix.) 16, vol. ii. p. 636 f.),  thanksgivings, for all men (this gives the intercessory character to all that have preceded. On the wideness of Christian benevolence here inculcated, see the argument below, and Tit 3:2 );  for (i.e. ‘especially for’ this one particular class being mentioned and no other)  kings (see Titus 3:1 ; Rom 13:1 ff.; 1 Peter 2:13 . It was especially important that the Christians should include earthly powers in their formal public prayers, both on account of the object to be gained by such prayer (see next clause), and as an effectual answer to those adversaries who accused them of rebellious tendencies. Jos. (B. J. ii. 10. 4) gives the Jews’ answer to Petronius, Ἰουδαῖοι περὶ μὲν Καίσαρος καὶ τοῦ δήμου τῶν Ῥωμαίων δὶς τῆς ἡμέρας θύειν ἔφασαν , and afterwards (ib. 17. 2), he ascribes the origin of the war to their refusing, at the instigation of Eleazar, to continue the sacrifices offered on behalf of their Gentile rulers. See Wetst., who gives other examples: and compare the ancient liturgies e.g. the bidding prayers, Bingham, book xv. 1. 2: the consecration prayer, ib. 3.1, and on the general practice, ib. 3. 14. ‘  Kings ’ must be taken generally, as it is indeed generalized in the following words: not understood to mean ‘  Cæsar and his assessors in the supreme power ,’ as Baur, who deduces thence an argument that the Epistle was written under the Antonines, when such an association was usual)  and all that are in eminence (not absolutely in  authority , though the context, no less than common sense, shews that it would be so. Cf. Polyb. v. 41. 3, τοῖς ἐν ὑπεροχαῖς οὖσι περὶ τὴν αὐλήν . He, as well as Josephus (e.g. Antt. vi. 4. 3), uses ὑπεροχαί absolutely for authorities: see Schweigh. Lex. Polyb. Thdrt. gives a curious reason for the addition of these words: μάλα σοφῶς τὸ κοινὸν τῶν ἀνθρώπων προστέθεικεν , ἵνα μή τις κολακείαν νομίσῃ τὴν ὑπὲρ τῶν βασιλέων εὐχήν . The succeeding clause furnishes reason enough: the security of Christians would often be more dependent on inferior officers than even on kings themselves),  that (aim of the prayer not, as Heydenreich and Matthies, subjective, that by such prayer Christian men’s minds may be tranquillized and disposed to obey, but objective, that we may obtain the blessing mentioned, by God’s influencing the hearts of our rulers: or as Chrys., that we may be in security by their being preserved in safety)  we may pass (more than ‘  lead ’ ( ἄγειν ): it includes the whole of the period spoken of: thus Aristoph. Vesp. 1006 (see also Eccles. 240), ὥσθ ʼ ἡδέως διάγειν σε τὸν λοιπὸν χρόνον , Soph. Œd. Col. 1615, τὸ λοιπὸν ἤδη τὸν βίον διάξετον : see numerous other examples in Wetst.)  a quiet (the adjective  ἤρεμος is a late word, formed on the classical adverb ἠρέμα , the proper adjective of which is ἠρεμαῖος , used by Plato, Rep. p. 307 a, Legg. 734 a &c. Cf. Palm and Rost’s Lex. sub voce)  and tranquil life ( ἐκείνων γὰρ πρυτανευόντων εἰρήνην , μεταλαγχάνομεν καὶ ὑμεῖς τῆς γαλήνης , καὶ ἐν ἡσυχίᾳ τῆς εὐσεβείας ἐκπληροῦμεν τοὺς νόμους , Thdrt. On the distinction between ἤρεμος , tranquil from trouble  without , and ἡσύχιος , from trouble  within , see Ellicott’s note)  in all (‘possible,’ ‘requisite’)  piety (I prefer this rendering to ‘  godliness ,’ as more literal, and because I would reserve that word as the proper one for θεοσέβεια : see 1Ti 2:10 below.  εὐσέβεια is one of the terms peculiar in this meaning to the pastoral Epistles, the second Epistle of Peter (reff.), and Peter’s speech in Acts 3:12 . See Prolegg., and note on Act 3:12 )  and gravity (so Conyb.: and it seems best to express the meaning. For as Chrys., εἰ γὰρ μὴ ἐσώζοντο , μηδὲ εὐδοκίμουν ἐν τοῖς πολέμοις , ἀνάγκη καὶ τὰ ἡμέτερα ἐν ταραχαῖς εἶναι καὶ θορύβοις . ἢ γὰρ καὶ αὐτοὺς ἡμᾶς στρατεύεσθαι ἔδει , κατακοπέντων ἐκείνων · ἢ φεύγειν πανταχοῦ καὶ πλανᾶσθαι : and thus the gravity and decorum of the Christian life would be broken up).