Ver. 17, 18. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken,.... By the slaughter of the infants at Bethlehem was literally accomplished what had been predicted byJeremy the prophet, in Jeremiah 31:15.in Rama was there a voice heard, c. That this prophecy belongs not to the Babylonish captivity, but the times of the Messiah, appears from the whole context which manifestly speaks of the miraculous conception of Christ, of the blessings of his kingdom to be enjoyed by his people, and of the new covenant to be made with them, as I have shown in another place r. Rama was not in Arabia, as Justin Martyr says s, but a town in the tribe of Benjamin,Joshua 18:25 and very near to Bethlehem in the tribe of Juda: between these two places, and near to both of them, was the grave of Rachel,Genesis 35:19 for which reason, and also because Rama belonged to Benjamin, a son of hers, and where, no doubt, many children were destroyed in this massacre, as well as at Bethlehem, Rachel is introduced in the prophecy representing the sorrowful mothers of those parts,weeping for their children; whose distress and grief are signified by several words, "lamentation, weeping and great mourning", to express the excessiveness thereof, for theywould not be comforted; they refused to hear anything that might be suggested to them for their relief, because their childrenwere not, i.e. were dead, were not in the land of the living, and no more to be enjoyed by them in this world. I cannot forbear transcribing a remark made by a noted Jew t upon that passage inGenesis 35:20. "And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave"; to show, says he, that Jacob saw that this thing was of the Lord, and that it would be an help to her children, as it is written, "a voice was heard in Rama", c. wherefore he set a pillar upon her and to show that the affair of her grave, that this היתה לעתיד "belonged to the time to come", he says, "that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day": he means,יום הגאולה, "the day of redemption". And Rachel, in the passage of Jeremy, the Jews u themselves own, means the congregation of Israel.r Prophecies of the Messiah, &c. p. 126, &c. s Dialog. cum Tryph. p. 304. t R. Abraham Seba Tzeror Hammor, fol. 47. 1. u Zohar in Exod. fol. 13. 1. & in Lev. fol. 8. 4.