8. dead bodies—So Vulgate,
	Syriac, and ANDREAS.
	But A, B, C, the oldest manuscripts, and Coptic read the
	singular, "dead body." The two fallen in one cause are
	considered as one.
the great city—eight
	times in the Revelation elsewhere used of BABYLON
	(Revelation 14:8; Revelation 16:19;
	Revelation 17:18; Revelation 18:10;
	Revelation 18:16; Revelation 18:18;
	Revelation 18:19; Revelation 18:21).
	In Revelation 21:10 (English
	Version as to the new Jerusalem), the oldest manuscripts
	omit "the great" before city, so that it forms no
	exception. It must, therefore, have an anticipatory reference to the
	mystical Babylon. 
	which—Greek,
	"the which," namely, "the city which."
	spiritually—in a
	spiritual sense. 
	Sodom—The very term
	applied by Isaiah 1:10 to apostate
	Jerusalem (compare Ezekiel 16:48).
	Egypt—the nation which
	the Jews' besetting sin was to lean upon. 
	where . . . Lord was
	crucified—This identifies the city as Jerusalem, though the
	Lord was crucified outside of the city. EUSEBIUS
	mentions that the scene of Christ's crucifixion was enclosed within
	the city by Constantine; so it will be probably at the time of the
	slaying of the witnesses. "The beast [for example, Napoleon and
	France's efforts] has been long struggling for a footing in
	Palestine; after his ascent from the bottomless pit he struggles much
	more" [BENGEL]. Some
	one of the Napoleonic dynasty may obtain that footing, and even be
	regarded as Messiah by the Jews, in virtue of his restoring them to
	their own land; and so may prove to be the last Antichrist. The
	difficulty is, how can Jerusalem be called "the great city,"
	that is, Babylon? By her becoming the world's capital of idolatrous
	apostasy, such as Babylon originally was, and then Rome has been;
	just as she is here called also "Sodom and Egypt." 
	also our—A, B, C,
	ORIGEN, ANDREAS,
	and others read, "also their." Where their Lord,
	also, as well as they, was slain. Compare Ezekiel 16:48- :, where the blood of ALL
	slain on earth is said to be found IN
	BABYLON, just as in Ezekiel 16:48- :, Jesus saith that, "upon the Jews and JERUSALEM"
	(Compare Matthew 23:37; Matthew 23:38)
	shall "come ALL the
	righteous blood shed upon earth"; whence it follows Jerusalem
	shall be the last capital of the world apostasy, and so receive the
	last and worst visitation of all the judgments ever inflicted on the
	apostate world, the earnest of which was given in the Roman
	destruction of Jerusalem. In the wider sense, in the
	Church-historical period, the Church being the sanctuary, all outside
	of it is the world, the great city, wherein all the martyrdoms of
	saints have taken place. Babylon marks its idolatry, Egypt
	its tyranny, Sodom its desperate corruption, Jerusalem
	its pretensions to sanctity on the ground of spiritual privileges,
	while all the while it is the murderer of Christ in the person of His
	members. All which is true of Rome. So VITRINGA.
	But in the more definite sense, Jerusalem is regarded, even in
	Hebrews (Hebrews 13:12-14),
	as the world city which believers were then to go forth from, in
	order to "seek one to come."