15. sounded—with his trumpet.
	Evidently "the LAST
	trumpet." Six is close to seven, but does not
	reach it. The world judgments are complete in six, but by the
	fulfilment of seven the world kingdoms become Christ's. Six is
	the number of the world given over to judgment. It is half of twelve,
	the Church's number, as three and a half is half of seven, the divine
	number for completeness. BENGEL
	thinks the angel here to have been Gabriel, which name is
	compounded of El, GOD,
	and Geber, MIGHTY MAN
	(Revelation 10:1). Gabriel therefore
	appropriately announced to Mary the advent of the mighty God-man:
	compare the account of the man-child's birth which follows (Revelation 10:1- :), to which this forms the transition though the seventh
	trumpet in time is subsequent, being the consummation of the
	historical episode, the twelfth and thirteen chapters. The seventh
	trumpet, like the seventh seal and seventh vial, being the
	consummation, is accompanied differently from the preceding six: not
	the consequences which follow on earth, but those IN
	HEAVEN, are set before us, the great voices and
	thanksgiving of the twenty-four elders in heaven, as the half-hour's
	silence in heaven at the seventh seal, and the voice out of
	the temple in heaven, "It is done," at the
	seventh vial. This is parallel to Revelation 10:1- :, "The God of heaven shall set up a kingdom,
	which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to
	other people, but it shall break to pieces all these kingdoms,
	and it shall stand for ever." It is the setting up of Heaven's
	sovereignty over the earth visibly, which, when invisibly exercised,
	was rejected by the earthly rulers heretofore. The distinction of
	worldly and spiritual shall then cease. There will be no beast in
	opposition to the woman. Poetry, art, science, and social life will
	be at once worldly and Christian. 
	kingdoms—A, B, C, and
	Vulgate read the singular, "The kingdom
	(sovereignty) of (over) the world is our Lord's and His
	Christ's." There is no good authority for English Version
	reading. The kingdoms of the world give way to the kingdom
	of (over) the world exercised by Christ. The
	earth-kingdoms are many: His shall be one. The appellation
	"Christ," the Anointed, is here, where His kingdom
	is mentioned appropriately for the first time used in Revelation. For
	it is equivalent to KING.
	Though priests and prophets also were anointed, yet this term
	is peculiarly applied to Him as King, insomuch that "the Lord's
	anointed" is His title as KING,
	in places where He is distinguished from the priests. The glorified
	Son of man shall rule mankind by His transfigured Church in heaven,
	and by His people Israel on earth: Israel shall be the priestly
	mediator of blessings to the whole world, realizing them first. 
	he—not emphatic in the
	Greek.
shall reign for ever and
	ever—Greek, "unto the ages of the ages." Here
	begins the millennial reign, the consummation of "the mystery of
	God" (Revelation 10:7).