 6 .] ‘And let us remember, when we say an election  of grace , how much those words imply: viz. nothing short of the entire exclusion of all human  work from the question. Let these two terms be regarded as, and kept, distinct from one another, and do not let us attempt to mix them and so destroy the meaning of each.’ So that the meaning of the verse is to clear up and remove all doubt concerning the meaning of ‘  election of grace ,’ and to profess on the part of the Apostle perfect readiness to accept his own words in their full sense, and to abide by them. This casts some light on the question of the genuineness of the bracketed clause (see authorities in var. readd.). The object being  precision , it is much more probable that the Apostle should have written both clauses in their present formal parallelism, and that the second should have been early omitted from its seeming superfluity, than that it should have been inserted from the margin. Besides which, as Fritz. has remarked, the words do not correspond sufficiently with those of the first clause to warrant the supposition of their having been constructed to tally with it: we have for χάριτι in the first, ἐξ ἔργων in the second, for γίνεται χάρις , ἐστὶν ἔργον ; and the plur. ἔργα would probably have been retained in the inference of clause 2.  But (directing attention to the  consequence of the admission, ἐκλ .  χάριτος  ) if by grace (the selection has been made),  it is no longer (when we have conceded that, we have excluded its being)  of (arising out of, as its source)  works: for (  in that case )  grace no longer becomes (i.e. becomes no longer loses its efficacy and character as)  grace (the freedom and ‘proprio motu’ character, absolutely necessary to the idea of  grace , are lost, the act having been prompted from without):  but if of (arising out of, as the cause and source of the selection)  works, no longer is it (the act of selection)  grace; for (in that case) work no longer is work (the essence of work, in our present argument, being ‘  that which earns reward ,’ and the reward being, as supposed, the election  to be of the remnant , if so earned, there can be no admixture of divine favour in the matter; it must be  all earned, or none: none conferred by free grace, or all ). These cautions of the Apostle are decisive against all attempts at compromise between the two great antagonist hypotheses, of salvation by God’s free grace, and salvation by man’s meritorious works. The two  cannot be combined without destroying the plain meaning of words. If now the Apostle’s object in this verse be to guard carefully the doctrine of election by free grace from any attempt at an admixture of man’s work,  why is he anxious to do this  just at this point ? I conceive, because he is immediately about to enter on a course of exposition of the divine dealings, in which, more than ever before, he  rests all upon God’s sovereign purpose , while at the same time he shews that purpose, though apparently severe, to be one,  on the whole, of grace and love .