 15. ]  For (a reason for my anxiety for the salvation of Israel: not merely for the sake of mine own kinsmen, but because their recovery will bring about the blessed consummation of all believers. Rom 11:13-14 should not then be in a parenthesis)  if the rejection of them (not ‘  their loss ,’ as Luth. and Beng., by which the antithesis to πρόσλημψις is weakened)  be (the occasion of)  the reconciliation of the world (of the Gentiles, viz. to God),  what (‘  qualis ,’ ‘of what kind,’ in its effect) (  will be) their reception, but (the occasion of)  life from the dead!  ξωὴ ἐκ νεκρ . may be variously taken. (1) it may be metaphorical, as in ch. Romans 6:13 , and may import, that so general a conversion of the world would take place, as would be like life from the dead. So, more or less, Calv., Calov., Estius, Bengel, Stuart, Hodge, al., and Theophyl., Phot [104] , who explain it of a joy like that of the resurrection. But against this interpretation lies the objection, that  this is already involved in καταλλαγὴ κόσμ ., and thus no new idea would be brought out by the words, which stand in the most emphatic position. (2) it may mean that ‘life from the dead’  literally should follow on the restoration of the Jewish people; i.e. that the Resurrection, the great consummation, is bound up with it. So Chrys., Orig [105] (“tunc enim erit assumptio Israel, quando jam et mortui vitam recipient, et mundus ex corruptibili incorruptibilis fiet, et mortales immortalitate donabuntur”), Theodoret, Reiche, Meyer, Fritzsche, Rückert Exodus 2:0 , Tholuck, al. The objection to this view seems to be, that the Apostle would hardly have used ζωὴ ἐκ νεκρῶν thus predicatively, if he had meant by it a fixed and predetermined  event ; but that, standing as it does, it must be  qualitative , implying  some further blessed state of the reconciled world, over and above the mere reconciliation. This might well be designated ‘  life from the dead ,’ and in it may be  implied the glories of the first resurrection, and deliverance from the bondage of corruption, without supposing the words ζωὴ ἐκ νεκρῶν = ἡ ἀνάστασις τῶν νεκ . Stuart well compares Ezekiel 37:1-14 , which was perhaps before the mind of the Apostle: but he gives a mere ethical interpretation to it.
	 [104] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	 [105] Origen, b. 185, d. 254