 8. ]  but the rest were hardened (not ‘  blinded ;’ see note on Ephesians 4:18 : σκληροτέραν ἡ ἀπιστία τὴν καρδίαν αὐτῶν ἀπειργάσατο . Theodoret. It is passive, and implies  God as the agent . This for the sake of the context, ἔδωκεν αὐτοῖς  ὁ θεὸς κ . τ . λ ., not necessarily for the meaning of the word itself, which might indicate ‘became hard,’ but certainly  does not here ),  as it is written (if we are to regard these passages as merely  analogous instances of the divine dealings, we must remember that the  perspective of prophecy , in stating such cases,  embraces all analogous ones , the divine dealings being self-consistent, and  especially that great one , in which the words are most prominently fulfilled),  God gave to them (LXX and Heb., πεπότικεν ὑμᾶς )  a spirit (see reff.)  of stupor (there is at the end of Fritzsche’s commentary on this chapter an elaborate excursus on κατάνυξις , in which he has thoroughly investigated its derivation and meaning. He comes to the conclusion that it is derived from κατανύσσω , ‘compungo,’ and  might signify any excitement of mind, pity, sadness, &c., but in the few places where it occurs, it  does import  stupor or  numbness : so ref. Ps. ἐπότισας ἡμᾶς οἶνον κατανύξεως , which Hammond explains to mean the stupifying wine given to them that were to be put to death. Hamm. also cites from Marcus Eremita, νουθες . ψυχ . p. 948, a passage where he describes πόνον τῆς κατανύξεως as the consequence of οἰνοποσίαι . Tholuck compares the similar meanings of ‘frappé,’  struck ,  betroffen ),  eyes that they should not see (such eyes that they might not see: in the Heb. and LXX the negative is joined with the verb, καὶ οὐκ ἔδωκεν κύριος ὁ θ . ὑμῶν κ . τ . λ .)  and ears that they should not hear unto this present day . These last words are not, as Beza, E. V., Griesb., Knapp, to be separated from the citation, and joined to ἐπωρώθησαν : they belong to the words in Deut. and are adduced by St. Paul as applying to the day then present, as they did to the day when Moses spoke them: see 2 Corinthians 3:15 .