 16 24. ]  Such a restoration of Israel was to be expected from a consideration of their destination and history. This is set forth in similitudes, that of the root and branches being followed out at some length, and their own position, as engrafted Gentiles, brought to the mind of the readers .  But (a further argument for their restoration following on ἀλλά , Rom 11:11 )  if the firstfruit be holy, so also the Iump (not here the firstfruit of the  field , as Grot., Rosenm. (nor is φύραμα the cake made by the priests out of the firstfruits which fell to them, Deuteronomy 18:4 , as Estius, Koppe, Köllner, Olsh., al.); but the portion of the kneaded lump of dough ( φύρω ), which was offered as a heave-offering to the Lord, and so sanctified for use the rest: see ref. Num. where the same words occur);  and if the root be holy, so also the branches .  Who are the  ἀπαρχή  and the  ῥίζα ? First of all, there is no impropriety in the two words applying to the  same thing . For though, as Olsh. remarks, the branches being  evolved from the root , it rather answers to the φύραμα than to the ἀπαρχή , and, as Rückert, the firstfruit succeeds the lump in time, while the root precedes the branches, yet, as Thol. replies,  the ἁγιότης  is the point of comparison , and in ἁγιότης the ἀπαρχή precedes and gives existence to the φύραμα . This being so, (1) the ἀπαρχή and ῥίζα have generally been taken to represent  the patriarchs ; and I believe rightly (except that perhaps it would be more strictly correct to say,  Abraham himself ). The ἀγαπητοὶ διὰ τοὺς πατέρας of Rom 11:28 places this reference almost beyond doubt. Origen explains the ῥίζα to be  our Lord . But He is Himself  a branch , by descent from Abraham and David (Isaiah 11:1 ; Mat 1:1 ), if genealogically considered; and if mystically,  the whole tree ( Joh 15:1 ). De Wette prefers to take as the firstfruit and root, the  ideal theocracy founded on the patriarchs, the  true, faithful children of the patriarchs, and as the branches, those united by mere external relationship to these others. This he does, because in the  common acceptation , the κλάδοι who are cut off ought to be  severed from their physical connexion with Abraham, &c., which they  are not . This objection I do not conceive applicable here: because, as we see evidently from Romans 11:23 , the severing and re-engrafting are types, not of  genealogical disunion and reunion, but of  spiritual . Meanwhile, De W.’s view appears less simple than the ordinary one, which, as I hope to shew, is borne out by the whole passage. (2) Then,  who are indicated by the  φύραμα  and the κλάδοι ? ISRAEL, considered as the people of God. The lump, which has received its ἁγιότης from the ἀπαρχή , = Israel, beloved for the fathers’ sakes: the assemblage of branches, evolved from Abraham, and partaking of his holiness. But one thing must be especially borne in mind. As Abraham himself had an outer and an inner life, so have the branches. They have an  outer life , derived from Abraham by  physical descent . Of this,  no cutting off can deprive them . It may be compared to the very organization of the wood itself, which subsists even after its separation from the tree. But they have, while they remain in the tree, an  inner life , nourished by the circulating sap, by virtue of which they are constituted  living parts of the tree: see our Lord’s parable of the vine and the branches, John 15:1 ff. It is of  this life , that their severance from the tree deprives them: it is  this life , which they will  re-acquire if grafted in again.
	See a very ingenious but artificial explanation in Olsh., who agrees in the main with De W.: and the whole question admirably discussed in Tholuck. The ἁγιότης then here spoken of, consists in their  dedication to God as a people in their being  physically evolved from a holy root . This peculiar ἁγιότης (see 1 Corinthians 7:14 , where the children of one Christian parent are similarly called ἅγια ) renders their  restoration to their own stock a matter, not of wonder and difficulty, but of reasonable hope and probability. I may notice in passing, that those expositors who do not hold a restoration of the Jewish people to national preeminence, find this passage exceedingly in their way, if we may judge by their explanations of this ἁγιότης . E.g. Mr. Ewbank remarks: ‘Holy they are, inasmuch as there is  no decree against their restoration to their place of life and fruitfulness.’ Surely this is a new meaning of ‘holy:’ the same would be true of a Hottentot: in his case, too, there is no decree against his reception into a place (and in Mr. E.’s view, the restoration of the Jew is nothing more) of life and fruitfulness in the Church of God.