 33 .] There is some doubt whether σοφίας and γνώσεως are genitives  after πλούτου , as in E. V., or  parallel with it. The former view is adopted by Thom. Aquin., Luther, Beza, Calvin, Estius, Reiche, and al. The grounds on which Reiche supports it are thus given and refuted by Tholuck: (1) “If these three genitives are co-ordinate, καί must stand either before  all , or before the last only.” But in the case of three nouns placed co-ordinately in this manner, καί is prefixed to the two latter only, see ch. Romans 2:7 ; Romans 12:2 ; Luke 5:17 . (2) “ πλοῦτος is no  qualitative idea, but only a quantitative idea.” But  wherein the riches  consist , is ordinarily indicated by the context; and here there can be but little doubt on the matter, if we compare ch. Romans 10:12 ; in Php 4:19 we also read of the πλοῦτος of God. This also answers (3) “that πλοῦτος without an adjunct expresses no definite attribute of God.” (4) “in the following citation, Romans 11:34-35 , two only of these, σοφία and γνῶσις , are mentioned.” But this may be doubted. Chrys. says, on Romans 11:36 , αὐτὸς εὗρεν , αὐτὸς ἐποίησεν , αὐτὸς συγκροτεῖ . καὶ γὰρ καὶ  πλούσιός ἐστι , καὶ οὐ δεῖται παρ ʼ ἑτέρου λαβεῖν · καὶ  σοφός ἐστι , καὶ οὐ δεῖται συμβούλου . τί λέγω συμβούλου ; οὐδὲ  εἰδέναι τις δύναται τὰ αὐτοῦ , ἀλλ ʼ ἢ μόνος αὐτὸς ὁ πλούσιος κ . σοφός . Hom. xix. p. 653. Perhaps this latter is altogether too finedrawn: but it is favoured by Bengel, Olsh., and Tholuck.
	I prefer therefore the view of Chrys., Theodoret, Grot., Bengel, Tholuck, Köllner, and Olsh., to take πλούτου , σοφίας , γνώσεως , as three co-ordinate genitives:  πλ . denoting the  riches of the divine goodness , in the whole, and in the result just arrived at, Romans 11:32 ;  σοφ ., the divine  wisdom of proceeding in the apparently intricate vicissitudes of nations and individuals:  γνώσ . (if a distinction be necessary, which can hardly be doubted) the divine  knowledge of all things from the beginning, God’s comprehension of the end and means together in one unfathomable depth of Omniscience.
	 How unsearchable are His judgments (the determinations of His wisdom, regarded as in the divine Mind; answering perhaps to γνῶσις . So Thol.: De W. however denies this meaning to κρίματα , and renders it  decrees , referring it to the blinding of the Jews)  and His ways unable to be traced out (His methods of proceeding, answering to σοφία , Thol. But this is perhaps too subtle).