 24. ]  For (proof that, besides God’s undoubted power to re-engraft them, the idea of their being so re-engrafted is not an unreasonable one)  if THOU  wast cut off from the olive-tree which is by nature wild, and wast grafted contrary to nature into a good olive-tree, how much more shall these, the natural branches, be engrafted in their own olive-tree ? It is a question, as Tholuck remarks, whether κατὰ φύσιν and παρὰ φύσιν denote merely  growth in the natural manner and growth (by engrafting)  in an unnatural (i.e. artificial)  manner , or that the  wild is the  nature of the Gentile , and the  good olive that of the Jew , so that the sense would be ‘If thou wert cut out of the wild olive which is thine naturally, and wert engrafted contrary to (thy) nature into the good olive, how much more shall these, the natural branches,’ &c. But then the latter part of the sentence does not correspond with the former. We either should expect the οἱ to be omitted (as is done in some mss.), or must, with Fritz., place a comma after οὗτοι , and, taking οἱ as the relative, construe, ‘How much more these, who shall, agreeably to (their) nature, be grafted,’ &c. Tholuck describes the question as being between a comparison of  engrafting and  not engrafting , and one of engrafting the  congruous and the  incongruous : and, on the above ground, decides in favour of the former, κατὰ φύσιν signifying merely  natural growth , παρὰ φ .,  unnatural growth , i.e. the growth of the  grafted scion . But however this may fit the  former part of the sentence, it surely cannot satisfy the requirements of the  latter , where the κατὰ φύσιν ( κλάδοι ) are described as being  engrafted (which would be παρὰ φύσιν ) into  their own olive-tree. We must at least assume a mixture of the two meanings, the antithesis of κατὰ and παρὰ φ . being rather verbal than logical, as is so common in the writings of the Apostle. Thus in the former case, that of the Gentile, the fact of  natural growth is set against that of  engrafted growth : whereas in the latter, the fact of  congruity of nature ( τῇ ἰδίᾳ ἐλαίᾳ ) is set against  incongruity , as making the re-engrafting more probable.