 12. ] Then the Apostle argues on this, as Meyer well says, ‘a felici effectu causæ pejoris ad feliciorem effectum causæ melioris;’  But (‘  posito , that’ as in last verse taking for granted the historical fact, that the stumble of the Jews has been coincident with the admission of the Gentiles)  if their trespass is the world’s wealth (the  occasion of that wealth, the wealth itself being the participation in the unsearchable riches of Christ), and (this latter clause parallel to and explanatory of the less plainly expressed one before it)  their loss, the wealth of the Gentiles, how much more (shall) their replenishment (be all this)? On ἥττημα and πλήρωμα much question has been raised. I have taken both as answering strictly to the comparison here before the Apostle’s mind, viz. that of impoverishing and enriching, and the genitives αὐτῶν [&c.] as  subjective : q. d. ‘  if their impoverishment be the wealth of the Gentiles, how much more shall their enrichment be !’
	But several other interpretations are possible. (1) ἥττημα may mean as in ref. 1 Cor.,  degradation , and πλήρωμα would then be  fulness, re-exaltation to the former measure of favour, or perhaps, as where Herod. iii. 22 says ὀγδώκοντα ἔτεα ζόης πλήρωμα , ‘their  completion ,’ ‘their highest degree of favour.’ (2) If we regard the meaning of πλήρωμα in Romans 11:25 , we shall be tempted here to render it, ‘  full number ,’ and similarly ἥττημα , ‘  small number .’ So the majority of Commentators: Chrys., Theodoret, Erasmus, Beza, Bucer, Grot., Bengel, Reiche, De W. (but only as regards πλήρ .: he renders ἥττ . with Luther,  Schade ) and Olsh. (see below). Thus the argument will stand: ‘If their unbelief (i.e. of one part of them) is the world’s wealth, and their small number (i.e. of believers, the other part of them), the wealth of the Gentiles, how much more their full (restored) number!’ i.e. as Olsh. explains it, ‘If so few Jews can do so much for the Gentile world, what will not the whole number do?’ But thus we shall lose the ‘  a minori ad majus ’ argument ‘if their  sin has done so much, how much more their  conversion ?’ unless indeed it be said that τὸ ἥττημα  implies a national παράπτωμα . Besides, it can hardly be shewn that ἥττημα will bear this meaning of ‘a small number.’ (3) Tholuck, from whom mostly this note is taken, notices at length the view of Olsh., after Origen, that the idea of a  definite number of the elect is here in the Apostle’s mind, that the falling off of the Jews produces a deficiency in the number, which is filled up by the elect from the Gentiles, as Romans 11:25 ; understanding by πλήρωμα both there and here, if I take his meaning aright, the  number required to fill up the roll of the elect , whether of Jews, as here, or Gentiles, as there. Tholuck, while he concedes the legitimacy of the  idea of a πλήρωμα τῶν σωζομένων , maintains, and rightly, that in this section  no such idea is brought forward : and that it would not have been intended, without  some more definite expression of it than we now find .
	I have thought it best as above, considering the very various meanings and difficulty of the word πλήρωμα , to keep here to that which seems to be indicated by the immediate context, which is, besides, the primitive meaning of the word.
	It must be noticed, that the fact, of  Israel being the chosen people of God , lies at the root of all this argument. Israel is  the nation , the covenant people, the vehicle of God’s gracious purposes to mankind. Israel, nationally, is deposed from present favour. That very deposition is, however, accompanied by an outpouring of God’s riches of mercy on the Gentiles; not as rivals to Israel, but  still considered as further from God, formally and nationally, than Israel . If then the  disgrace of Israel has had such a blessed accompaniment, how much more blessed a one shall  Israel’s honour bring with it, when His own people shall once more be set as a praise in the midst of the earth, and the glory of the nations.