 25. ]  For (I do not rest this on mere hope or probability, but have direct revelation of the Holy Spirit as to its certainty)  I would not have you ignorant, brethren (see reff., used by the Apostle to announce, either as here some authoritative declaration of divine truth, or some facts in his own history not previously known to his readers),  of this mystery (  μυστ . Tholuck in his 4th edition classifies the meanings thus: (1)  such matters of fact, as are inaccessible to reason, and can only be known through revelation : (2)  such matters as are patent facts, but the process of which cannot be entirely taken in by the reason . He adds a third sense, that, which is no mystery  in itself , but  by its figurative import . Of the first, he cites chap. Romans 16:25 ; 1 Corinthians 2:7-10 ; Ephesians 1:9 ; Ephesians 3:4 ; Ephesians 6:19 ; Colossians 1:26 , al., as examples: of the second, 1Co 14:2 ; 1 Corinthians 13:2 ; Ephesians 5:32 ; 1 Timothy 3:9 ; 1 Timothy 3:16 ; of the third, Matthew 13:11 ; Revelation 1:20 ; Revelation 17:5 ; 2 Thessalonians 2:7 .
	The first meaning is evidently that in our text: ‘a prophetic event, unattainable by human knowledge, but revealed from the secrets of God’)  that ye be not wise in your own conceits (that ye do not take to yourselves the credit for wisdom superior to that of the Jews, in having acknowledged and accepted Jesus as the Son of God, seeing that ye merely ἠλεήθητε τῇ τούτων ἀπειθείᾳ , Rom 11:30 ),  that hardening (not ‘  blindness :’ see above on Romans 11:7 , and Eph 4:18 note)  has happened in part (Calvin explains it ‘  quodammodo .… qua particula voluisse mihi duntaxat videtur temperare verbum alioqui per se asperum,’ but there is no trace of such a desire above, Romans 11:7 ; the τινες Rom 11:17 establishes the ordinary acceptation, that a  portion of Israel have been hardened.  ἀπὸ μ . may be joined with πώρωσις , or with γέγονεν : from the arrangement of the words, best with the former)  to Israel, until ( ἄχρις οὗ has been variously rendered by those who wish to escape from the prophetic assertion of the restoration of Israel. So Calv.: “  donec non infert temporis progressum vel ordinem, sed potius valet perinde ac si dictum foret,  ut plenitudo gentium;” al., “while … shall come in:’ but Thol. well observes that ἄχρ . οὗ with an ind., if any thing  actually happening is spoken of, may have the meaning of ‘while,’ even with an aor.: but with a subj. of the aorist, a  possible future event is indicated, which  when it enters puts an end to the former: see reff.)  the completion of the Gentiles shall have come in (scil. to the Church or Kingdom of God, where we, the Apostle and those whom he addresses, are already: as we use the word ‘come in’ absolutely, with reference to the place in which we are. Or the word may be used absolutely, as it seems to be in Luke 11:52 , of  entering into the Kingdom of God .
	In order to understand τὸ πλήρ . τ . ἐθν ., we must bear in mind the character of the Apostle’s present argument. He is dealing with  nations : with the Gentile nations, and the Jewish nation. And thus dealing, he speaks of τὸ πλήρ . τ . ἐθν . coming in, and of πᾶς Ἰσραήλ being saved: having  no regard for the time to the  individual destinies of Gentiles or Jews, but regarding nations as each included under the common bond of consanguinity according to the flesh. The πλήρωμα τῶν ἐθνῶν I would regard then as signifying ‘  the full number,’ ‘the totality ,’ of the nations, i.e.  every nation under heaven , the prophetic subjects ( Mat 24:14 ) of the preaching of the gospel. Stuart denies that πλήρωμα will admit of this meaning. But the sense which he allows to it of “completion, i. q. πλήρωσις ” (?), amounts in this case to the same thing: that completion not arriving till  all have come in: the πλήρωμα τῶν ἐθνῶν importing that which πληροῖ τὰ ἔθνη . The idea of an elect number, however true in itself (‘plenitudo gentium in his intrat, qui secundum propositum vocati,’ Aug [109] cited by Tholuck), does not seem to belong to this passage).
	 [109]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430