 32. ]  For (foundation of the last stated arrangement in the divine purposes)  God shut up (not shut up  together ; σύν , as in so many cases, implying, not  cο -participation on the part of the subjects of the action, but the character of the action itself: so in ‘concludere.’ The sense is here as in the examples, which might be multiplied by consulting Schweig. hæuser’s Index to Polyb., ‘  to involve in,’ ‘to subject to .’ The aor., which should be kept in the rendering, refers to the time of the act in the divine procedure)  all (the reading τὰ πάντα has probably been introduced from Gal 3:22 )  men in (into)  disobedience (general here, every form, unbelief included),  that He may have mercy on all . No mere  permissive act of God must here be understood. The Apostle is speaking of the divine arrangement by which the guilt of sin and the mercy of God were to be made manifest. He treats it, as elsewhere (see ch. Rom 9:18 and note), entirely with reference to the  act of God , taking no account, for the time, of human agency; which however, when treating of us and our responsibilities, he brings out into as prominent a position: see as the most eminent example of this, the closely following ch. Romans 12:1-2 .
	But there remains some question,  who are the  οἱ πάντες  of both clauses ? Are they  the same ? And if so,  is any support given to the notion of an ἀποκατάστασις  of all men ? Certainly they are identical: and signify  all men , without limitation. But the ultimate difference between the  all men who are shut up under disobedience, and the  all men upon whom mercy is shewn is, that by all men  this mercy is not accepted , and so men become  self-excluded from the salvation of God. GOD’S ACT remains the same, equally gracious, equally universal, whether men accept His mercy or not. This contingency is  here not in view : but simply  God’s act itself .
	We can hardly understand the οἱ πάντες  nationally . The marked universality of the expression recalls the beginning of the Epistle, and makes it a solemn conclusion to the argumentative portion, after which the Apostle, overpowered with the view of the divine Mercy and Wisdom, breaks forth into the sublimest apostrophe existing even in the pages of Inspiration itself.