 17 .]  But (introduces a hypothesis involving a seeming inconsistency with the ἁγιότης just mentioned)  if some of the branches (the τινες , as Thol. remarks, depreciates the number, in order to check the Gentile pride)  were broken out (from the tree),  and thou (a Gentile believer)  being a wild olive ( ἀγριέλαιος , the tree, spoken of a sprout or branch of it. Better so than, as Fritz., Meyer, to make ἀγρ . an adj., ‘of wild olive,’ which can only be used of that which  is made out of the wood , as ἀγριέλαιος σκυτάλη . Thol.)  wast grafted in (Clem [106] Alex. Strom. vi. [15] § 119, p. 799 P., enumerates four different kinds of ἐγκεντρισμός , using it as a general term for grafting and budding. The difficulty here is, that the Apostle  reverses the natural process. It is the  wilding , in practice, which is the  stock , and the graft inserted is a sprout of the  better tree . I believe that he  does not here regard what is the fact in nature: but makes a supposition perfectly legitimate, that a wilding graft on being inserted into a good tree, thereby becomes partaker of its qualities. No allusion can be intended to a practice mentioned by Columella, de Re Rust. Romans 11:9 , of inserting a wilding graft into a good tree to increase the vigour and growth of the tree: for this would completely stultify the illustration the point of which is,  a  benefit received by the wilding from the tree, not one  conferred by the wilding on it)  among them (i.e. among the branches, τοῖς κλάδοις : or perhaps αὐτοῖς may imply the  remnants of the branches broken off. The renderings, ‘  in their stead ,’ ‘  in locum ,’ as De W. after Chrys., Theophyl., Beza, and ‘  in their place ,’ ‘  in loco ,’ Meyer, Olsh., are surely inadmissible),  and becamest a fellow-partaker (with the branches: or perhaps simply ‘a partaker,’ σύν not implying  fellows in participation , but merely the participation itself)  of the root of the fatness (of that root, on union with which all the development of life and its fertility depend: which is the source of the fatness. With καί , it will mean, of the source of life, and also of the development of that life itself in all richness of blessing)  of the olive-tree ,
	 [106] Clement of Alexandria, fl. 194