 1 .]  I say then (a false inference from ch. Romans 10:19-21 , made in order to be refuted),  Did (  μή , it cannot surely be, that)  God cast off His people (as would almost appear from the severe words just adduced)?  Be it not so: for I also am an Israelite ( ἐκ γένους Ἰσρ ., Php 3:5 ),  of the seed of Abraham (mentioned probably for solemnity’s sake, as bringing to mind all the promises made to Abraham),  of the tribe of Benjamin (so Php 3:5 ). There is some question  with what intent the Apostle here brings forward  himself . Three ways are open to us: either (1) it is as  a case in point , as an example of an Israelite who has  not been rejected but  is  still one of God’s people : so almost all the Commentators but this is hardly probable, for in this case ( α ) he would not surely bring one only example to prove his point, when thousands might have been alleged ( β ) it would be hardly consistent with the humble mind of Paul to put himself alone in such a place, and ( γ ) μὴ γένοιτο does not go simply to  deny a hypothetical  fact , but applies to  some deprecated consequence of that which is hypothetically put: or (2) as De Wette, al., he implies, ‘  How can I say such a thing, who am myself an Israelite , &c.?’ ‘Does not my very nationality furnish a security against my entertaining such an idea?’ or (3) which I believe to be the right view, but which I have found only in the commentary of Mr. Ewbank, as implying that if such a hypothesis were to be conceded, it would exclude from God’s kingdom the  writer himself, as an Israelite . This seems better to agree with μὴ γένοιτο , as deprecating the  consequence of such an assertion.
	But a question even more important arises, not unconnected with that just discussed: viz.  who are  ὁ λαὸς αὐτοῦ ? In order for the sentence καὶ γὰρ ἐγὼ κ . τ . λ . to bear the meaning just assigned to it, it is obvious that ὁ λαὸς αὐτ . must mean the people of God  nationally considered. If Paul deprecated such a proposition as the rejection of  God’s people , because he himself would thus be  as an Israelite cut off from God’s favour, the rejection assumed in the hypothesis must be  a national rejection . It is against  this that he puts in his strong protest. It is  this which he disproves by a cogent historical parallel from Scripture, shewing that there is a remnant καὶ ἐν τῷ νῦν καιρῷ according to the election of grace: and not only so, but that that part of Israel (considered as having continuity of national existence) which is for a time hardened, shall ultimately come in, and so all Israel (nationally considered again, Israel  as a nation ) shall be saved. Thus the covenant of God with Israel, having been  national , shall ultimately be fulfilled to them  as a nation : not by the gathering in merely of  individual Jews, or of  all the Jews  individually , into the Christian church, but by the  national restoration of the Jews, not in unbelief, but as a  Christian believing nation, to all that can, under the gospel, represent their ancient pre-eminence , and to the  fulness of those promises which have never yet in their plain sense been accomplished to them . I have entered on this matter here, because a clear understanding of it underlies all intelligent appreciation of the argument of the chapter. Those who hold  no national restoration of the Jews to pre-eminence , must necessarily confound the ἐν τῷ νῦν καιρῷ remnant according to the election of grace, with the οἱ λοιποί , who nationally shall be grafted in again. See this more fully illustrated where that image occurs, Romans 11:17 ff.