Hebrews 9:6. Meanwhile he notes the weakness of the old covenant and its fitness for this world only (Hebrews 9:9-10).  And now all these things  the apartments and their contents  having been thus prepared or arranged, into  the first tabernacle  t  he priests go in continually, accomplishing  (performing) the services. The ordinary priests are entering continually,  i.e  without limits prescribed by law, twice at least every day (Exodus 30:7), to do the appointed service, sprinkling the blood of the sin-offering before the veil, dressing the lamps, burning incense on the golden altar, and once a-week changing the shewbread.
	Hebrews 9:7.  But into the second tabernacle, the holy of holies,  the high priest alone once in the year. Into this second part none of the priests were allowed to enter or even to look; but the high priest alone, and he only on one day the tenth day of the seventh month (Leviticus 16:29). On that day he entered within the veil at least three times first with the censer of burning coals and the incense, that the cloud might cover the mercy-seat and intercept the Divine glory (Leviticus 16:12-13); then with the blood of the bullock, which he sprinkled seven times before the mercy-seat (Hebrews 9:14); and then with the blood of the goat, which also he sprinkled on and before the mercy-seat (Hebrews 9:15), so that  not without blood which he offereth for himself and for the errors of the people. It was his business to make atonement for sin, and this could not be done without blood. Nor was it enough that the blood should be shed at the door of the tabernacle; the high priest had to carry with him a portion of it within the veil, and there offer it by sprinkling it on and before the mercy-seat. And this atonement was made for himself and his house,  i.e  the priests generally, and then for the sins of the people (Leviticus 16:6; Leviticus 16:14). Within the holy place the blood was sprinkled once upwards; seven times backwards before and on the mercy seat. The horns of the altar were anointed with the blood of the two sacrifices, and the same mingled blood was sprinkled seven times before it, and then the remainder of the blood was poured out at the foot of the altar of burnt-offering. This offering of the blood is said to have cleansed the people once a year from all their sins (chap. Hebrews 6:16-20). Here the statement of the Law is restricted to sins of ignorance ‘errors,’ a term describing offences committed in no defiance of the Law, or with only a partial knowledge of their turpitude. They are thus marked off from those capital offences and presumptuous sins for which no provisions of mercy was made; in which, therefore, the sinner died without mercy (Numbers 15:27-31; sec also Hebrews 10:28).
	