Hebrews 9:12.  Nor yet by the blood of goats (put first because most characteristic of the Day of Atonement, Leviticus 16:5, etc. the two goats which made one sacrifice)  and calves (called in Hebrews 9:13 bulls; both were males, one of the first year and the other of the second),  but by his own blood  (the same expression as in Acts 20:28, so chap. Hebrews 13:12)  he entered in once for all, etc.,  i.e  by services of a greater and more perfect tabernacle neither of human workmanship nor of created materials. Some regard ‘by’ or ‘through’ in Hebrews 9:11 as  local;  but the use of the same preposition in Hebrews 9:12 in the instrumental sense is against this view. Those who regard it as local interpret differently: ‘Through Christ’s body’ (the true temple) is the common Patristic interpretation. Through the Church; or the world, the outer temple of the Creator; through the lower regions of the heavens; through the worshipping place of blessed spirits (Delitzsch), have all their advocates. Some who understand through as ‘by means of,’ render by means of Christ’s human nature the outer dwelling-place of God. But the interpretation given above is simpler and more natural. We know that Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands (Hebrews 9:24), but into heaven; and so it is not by the services of an earthly tabernacle, but by the services of a tabernacle far grander and more perfect He presents His offering and seeks forgiveness. And  haying obtained (an emphatic form of expression implying energetic effort)  eternal redemption for us. All here is in contrast, and the results not least. The Jewish high priest gained a pardon for the sins of the year, such a pardon as cancelled all ceremonial sin, fleshly defilements, and retained or regained for his worshippers their place in the theocracy; but Christ, by the one sacrifice of Himself, has obtained for us an everlasting deliverance from the guilt of sin, ending in a complete deliverance from the power of it, and that at the price of Himself or of His blood. He gave Himself for us, and He gave His blood, dying in our stead that we might live. Both expressions are scriptural (Titus 2:14; Ephesians 1:7). The word here translated redemption (deliverance by payment of the price, by giving ‘satisfaction,’ Numbers 35:31-32) is the shorter form ( λύτρωσις )  ;  the longer form ( άπολύτρωσις )   is used in Hebrews 9:15, and again in a lower sense in chap. Hebrews 11:15. Both forms are found in St. Paul’s Epistles. Redemption is obtained for us when Christ enters into the holy place, as redemption is made ours when His blood is applied to our consciences; both truths are consistent with the other teaching that atonement expiation was made when He died for our sins.
	