 48. ] See on Matthew 23:34-36 .
	We have here a remarkable variation of expression in Luke 11:49  ,   ἡ σοφία τοῦ θεοῦ εἶπεν here = ἐγώ Matt. Various explanations have been given of this. The difficulty is not the variation just noticed, so much as that  no such passage exists in the O.T. But I have little doubt that the true explanation is this:  the whole saying is a reference to 2 Chronicles 24:18-22 , and so marked a one, that I am surprised no Commentators but Olshausen and Stier should have observed it, and they not thoroughly. That passage opens with remarks of the sacred historian on the delinquency of Judah and Jerusalem after the death of Jehoiada the priest: then Luke 11:19 , ‘  He sent prophets to them, to bring them again to the Lord; and they testified against them: but they would not give ear. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them.… And they conspired against him, and stoned  him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord.… And when he died, he said, The Lord look upon it ,  and require it. ’ The words in our text are not indeed a  citation , but an  amplification of Luk 11:19 there a paraphrase of them, giving the true sense of what the wisdom of God intended by them; enlarging the mere historical notice which laid hold of God’s purpose only by one thread let down to the earth, into the  divine revelation of the whole purpose of God as the counsel of His will in heaven. In Matt. the  Lord Jesus Himself , as became the solemnity of that final and awful close of His testimony to His own who received Him not, stands forth as the doer of this work, the sender of the Prophets and Apostles. (On ‘  son of Barachias ’ see on Matthew 23:35 .)
	Perhaps the strangest solution of the difficulty above noticed is that of Meyer (second ed.), who supposes the words to have been inserted here from Matthew, and introduced as a quotation by ἡ σοφ . τ . θ . εἶπεν , which Luke  puts into the mouth of Jesus Himself ,  lasst hier Jesum selbst reden .
	Bleek attributes the fact of our Lord having made this event the terminus historicus of their murders of the prophets to the position of the books of Chronicles at the end of the Hebrew Canon: and uses it as a proof that they  then held the same place as now.