 39. ] There is not the least improbability or incongruity in our Lord’s having thus spoken  as a guest at a meal (as Strauss, Schleiermacher, De Wette, &c., maintain); His solemn work of reproof and teaching was never suspended out of mere compliment, nor were the intentions of the Pharisees towards Him so friendly as these invitations seem to imply. They were given mostly from deference to popular opinion, and from no love to Him; sometimes even with a directly hostile object. See Luke 11:53-54 , and compare also ch. Luke 7:44-46 . Observe also, that the  severest parts of the discourse in Matt. (Luke 11:13-22 ; Luk 11:33 ) were not uttered on this occasion.
	 νῦν  , i.e. as instanced by your present conduct  Here is an instance of your, &c.
	 τοῦ ποτ. κ. τ. πίν. ] Understand, ‘in the proverb’ or perhaps the application is left to be enthymematically filled up, for the next clause presupposes it.
	 τὸ ἔξωθεν and  τὸ ἔσωθεν of a  man , are not the outside and inside of the body but the outside apparent  conduct , and the inner unseen  motives .
	Some difficulty has been found in the parallelism of τὸ ἔξωθεν τοῦ ποτηρίου κ . πίνακος , and τὸ ἔσωθεν  ὑμῶν : and a proposal has been made (to which I am surprised to see Bleek giving his adhesion) to take ὑμῶν with what follows: “  the inside (of the cup and platter)  is full of your plunder and wickedness .” But surely all verisimilitude is against this, as well as the emphatic position thus given to ὑμῶν . The simple fact is, that the parable and its interpretation are intermixed throughout the whole, the mind of the hearer being left to find its own way in allotting each its part.
	Luk 11:40 seems clearly to me to be a  question , and to mean, as E. V.,  Did not He, who made the outside, make the inside also? i.e. if His works have become unclean and polluted through sin, what is the use of  only partially purging them, not  accomplishing the purgation? must not the cleansing, to be good for any thing,  extend to the whole?
	The making  ὁ ποιήσας to mean, ‘  he who has cleansed ,’ and a negative, instead of an interrogative sentence ‘ye fools, he who has cleansed the outside has not cleansed the inside also’ gives, especially as the same was more strongly implied in Luke 11:39 , the most frigid sense imaginable; and I can only (still, after his second edition) wonder that Stier, after Kuinoel and others, should have adopted it.