 27, 28. ] This little but most instructive incident, here interposed, serves to shew the originality of Luke’s account, and that, whatever its  position may be, it is  itself of the highest authority. The woman apparently was influenced by nothing but common-place and unintelligent wonder at the sayings and doings of Jesus: and she broke out, with true womanly feeling, into a blessing of the mother who bare such a wonderful Teacher. Such seems to be the account of the incident itself.
	Our Lord’s reply is indeed wonderful: (1) In  reproof . He corrects in her the un-apprehensiveness of his word, which had caused her to go no further into the meaning of it than this ordinary eulogy imported, and gives her an admonition how to profit better by it in future.
	(2) In  humility . He disclaims all this kind of admiration for  his humanity: and says not ‘  my word ,’ but  the word of God, which is in fact the same, but takes the view off from Him in his abasement, unto the Father who sent Him.
	(3) In  truth . He does not deny the honour hereby pronounced upon his mother, but beautifully turns it to its true side viz. that which was given her long since μακαρία  ἡ πιστεύσασα , ch. Luke 1:45 .
	Her blessedness consisted not so much in being His mother, as in her lowly and faithful observance of the word of the Lord spoken to her: see ch. Luke 2:19 ; Luke 2:51 . Nor again does He deny that to have borne Him was an honour  μὲν οὖν is ‘imo vero’ ‘yes, indeed, but.’
	(4) In  prophetic discernment . It will be seen that this answer cuts at the root of all Mariolatry, and shews us in what the true honour of that holy woman consisted, in  faith and  obedience . As the mother of the Lord, she represents our human race, unto whom a child is born, a son is given; no  individual exclusive honour is due to her, any more than to Cornelius, who was singled out from the Gentile world, and honoured by an angelic message relative to the divine purposes: if she were, as there is every reason to conclude she was, a believer in her Son,  the Son of man , she  bore Christ in a far higher and more blessed sense than by being His mother in His humanity. And this honour may all believers in Him partake of with her; therefore the Lord says not ἡ ἀκούουσα τ . λ .… but οἱ ἀκούοντες . The last and boldest perversion of these words of our Lord by Father Newman, viz. that He thus does but still further exalt her honour, in that, besides being His mother, she heard His word, and kept it, need only be mentioned, to shew the follies to which able men are abandoned, who once desert truth and simplicity.