 21. ] This parabolic sentence is in close connexion with many prophetic sayings, Isa 40:10 mar [85] ; Isaiah 53:12 , and most pointedly Isaiah 49:24-25 . It will be remembered that the Baptist called the Lord by this name, ὁ ἰσχυρότερος placing after it, it is true,  μου  , but still using it as indicative of the Almightiness of the Son of God, rather than in comparison with himself.
	 [85] Margin. ‘marg-eccles’ denotes that the reading cited is given on the margin as an alteration to be made in reading the passage in church, e.g. the name of our Lord, where the pronoun would otherwise stand at the beginning of a ‘Gospel for the day.’
	The  ἰσχυρός is the adversary, Satan; his  αὐλή  , this present world, John 12:31 ; John 14:30 ; John 16:11 . His goods, or tools, or spoils,  τὰ ὑπάρχοντα = τὰ σκεύη = τὰ σκῦλα , are  the sons of men , 2Ti 2:26 ; 1 John 5:19 (Greek). With these is he clothed and armed, or rather with their  evil capacities , which he furbishes and brightens for his use: with the πανοπλία τοῦ διαβόλου , compare by way of contrast, the πανοπλία τοῦ θεοῦ , Ephesians 6:11-20 . Without these arms and tools he would be powerless: the evil one must have evil men something receptive of evil to work upon. But these the ἰσχυρότερος takes from him, and divides his spoils, Isaiah 53:12 . He  divides his spoils turns to His own use and that of His followers all that good which the enemy had corrupted into evil.
	The Stronger had already come into the strong man’s house the  Saviour , into the  world and was robbing him of his captives, and making them into His own disciples e.g. Mary Magdalene and others: but the work was not fully completed yet, till the Lord, by and in His death, overcame him that had the power of death, i.e. the devil. And that His great victory is still proceeding; He is still taking from him one and another, rescuing the sons of men by the power of His gospel, till the end, when He shall (Revelation 20:1 ff.) bind him in the abyss; and though he be loosed for the final conflict by His sufferance, shall cast him overthrown into the lake of fire for ever. Revelation 20:14 .