 11 13. ] Our Lord sets forth the certainty of our obtaining the Holy Spirit, (the  unspeakable gift , in which all other δόματα ἀγαθά are included,) from our Father, by another ‘à fortiori’ argument, drawn from the love of earthly parents, so far less careful and tenderly wise than He is over His children.
	The construction, as before ( Luk 11:5 ), is a mixed one: half interrogative, half hypothetical. For the rest, see notes on Matthew 7:7 ff. The  egg and  scorpion are added here. The  serpent and  scorpion are the  positively mischievous: the samples, ch. Luke 10:19 , of the δύναμις τοῦ ἐχθροῦ : the  stone , that which is simply  unfit for food . So that God’s answers to our prayers consist of neither useless nor mischievous things, but of His best gift His Holy Spirit in all the various and fitting manifestations of His guidance and consolation and teaching in our lives. This is (because this takes of and imparts to us by leading us continually to Him who is) the ἄρτος of the parable; the ‘paterfamilias’ is our Father in Heaven, with whom however the night is as the day, who never slumbers nor sleeps. It has been noticed how by the hungry traveller coming to the man, may be imported, in the depth of the parable, the awakening in a man’s own soul (which is so precious to him) of that hunger which he has nothing to satisfy, and which none but God can satisfy. The student may, as in the foregoing parable, follow out this clue for himself (provided it be done soberly) with much interest and profit.
	Notice that when  we address God ( Mat 6:9 ), He is ὁ πατὴρ ὁ  ἐν τ  . οὐρ . when  He answers us , He is ὁ πατὴρ ὁ  ἐξ οὐρ . In the former case we go up into Him and His abode; in the latter He comes down to us. The construction is not (Meyer) ὁ ἐν οὐρανῷ ἐξ οὐρ . δώσει : but the one so common in good Greek, ὁ ἐκ Πελοποννήσου πόλεμος , denoting the quarter whence the influence implied in the  substantive comes, which here is the result of that relation implied in πατήρ .