 14 36. ] ACCUSATION OF CASTING OUT DEVILS BY BEELZEBUB, AND DEMAND OF A SIGN FROM HEAVEN. OUR LORD’S DISCOURSE THEREUPON. Matthew 12:22-45 .Mark 3:23-30; Mark 3:23-30 . The reasonings of Greswell to shew that Luke relates an entirely different incident from Matt. and Mark, able and well conducted as they are, fail to carry conviction to my mind. The marks of identity are too many and striking to be mistaken; and on the plan of discrimination which he has adopted, I am persuaded that we might prove four distinct Crucifixions and Resurrections to have happened just as easily. Besides, it is quite impossible to carry the hypothesis throughout this section of Luke’s Gospel: and when it has been once given up, a considerable difference is made in the way of regarding the various narrations. On the side of which Evangelist the strict accuracy lies, it is next to impossible for us now to decide. I am inclined to think with Schleiermacher (transl., p. 190), that the section from ch. Luk 11:14 to Luke 12:53 (or rather perhaps 59) is a connected whole, or, at all events, is intended to form such. But then the whole is introduced ( Luk 11:14 ) without any mark of connexion with the preceding, and terminated as abruptly.
	On the other hand, the narrative in Matt. is introduced by his usual  τότε  , following upon a very general description of  a retirement of our Lord, and His being pursued by multitudes, all of whom He healed; but whether the οἱ ὄχλοι are the same, and the τότε meant to specify that this incident occurred  then and there , is by no means certain. Nor is the close of the section ( Luk 12:50 ) bound very closely to Luke 13:1 , which commences ἐν τῇ ἡμέρᾳ ἐκείνῃ , and can hardly be said with certainty to define  the very same natural day . We may observe that the attendant circumstances, as introduced and closed in Mark 3:20 ; Mark 4:1 , are equally indeterminate. I therefore leave the difficulty where I found it, and where I believe it will ever remain, during our present state of imperfection: only observing, that the important incident and discourse grounded on it is no way thereby invalidated in authority. It seems to have been a portion of the evangelic history, the position of which was not exactly and satisfactorily fixed; of which there have been already some instances (see ch. Luk 9:57-62 ), and there are, as will be seen, yet more as we proceed.