 10 17 .]  Contrast, by way of reminding and exhortation, of the education, knowledge, and life of Timotheus with the character just drawn of the opponents .  But thou followedst (ref. not, as Chrys., Thl., Œc., al., τούτων σὺ μάρτυς , for some of the undermentioned occurred before the conversion of Timotheus, and of many of them this could not be properly said, but ‘followedst as thy pattern:’ ‘it was my example in all these things which was set before thee as thy guide thou wert a follower of me, as I of Christ.’ So Calvin (‘laudat tanquam suarum virtutum imitatorem, ac si diceret, jam pridem assuefactus es ad mea instituta, perge modo qua cœpisti’), Aret., De W., Huther, Wiesinger, all. The  aorist is both less obvious and more appropriate than the  perfect : this  was the example set before him, and the reminiscence, joined to the exhortation of 2 Timothy 3:14 , bears something of reproach with it, which is quite in accordance with what we have reason to infer from the general tone of the Epistle. Whereas the  perfect would imply that the example had been really ever before him, and followed up to the present moment: and so would weaken the necessity of the exhortation)  my teaching, conduct (reff.: and add 2Ma 4:16 ; 2Ma 6:8 ; 2Ma 11:24 ; τῇ διὰ τῶν ἔργων πολιτείᾳ , Thdrt. All these words are dependent on μου , not to be taken (Mack) as applying to Timotheus, ‘Thou followedst my teaching in thy conduct, &c.,’ which would introduce an unnatural accumulation of encomia on him, and would besides assume that he had been persecuted (cf. τοῖς διωγμοῖς ), which there is no reason to suppose),  purpose (ref. τοῦτο περὶ προθυμίας καὶ τοῦ παραστήματος τῆς ψυχῆς , Chrys. Ellic. remarks, that in all other passages in St. Paul’s Epistles, πρόθεσις is used with reference to God),  faith ( ὁποίαν ἔχω περὶ τὸν δεσπότην διάθεσιν , Thdrt.),  long-suffering ( ὅπως φέρω τὰ τῶν ἀδελφῶν πλημμελήματα , Thdrt.: or perhaps, as Chrys., πῶς οὐδέν με τούτων ἐτάραττε , his patience in respect of the false teachers and the troubles of the time),  love ( ὅπερ οὐκ εἶχον οὗτοι , Chrys.),  endurance ( πῶς φέρω γενναίως τῶν ἐνατίων τὰς προσβολάς , Thdrt.),  persecutions (‘to these ὑπομονή furnished the note of transition.’ Huth.),  sufferings (not only was I persecuted, but the persecution issued in infliction of suffering),  such (sufferings)  as befell me in Antioch (of Pisidia),  in Iconium, in Lystra (why should these be especially enumerated? Thdrt. assigns as a reason, τοὺς ἄλλους καταλιπὼν τῶν ἐν τῇ Πισιδίᾳ καὶ τῇ Λυκαονίᾳ συμβεβηκότων αὐτῷ κινδύνων ἀνέμνησε . Λυκάων γὰρ ἦν καὶ αὐτὸς πρὸς ὃν ἔγραφε , καὶ ταῦτα τῶν ἄλλων ἦν αὐτῷ γνωριμώτερα . And so Chrys., and many both ancient and modern. It may be so, doubtless: and this reason, though rejected by De W., Huther, Wiesinger, al., seems much better to suit the context and probability, than the other, given by Huther, al., that these persecutions were the first which befell the Apostle in his missionary work among the heathen. It is objected to it, that during the former of these persecutions Timotheus was not with St. Paul. But the answer to that is easy. At the time of his conversion, they were recent, and the talk of the churches in those parts: and thus, especially with our rendering, and the aor. sense of παρηκολούθησας , would be naturally mentioned, as being those sufferings of the Apostle which first excited the young convert’s attention to make them his own pattern of what he too must suffer for the Gospel’s sake. Baur and De Wette regard the exact correspondence with the Acts (Acts 13:50 ; Acts 14:5 ; Acts 14:19 ; Act 16:3 ) as a suspicious circumstance. Wiesinger well asks, would they have regarded a discrepancy from the Acts as a mark of genuineness?);  what persecutions (there is a zeugmatic construction here understand, ‘thou sawest; in proposing to thyself a pattern thou hadst before thee …’ (I cannot see how, as Ellic. asserts, this rendering vitiates the construction. Doubtless his rendering, ‘  such, persecutions as ,’ is legitimate, but it seems to me feeble after the preceding οἷα .) Heydenr., Mack, al, understand these words as an exclamation: οἵους διωγμ . ὑπήνεγκα ! I need hardly observe that such an exclamation would be wholly alien from the character and style of the Apostle)  I underwent, and out of all the Lord delivered me ( ἀμφότερα (both clauses of the sentence) παρακλήσεως · ὅτι καὶ ἐγὼ προθυμίαν παρειχόμην γενναίαν , καὶ ( ὅτι ) οὐκ ἐγ κατελείφθην . Chrys.).