 16 .] The immense value to Timotheus of this early instruction is shewn by a declaration of the profit of Scripture in furthering the spiritual life. There is considerable doubt about the construction of this clause,  πᾶσα  …   ὠφέλιμος . Is it to be taken, (1)  πᾶσα γραφὴ (subject)  θεόπνευστος (predicate) ( ἐστιν ),  καὶ ὠφ  . , i.e. ‘  every Scripture (see below)  is  θεόπνευστος and  ὠφέλιμος :’ or (2)  πᾶσα γραφὴ θεόπνευστος (subject)  καὶ ὠφέλ  . ( ἐστιν ) (predicate), i.e.  Every  γραφὴ θεόπνευστος  is also  ὠφέλιμος ? The former is followed by Chrys. ( πᾶσα οὖν ἡ τοιαύτη θεόπνευστος ), Greg.-Nyss. ( διὰ τοῦτο πᾶσα γραφὴ θεόπνευστος λέγεται ), Ath., Est. (‘duo affirmantur: omnem scripturam esse divinitus inspiratam, et eandem esse utilem,’ &c.), all., by Calv., Wolf, al.: by De W., Wiesinger, Conyb., &c., and the E. V. The latter by Orig. ( πᾶσα γραφὴ θεόπνευστος οὖσα ὠφέλιμός ἐστι , in Jesu nave Hom. xx. 3, vol. ii.: repeated in the Philocal. c. 12, vol. xxv. p. 65, ed. Lomm.), Thdrt. ( θεόπνευστον δὲ γραφὴν τὴν πνευματικὴν ὠνόμασεν ), al.: by Grot. (‘bene expressit sensum Syrus: omnis Scriptura quæ a Deo inspirata est, etiam utilis,’ &c.), Erasm. (‘tota Scr. quæ nobis non humano ingenio, &c., magnam habet utilitatem,’ &c.), Camerar., Whitby, Hammond, al.: by Rosenm., Heinr., Huther, &c. and the Syr. (above), Vulg. (‘omnis Scriptura divinitus inspirata utilis est,’ &c.), Luth. (  denn alle Schrift von Gott eingegeben ist nütze u. s. w. ), &c. In deciding between these two, the following considerations must be weighed: (a) the requirement of the context. The object of the present verse plainly is to set before Timotheus the value of his early instruction as a motive to his remaining faithful to it. It is then very possible, that the Apostle might wish to exalt the dignity of the Scripture by asserting of it that it was ( θεόπνευστος , and then out of this lofty predicate might unfold καὶ ὠφέλ ., &c. its various uses in the spiritual life. On the other hand it may be urged, that thus the two epithets do not hang naturally together, the first consisting of the one word θεόπνευστος , and the other being expanded into a whole sentence: especially as in order at all to give symmetry to the whole, the ἵνα ἄρτιος ᾖ κ . τ . λ . must be understood as the purposed result of the θεονευστία as well as the ὠφέλεια of the Scriptures, which is hardly natural: (b) the requirements of the grammatical construction of καί , which must on all grounds be retained as genuine. Can this καί be rendered ‘  also ,’ and attached to ὠφέλιμος ? There seems no reason to question its legitimacy, thus taken. Such an expression as this, πᾶς ἀνὴρ πλεονέκτης , καὶ εἰδωλολάτρης , though a harsh sentence, would be a legitimate one. And constructions more or less approximating to this are found in the N. T. e.g., Luke 1:36 , Ἐλισάβετ ἡ συγγενίς σου καὶ αὐτὴ συνειληφυῖα : Acts 26:26 , πρὸς ὃν καὶ παῤῥησιαζόμενος λαλῶ : Acts 28:28 , αὐτοὶ καὶ ἀκούσονται : Romans 8:29 , οὓς προέγνω καὶ προώρισεν : Galatians 4:7 , εἰ δὲ υἱὸς καὶ κληρονόμος . In all these, καί introduces the predicatory clause, calling special attention to the fact enounced in it. Cf. also such expressions as καὶ τοῦτο μὲν ἧττον καὶ θαυμαστόν , Plato, Symp. p. 177 b, σκέψαι τάλαν , ὡς καὶ καταγέλαστον τὸ πρᾶγμα φαίνεται , Aristoph. Eccl. 125, ᾗ μᾶλλον καὶ ἐπετίθεντο , Thuc. iv. 1.
	I own on the whole the balance seems to me to incline on the side of (2), unobjectionable as it is in construction, and of the two, better suited to the context. I therefore follow it, hesitatingly, I confess, but feeling that it is not to be lightly overthrown. See on the whole, Ellicott, who takes the same view.  Every Scripture (not ‘every writing:’ the word, with or without the art., never occurs in the N. T. except in the sense of ‘Scripture;’ and we have it, as we might expect in the later apostolic times, anarthrous in 2 Peter 1:20 , πᾶσα προφητεία γραφῆς . Where it occurs anarthrous in the Gospels, it signifies a passage of Scripture, ‘  a Scripture ’, as we say: e.g. John 19:37 . It is true, that πᾶσα γραφή  might be numbered with those other apparent solœcisms, πᾶσα οἰκοδομή , Ephesians 2:21 , πᾶσα Ἱεροσόλυμα , Matthew 2:3 , where the subst. being used anarthrous, πᾶς = πᾶς ὁ : but, in the presence of such phrases as ἑτέρα γραφὴ λέγει (John l. c.), it is safer to keep to the meaning, unobjectionable both grammatically and contextually, ‘every Scripture’ i.e. ‘every part of (=  in the sense , ‘all’) Scripture’)  given by inspiration of God (as γραφή answers to γράμματα above, so θεόπνευστος to ἱερά . De W. has well illustrated the word: “ θεόπνευστος ‘  divinitus inspirata ,’ Vulg., is an expression and idea connected with πνεῦμα (properly  breath ), the power of the divine Spirit being conceived of as a breath of life: the word thus amounts to ‘inspired,’ ‘breathed through,’ ‘full of the Spirit.’ It (the idea) is common to Jews, Greeks, and Romans. Jos. contra Apion. i. 7, τῶν προφητῶν τὰ μὲν ἀνωτάτω καὶ τὰ παλαιότατα κατὰ τὴν ἐπίπνοιαν τὴν ἀπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ μαθόντων . Æschyl. Suppl. 18; ἐπίπνοια Διός , and similarly Polyb. x. 2. 12. Plato, Republ. vi. 499 b, legg. v. 738 c: Phocyl. 121, τῆς δὲ θεοπνεύστου σοφίης λόγος ἐστὶν ἄριστος : Plut. mor. p. 904, τοὺς ὀνείρους τοὺς θεοπνεύστους : Cic. pro Arch. 8, ‘poetam … quasi divino quodam spiritu af-(l. in-) flari:’ de nat. deor. ii. 66, ‘nemo vir magnus sine aliquo afflatu divino unquam fuit:’ de div. i. 18, ‘oracula instinctu divino afflatuque funduntur.’ First of all, θεόπνευστος is found as a predicate of persons: ὁ θεόπνευστος ἀνήρ Wetst. (from Marcus Ægyptius), cf. Jos. and Cic. in the two passages above, 2 Peter 1:21 , ὑπὸ πνεύματος ἁγίου φερόμενοι ἐλάλησαν ἀπὸ θεοῦ ἄνθρωποι : Matthew 22:43 , Δαυεὶδ ἐν πνεύματι καλεῖ αὐτὸν κύριον : then it was also applied to things, cf. the last passage of Cicero, and Phocyl., Plutarch, above.” On the meaning of the word as applied to the Scriptures, see Prolegg. to Vol. I. ‘On the inspiration of the Gospels:’ and compare Ellicott’s note here. As applied to the prophets, it would not materially differ, except that we ever regard one speaking  prophecy , strictly so called, as more immediately and thoroughly the mouthpiece of the Holy Spirit, seeing that the future is wholly hidden from men, and God does not in this case use or inspire  human testimony to facts , but suggests the  whole substance of what is said,  direct from Himself)  is also (besides this its quality of inspiration: on the construction, see above)  profitable for (towards)  teaching ( ἃ γὰρ ἀγνοοῦμεν ἐκεῖθεν μανθάνομεν , Thdrt. This, the  teaching of the person reading the Scriptures, not the  making him a teacher , as Estius characteristically, is evidently the meaning. It is not Timotheus’s ability as a teacher, but his stability as a Christian, which is here in question),  for conviction ( ἐλέγχει γὰρ ἡμῶν τὸν παράνομον βίον , Thdrt. The above remark applies here also),  for correction ( παρακαλεῖ γὰρ καὶ τοὺς παρατραπέντας ἐπανελθεῖν εἰς τὴν εὐθεῖαν ὁδόν , Thdrt. So Philo, Quod Deus immut. 37, vol. i. p. 299, ἐπὶ … τῇ τοῦ παντὸς ἐπανορθώσει βίου : similarly Polyb. p. 50, 26 al. freq. in Raphel: so Epictetus, ib.),  for discipline (ref. Eph. and note)  in (if the construction is filled out, the παιδείαν is abstract, and the τὴν ἐν particularizes; discipline, viz. that which …)  righteousness (which is versed in, as its element and condition, righteousness, and so disciplines a man to be holy, just, and true):  that (result of the profitableness of Scripture: reasons why God has, having Himself inspired it, endowed it with this profitableness)  the man of God (ref. 1 Tim. and note)  may be perfect (ready at every point: ‘aptus in officio,’ Beng.),  thoroughly made ready (see note on ref. Acts. It is blamed by the etymologists as an ἀδόκιμον . Jos. Antt. iii. 2. 2, has πολεμεῖν πρὸς ἀνθρώπους τοῖς πᾶσι καλῶς ἐξηρτισμένους )  to every good work (rather to be generally understood than officially: the man of God is not only a teacher, but any spiritual man: and the whole of the present passage regards the universal spiritual life. In ch. 2 Timothy 4:1 ff. he returns to the official duties of Timotheus: but here he is on that which is the common basis of all duty).