 6 .]  for (reason of the foregoing command, seeing that they are already among you)  among the number of these are they who creep ( εἶδες τὸ ἀναίσχυντον πῶς ἐδήλωσε διὰ τοῦ εἰπεῖν , ἐνδύνοντες · τὸ ἄτιμον , τὴν ἀπάτην , τὴν κολακείαν , Chrys. Cf. Aristoph. Vesp. 1020, εἰς ἀλλοτρίας γαστέρας ἐνδύς . Bengel interprets it ‘irrepentes clanculum’)  into (men’s)  houses and take captive (as it were prisoners; a word admirably describing the influence acquired by sneaking proselytizers over those presently described: attach to themselves entirely, so that they follow them as if dragged about by them a late word, said to be of Alexandrian or Macedonian origin, and condemned by the Atticist: see Ellicott)  silly women (the diminutive denotes contempt)  laden with sins (De W. alone seems to have given the true reason of the insertion of this particular. The stress is on σεσωρευμένα : they are burdened, their consciences oppressed, with sins, and in this morbid state they lie open to the insidious attacks of these proselytizers who promise them ease of conscience if they will follow them),  led about by lusts of all kinds (I should rather imagine, from the context, that the reference here is not so much to ‘fleshly lusts’ properly so called, though from what we know of such feminine spiritual attachments, ancient (see below) and modern, such must by no means be excluded, as to the ever-shifting ( ποικίλη ) passion for change in doctrine and manner of teaching, which is the eminent characteristic of these captives to designing spiritual teachers the running after fashionable men and fashionable tenets, which draw them ( ἄγουσι ) in flocks in the most opposite and inconsistent directions),  evermore learning (always with some new point absorbing them, which seems to them the most important, to the depreciation of what they held and seemed to know before),  and never (on μηδ ., see Ellicott)  able to come to the thorough knowledge (reff., and notes: the decisive and stable apprehension, in which they might be grounded and settled against further novelties)  of the truth (this again is referred by Chrys., all., to moral deadening of their apprehension by profligate lives: ἐπειδὴ ἑαυτὰς κατέχωσαν ταῖς ἐπιθυμίαις ἐκείναις καὶ τοῖς ἁμαρτήμασιν , ἐπωρώθη αὐτῶν ἡ διάνοια . It may be so, in the deeper ground of the psychological reason for this their fickle and imperfect condition: but I should rather think that the Apostle here indicates their character as connected with the fact of their captivity to these teachers.
	With regard to the fact itself, we have abundant testimony that the Gnostic heresy in its progress, as indeed all new and strange systems, laid hold chiefly of the female sex: so Irenæus i. 13. 3, p. 61, of the Valentinian Marcus, μάλιστα περὶ γυναῖκας ἀσχολεῖται , and in ib. 6, p. 63 f., καὶ μαθηταὶ δὲ αὐτοῦ τινες … ἐξαπατῶντες γυναικάρια πολλὰ διέφθειραν : and Epiphanius, Hær. xxvi. 12, vol. i. p. 93, charges the Gnostics with ἐμπαίζειν τοῖς γυναικαρίοις and ἀπατᾷν τὸ αὐτοῖς πειθόμενον γυναικεῖον γένος , then quoting this passage. Jerome, Ep. 133. ad Ctesiphontem 4, vol. i. p. 1031 f., collects a number of instances of this: “Simon Magus hæresin condidit Helenæ meretricis adjutus auxilio: Nicolaus Antiochenus omnium immunditiarum repertor choros duxit fœmineos: Marcion Roman præmisit mulierem quæ decipiendos sibi animos præpararet. Apelleos Philumenem suarum comitem habuit doctrinarum: Montanus … Priscam et Maximillam … primum auro corrupit, deinde hæresi polluit …: Arius ut orbem deciperet, sororem principis ante decepit. Donatus … Lucillæ opibus adjutus est: Agape Elpidium … cæcum cæca duxit in foveam: Priscilliano juncta fuit Galla.”
	The general answer to Baur, who again uses this as a proof of the later origin of these Epistles, will be found in the Prolegomena, ch. vii. § i. De Wette remarks, “This is an admirable characterization of zealous soul-hunters (who have been principally found, and are still found, among the Roman Catholics) and their victims. We must not however divide the different traits among different classes or individuals: it is their combination only which is characteristic.” “Diceres, ex professo Paulum hic vivam monachismi effigiem pingere.” Calvin).