 14 .]  But do thou continue in the things which (the object to ἔμαθες , and the remoter object to ἐπιστώθης , must, in the construction, be supplied out of the ἐν οἷς )  thou learnedst (= ἤκουσας παρ ʼ ἐμοῦ , ch. 2Ti 2:2 )  and wert convinced of (so Homer, Od. φ . 217 f., where Odysseus shews his scar, εἰ δ ʼ ἄγε δὴ καὶ σῆμα ἀριφραδὲς ἄλλο τι δείξω , | ὄφρα μὲ εὖ γνῶτον ,  πιστωθῆτόν τ ʼ ἐνὶ θυμῷ , and Soph. Œd. Col. 1040, σὺ δ ʼ ἡμῖν , Οἰδίπους , | ἕκηλος αὐτοῦ μίμνε , πιστωθεὶς ὅτι | ἢν μὴ θάνω ʼ γὼ πρόσθεν , οὐχὶ παύσομαι . The Vulg. ‘credita sunt tibi,’ followed by Luth., Beza, Calv., besides the Roman-Catholic expositors, would require ἐπιστεύθης , cf. 1Co 9:17 al.),  knowing (as thou dost)  from what teachers (viz. thy mother Lois and grandmother Eunice, ch. 2 Timothy 1:5 ; cf. ἀπὸ βρέφους below: not Paul and Barnabas, as Grot., nor the πολλοὶ μάρτυρες of ch. 2 Timothy 2:2 . If the singular τίνος , then the Apostle must be meant)  thou learnedst them, and (knowing)  that (the Vulg. renders ὅτι  quia , and thus breaks off the connexion with εἰδώς : and so also Luth., ‘  und weil ’ … Bengel (adding, ‘ætiologia duplex. Similis constr. διὰ … καὶ ὅτι , John 2:24 , ἐπιγνοὺς … καὶ ὅτι , Act 22:29 ’). But the other construction is much more natural)  from a child ( ἀπὸ πρώτης ἡλικίας , Chrys. The expression carries the learning back to his extreme infancy: see Ellic. here)  thou hast known the (with or without the art., this will be the rendering)  holy scriptures (of the O. T. This expression for the Scriptures, not elsewhere found in the N. T. (hardly, as Huther, Joh 7:15 ), is common in Josephus: see Wetst.: cf. also reff. 2 Macc.)  which are able (not as Bengel, “ ‘quæ  poterant :’ vis præteriti ex  nosti redundat in participium:” for οἶδας is necessarily  present in signification: ‘  thou hast known … which were ’ would be a solœcism)  to make thee wise (reff. So Hes. Op. 647, οὔτε τι ναυτιλίης σεσοφισμένος, οὔτε τι νηῶν : Diog. Laert. v. 90, in an epigram, ἀλλὰ διεψεύσθης , σεσοφισμένε )  unto (towards the attainment of)  salvation, by means of (the instrument whereby the σοφίσαι is to take place: not to be joined to σωτηρίαν , as Thl., Bengel, al.; not so much for lack of the art. τήν prefixed, as because the τῆς ἐν χ . Ἰησ . would thus become an unnatural expansion of the merely subordinate πίστεως )  faith, namely that which ( σωτηρία διὰ πίστεως being almost a technical phrase, it is best to keep πίστις here abstract, and then to particularize)  is in (which rests upon, is reposed in)  Christ Jesus .