 2 .]  for (reason for χαλεποί )  men ( οἱ generic: the men who shall live in those times)  shall be selfish ( οἱ πάντα πρὸς τὴν ἑαυτῶν ὠφέλειαν ποιοῦντες , Theod-Mops. Aristotle, in his chapter περὶ φιλαυτίας , Eth. Nicom. ix. 8, while he maintains that there is a higher sense in which τὸν ἀγαθὸν δεῖ φίλαυτον εἶναι , allows that οἱ πολλοί use the word of τοὺς ἑαυτοῖς ἀπονέμοντας τὸ πλεῖον ἐν χρήμασι , καὶ τιμαῖς , καὶ ἡδοναῖς ταῖς σωματικαῖς : and adds, δικαίως δὴ τοῖς οὕτω φιλαύτοις ὀνειδίζεται ,  covetous (ref.: we have the subst., 1 Timothy 6:10 , and the verb, 2Ma 10:20 ),  empty boasters ( ἀλαζόνες , καυχώμενοι ἔχειν ἃ μὴ ἔχουσιν , Theod-Mops.: see ref. and definitions from Aristotle in note),  haughty ( μεγάλα φρονοῦντες , ἑπὶ τοῖς οὖσιν , Theod-Mops.: ref. and note),  evil speakers ( κατηγορίαις χαίροντες , Theod-Mops. Not ‘blasphemers,’ unless, as in ref. 1 Tim., the context specifies to what the evil-speaking refers),  disobedient to parents (‘character temporum colligendus imprimis etiam ex juventutis moribus.’ Bengel),  ungrateful ,  unholy (ref. ἐπιμέλειαν τοῦ δικαίου μὴποιούμενοι , Theod-Mops., and Beza’s ‘quibus nullum jus est nec fas’ are perhaps too wide: it is rather ‘irreligious’),  without natural affection (ref. and note),  implacable (it does not appear that the word ever means ‘truce-  breakers ,’ οὐ βέβαιοι περὶ τὰς φιλίας , οὐδὲ ἀληθεῖς περὶ ἃ συντίθενται , as Theod-Mops. In all the places where it occurs in a subjective sense, it is,  ‘that will make’ or  ‘admit no truce:’ e.g., Æsch. Agam. 1235, ἄσπονδόν τ ʼ ἀρὰν φίλοις πνέουσαν : Eur. Alcest. 426, τῷ κάτωθεν ἀσπόνδῳ θεῷ : Demosth. p. 314. 16, ἄσπονδος κ . ἀκήρυκτος πόλεμος : the same expression, ἄσπ . πόλεμος , occurs in Polyb. i. 65. 6. For the primary objective sense, ‘without σπονδή ,’ see Thucyd. i. 37; ii. 22; v. 32, and Palm and Rost’s Lex.),  calumniators (reff.),  incontinent (we have the subst. ἀκρασία , 1Co 7:5 ),  inhuman ( ὠμοί , ἀπάνθρωποι , Œc.),  no lovers of good ( ἐχθροὶ παντὸς ἀγαθοῦ , Thl.),  traitors, headlong (either in action, ‘qui præcipites sunt in agendo,’ Beng.: or in passion (temper), which would in fact amount to the same),  besotted by pride (see note, 1Ti 3:6 ),  lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God ( τὸν λαὸν … φιλήδονον κ . φιλοπαθῆ μᾶλλον ἢ φιλάρετον κ . φιλόθεον . Philo, de agric. § 19, vol. i. p. 313),  having a (or  the ?)  form (outward embodiment: the same meaning as in ref., but here confined, by the contrast following, to the mere outward semblance, whereas there, no contrast occurring, the outward embodiment is the real representation. “The more correct word would be μόρφωμα (Æsch. Ag. 873, Eum. 412), μόρφωσις being properly active, e.g., σχηματισμὸς κ . μόρφωσις τῶν δενδρῶν , Theophr. de caus. plant, iii. 7. 4: there is, however, a tendency in the N. T.: as in later writers, to replace the verbal nouns in - μα by the corresponding nouns in - σις : cf. ὑποτύπωσις , ch. 2 Timothy 1:13 .” Ellicott)  of piety, but having repudiated (not pres., ‘  denying ,’ as E. V., ‘  renouncing ,’ as Conyb.; their condemnation is, that they are living in the semblance of God’s fear, but  have repudiated its reality)  the power of it (its living and renewing influence over the heart and life).
	 Cf. throughout this description, Romans 1:30-31 . Huther remarks, “We can hardly trace any formal rule of arrangement through these predicates. Here and there, it is true, a few cognate ideas are grouped together: the two first are connected by φίλος : then follow three words betokening high-mindedness: γονεῦσιν ἀπειθεῖς is followed by ἀχάριστοι : this word opens a long series of words beginning with ἀ privative, but interrupted by διάβολοι : the following, προδόται , προπετεῖς , seem to be a paronomasia: the latter of these is followed by τετυφωμένοι as a cognate idea: a few more general predicates close the catalogue. But this very interpenetration serves to depict more vividly the whole manifoldness of the manifestation of evil.”  And from these turn away (ref.: cf. ἐκτρέπεσαι , 1 Timothy 6:20 . This command shews that the Apostle treats the symptoms of the last times as not future exclusively, but in some respects present: see note above, 2Ti 3:1 ):