 8 .]  But (q. d. it is no wonder that there should be now such opponents to the truth, for their prototypes existed also in ancient times)  as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses (these are believed to be traditional names of the Egyptian magicians mentioned in Exodus 7:11 ; Exodus 7:22 . Origen says (in Matt. comment. 117, vol. iii. p. 916), “quod ait, ‘sicut Jannes et Mambres (see var. readd.) restiterunt Mosi,’ non invenitur in publicis scripturis, sed in libro secreto, qui suprascribitur Jannes et Mambres liber.” But Thdrt.’s account is more probable ( τὰ μέντοι τούτων ὀνόματα οὐκ ἐκ τῆς θείας γραφῆς μεμάθηκεν ὁ θεῖος ἀπόστολος , ἀλλ ʼ ἐκ τῆς ἀγράφου τῶν Ἰουδαίων διδασκαλίας ), especially as the names are found in the Targum of Jonathan on Exodus 7:11 ; Numbers 22:22 . Schöttgen has (in loc.) a long account of their traditional history: and Wetst, quotes the passages at length. They were the sons of Balaam prophesied to Pharaoh the birth of Moses, in consequence of which he gave the order for the destruction of the Jewish children, and thenceforward appear as the counsellors of much of the evil, in Egypt, and in the desert, after the Exodus, which happened to Israel. They were variously reported to have perished in the Red Sea, or to have been killed in the tumult consequent on the making the golden calf, which they had advised. Origen, contra Cels. iv. 51, vol. i. p. 543, mentions the Pythagorean Noumenius as relating the history of Jannes and Jambres: so also Euseb. præp. evang. ix. 8, vol. iii. (Migne), p. 412. Pliny, H. Nat. xxx. 1, says, “Est et alia Magices factio, a Mose et Jamne et Jotape Judæis pendens, sed multis millibus annorum post Zoroastrem.” The later Jews, with some ingenuity, distorted the names into Joannes and Ambrosius),  thus these also withstand the truth, being men corrupted (reff.: the Lexx. quote καταφθαρεὶς τὸν βίον from a fragment of Menander)  in mind, worthless (not abiding the test, ‘rejectanei’)  concerning the faith (in respect of the faith: περὶ τὴν πίστιν is not, as Huther, equivalent to περὶ τῆς πίστεως , but expresses more the local meaning of περί : ‘  circa ,’ as the Vulg. here has it. In 1 Timothy 1:19 , περὶ τήν πίστιν ἐναυάγησαν , we have the local reference brought out more strongly, the faith being, as it were, a rock, on, round which they had been shipwrecked).