 13 .] encouragement to fulfil the last exhortation for you are not left to yourselves, but have the almighty Spirit dwelling in you to aid you. “Intelligo,” says Calvin, “gratiam supernaturalem, quæ provenit ex Spiritu regenerationis. Nam quatenus sumus homines, jam in Deo sumus, et vivimus, et movemur; verum hic de alio motu disputat, quam illo universali.”
	This working must not be explained away with Pelagius (in Mey.), ‘velle operatur  suadendo et  præmia promittendo :’ it is an efficacious working which is here spoken of: God not only  brings about the will, but  creates the will we owe both the will to do good, and the power, to His indwelling Spirit.
	 ἐν ὑμ  . not  among you , but  in you , as in ref. 1 Cor., and 2 Corinthians 4:12 ; Ephesians 2:2 ; Colossians 1:29 . The θέλειν and ἐνεργεῖν are well explained by Calvin: “Fatemur, nos a natura habere voluntatem: sed quoniam peccati corruptione mala est, tunc bona esse incipit, quum reformata est a Deo. Nec dicimus hominem quicquam boni facere, nisi volentem: sed tunc, quum voluntas regitur a Spiritu Dei. Ergo quod ad hanc partem spectat, videmus Deo integram laudem asseri, ac frivolum esse quod sophistæ docent, offerri nobis gratiam et quasi in medio poni, ut eam amplectemur si libeat. Nisi enim efficaciter ageret Deus in nobis, non diceretur efficere bonam voluntatem. De secunda parte idem sentiendum. Deus, inquit, est ( ὁ ) ἐνεργῶν ἐνεργεῖν . Perducit igitur ad finem usque pios affectus, quos nobis inspiravit, ne sint irriti: sicut per Ezechielem (11:20) promittit: Faciam ut in præceptis meis ambulent. Unde colligimus, perseverantiam quoque merum esse ejus donum.”
	 ὑπὲρ τῆς εὐδοκίας ]  for the sake of His good pleasure , i.e. in order to carry out that good counsel of His will which He hath purposed towards you: εὐδοκίαν δὲ τὸ ἀγαθὸν τοῦ θεοῦ προσηγόρευσε θέλημα · θέλει δὲ πάντας ἀνθρώπους σωθῆναι , κ . εἰς ἐπίγνωσιν ἀληθείας ἐλθεῖν , Thdrt. Conyb. would join  ὑπὲρ τῆς εὐδ  . with the following verse, ‘do all things for the sake of good will’ and remarks, ‘It is strange that so clear and simple a construction, involving no alteration in the text, should not have been before suggested.’ But surely St. Paul could not have written thus. The sense of  εὐδοκία indeed, would be the same as in ch. Philippians 1:15 : but that very passage should have prevented this conjecture. It must have been in that case here as there, δι ʼ εὐδοκίαν , or at all events, ὑπὲρ εὐδοκίας : the insertion of the article where it is generally omitted from abstract nouns after a preposition, as here, necessarily brings in a reflexive sense, to be referred to the subject of the sentence: and thus we should get a meaning very different from that given by Conyb., viz.: ‘Do all things for the sake of (to carry out)  your own good pleasure.’ It has been proposed (I know not by whom, but it was communicated to me by letter: I see it also noticed in Ellic.’s note, and Van Hengel’s refutation of it referred to) to take  ἑαυτῶν ( Php 2:12 ) as = ἀλλήλων , and render “with fear and trembling labour heartily for one another’s salvation;” thus connecting the ὥστε with Philippians 2:4 . The suggestion is ingenious, and as far as the  mere question of the  sense of ἑαυτῶν goes, perhaps allowable; but see Ephesians 4:32 ; Colossians 3:13 ; Col 3:16 ; 1 Peter 4:8 ; 1 Peter 4:10 ; there are, however, weighty and I conceive fatal objections to it. 1) the emphatic position of ἑαυτῶν , which restricts it to its  proper meaning: 2) the occurrence of ἑαυτῶν , in the very verse (4) with which it is sought to connect our passage,  in its proper meaning μὴ τὰ ἑαυτῶν ἕκαστοι σκοπεῖτε , ἀλλὰ καὶ τὰ ἑτέρων ἕκαστοι : 3) the context, and inference drawn by ὥστε , which this rendering altogether mistakes: see it explained above.