 8 .] My interpretation has hitherto come very near to that of Meyer. But here I am compelled to differ from him. He would join  καὶ σχ  .   εὑρ  .   ὡς ἄνθρ  . to the foregoing, put a period at  ἄνθρ  . , and begin the next sentence by  ἐταπείνωσεν without a copula. The main objection to this with me, is, the word  εὑρεθείς . It seems to denote the taking up afresh of the subject, and introducing a new portion of the history. Hitherto of the act of laying aside the form of God, specified to have consisted in μορφὴν δούλου λαβεῖν , and ἐν ὁμ . ἀνθρώπων γενέσθαι . But now we take Him up again, this having past; we  find Him in his human appearance and what then? we have further acts of self-humiliation to relate. So Van Hengel: “duo enim, ut puto, diversa hic tradit Paulus, et quamnam vivendi rationem Christus inierit, … et quomodo hanc vivendi rationem ad mortem usque persecutus sit.”  And when He was (having been)  found in having (guise, outward semblance; e.g. of look, and dress, and speech.  σχήματι is a more specific repetition of  ὁμοιώμ  . above: and is here  emphatic : ‘being found in  habit , &c. He did not stop with this outward semblance, but …’)  as a man (for He was not  a man , but God (in Person), with the humanity taken on Him: ὡς ἄνθρωπος ἡ γὰρ ἀναληφθεῖσα φύσις τοῦτο ἦν · αὐτὸς δὲ τοῦτο οὐκ ἦν , τοῦτο δὲ περιέκειτο , Thdrt.)  He humbled himself (in His humanity: a further act of self-denial. This time, ἑαυτόν does not precede, because, as Meyer well says, in Php 2:7 the pragmatic weight rested on the  reflexive reference of the act, but here on the  reflexive act itself)  by becoming (see on the aorist participle above. It specifies,  wherein the ταπείνωσις  consisted )  obedient (to God; as before in the δούλου : not ‘  capientibus se, damnantibus et interficientibus ,’ as Grot. See Romans 5:19 , Hebrews 5:8 f., and Philippians 2:9 , διὸ καὶ ὁ θεός , referring to the τῷ θεῷ here understood)  even unto (as far as)  death (the climax of His obedience,  μέχρι θανάτου must not be taken with ἐταπείνωσεν , as Beng., al., which breaks the sentence awkwardly),  and that the death of the cross (on this sense of δέ , see ref., and note there: τουτέστι , τοῦ ἐπικαταράτου , τοῦ τοῖς ἀνόμοις ἀφωρισμένου , Thl.).