 5 11 .]  The exhortation enforced, by the example of the self-denial of Christ Jesus . The monographs on this important passage, which are very numerous, may be seen enumerated in Meyer.
	 Think this in (not ‘  among ,’ on account of the  ἐν χρ  .   Ἰ  . following. On the reading, see various readings, and Fritzschiorum Opuscula, p. 49 note)  yourselves, which was ( ἐφρονεῖτο )  also in Christ Jesus (as regards the dispute, whether the λόγος ἄσαρκος or the λόγος ἔνσαρκος be here spoken of, see below. I assume now, and will presently endeavour to prove, that the Apostle’s reference is first to the  taking on Him of our humanity, and then to his  further humiliation in that humanity):  who subsisting (originally: see on ὑπάρχω and εἰμί , Acts 16:20 . Less cannot be implied in this word than eternal præ-existence. The participle is hardly equivalent to “although he subsisted,” as Ellic., still less “inasmuch as he subsisted;” but simply states its fact as a link in the logical chain, “subsisting as He did;” without fixing the character of that link as causal or concessive)  in the form of God (not merely the  nature of God, which however is  implied : but, as in Hebrews 1:3 , the ἀπαύγασμα τ . δόξης κ . χαρακτὴρ τ . ὑποστάσεως αὐτοῦ cf. John 5:37 , οὔτε εἶδος αὐτοῦ ἑωράκατε , with John 17:5 , τῇ δόξῃ ᾗ εἶχον πρὸ τοῦ τὸν κόσμον εἶναι παρὰ σοί . “Ipsa nature divina decorum habebat infinitum in se, etiam sine ulla creatura illam gloriam intuente.” Beng. See also Colossians 1:15 ; 2 Corinthians 4:4 . That the divine  nature of Christ is not here meant, is clear: for He did not with reference to  this ἐκένωσεν ἑαυτόν , Php 2:7 )  deemed not his equality (notice ἴσα , not ἴσον , bringing out equality in nature and essence, rather than in Person)  with God a matter for grasping . The expression is one very difficult to render. We may observe, (1) that  ἁρπαγμόν holds the emphatic place in the sentence: (2) that this fact casts τὸ εἶναι ἴσα θεῷ into the shade, as secondary in the sentence, and as referring to the state indicated by ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχων above: (3) that ἁρπαγμός strictly means, as here given, the  act of seizing or snatching (so in the only place in profane writers where it occurs, viz. Plut. de Puerorum educ. p. 120 A, καὶ τοὺς μὲν Θήβῃσι κ . τοὺς Ἤλιδι φευκτέον ἔρωτας , κ . τὸν ἐκ Κρήτης καλούμενον  ἁρπαγμόν . One thing must also be remembered, that in the word, the leading idea is not ‘snatching  from another ,’ but ‘snatching, grasping,  for one’s self :’ it answers to τὰ ἑαυτῶν σκοποῦντες above), not ( ἅρπαγμα ) the  thing so seized or snatched: but that here, τὸ εἶναι ἴσα θεῷ , i.e. a  state , being in apposition with it, the difference between the  act (subjective) and the  thing (objective) would logically be very small: (4) that τὸ εἶναι ἴσα θεῷ is no  new thing, which He thought it not robbery to  be , i.e. to  take upon Him , but His state already existing,  respecting which He οὐχ ἡγήσατο &c.: (5) that this clause, being opposed by ἀλλά to His great act of self-denial, cannot be a mere secondary one, conveying an additional detail of His Majesty in His præ-existent state, but must carry the whole weight of the negation of selfishness on His part: (6) that this last view is confirmed by the ἡγήσατο , taking up and corresponding to ἡγούμενοι above, Philippians 2:3 . (7) Other renderings have been: ( α ) of those who hold τὸ εἶναι ἴσα θεῷ , as above to be virtually identical with ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχειν before, Chrys. says, ὁ τοῦ θεοῦ υἱὸς οὐκ ἐφοβήθη καταβῆναι ἀπὸ τοῦ ἀξιώματος . οὐ γὰρ ἁρπαγμὸν ἡγήσατο τὴν θεότητα , οὐκ ἐδεδοίκει μή τις αὐτὸν ἀφέληται τὴν φύσιν ἢ τὸ ἀξίωμα . διὸ καὶ ἀπέθετο αὐτό , θαῤῥῶν ὅτι αὐτὸ ἀναλήψεται · καὶ ἔκρυψεν , ἡγούμενος οὐδὲν ἐλαττοῦσθαι ἀπὸ τούτου . διὰ τοῦτο οὐκ εἶπεν οὐχ ἥρπασεν , ἀλλὰ οὐχ ἁρπαγμὸν ἡγήσατο , ὅτι οὐχ ἁρπάσας εἶχε τὴν ἀρχήν , ἀλλὰ φυσικήν , οὐ δεδομένην , ἀλλὰ μόνιμον κ . ἀσφαλῆ . And so in the main, Œc., Thl., Aug.: Beza, “  non ignoravit, se in ea re (  quod Deo patri coequalis essel )  nullam injuriam cuiquam facere, sed suo jure uti: nihilominus tamen quasi jure suo cessit ” and so Calvin, but wrongly maintaining for ἡγήσατο a subjunctive sense: ‘  non fuisset arbitratus :’ Thdrt., θεὸς γὰρ ὤν , κ . φύσει θεός , κ . τὴν πρὸς τὸν πατέρα ἰσότητα ἔχων , οὐ μέγα τοῦτο ὑπέλαβε . τοῦτο γὰρ ἴδιον τῶν παρ ʼ ἀξίαν τιμῆς τινος τετυχηκότων . ἀλλὰ τὴν ἀξίαν κατακρύψας , τὴν ἄκραν ταπεινοφροσύνην εἵλετο , κ . τὴν ἀνθρωπείαν ὑπέδυ μορφήν : and so, nearly, Ambr., Castal., all.; Luther, Erasm., Grot., Calov., all., ‘  He did not as a victor his spoils, make an exhibition of &c., but ’.… ( β ) of those who distinguish τὸ εἶναι ἴσα θεῷ from ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχειν : Bengel, ‘  Christus, quum posset esse pariter Deo, non arripuit, non duxit rapinam, non subito usus est ilia facultate :’ De Wette,  ‘Christ had, when He began His Messianic course, the glory of the godhead potentially in Himself, and might have devoted Himself to manifesting it forth in His life: but seeing that it lay not in the purpose of the work of Redemption that He should at the commencement of it have taken to Himself divine honour, had He done so, the assumption of it would have been an act of robbery:’ Lünemann (in Meyer): ‘  Christus, etsi ab æterno inde dignitate creatoris et domini rerum omnium frueretur, ideoque divina indutus magnificentia coram patre consideret, nihilo tamen minus haud arripiendum sibi esse autumabat existendi modum cum Deo æqualem, sed ultro se exinanivit .’ And in fact Arius (and his party) had led the way in this explanation: ὅτι θεὸς ὢν ἐλάττων οὐχ ἥρπασε τὸ εἶναι ἴσα τῷ θεῷ τῷ μεγάλῳ καὶ μείζονι . See this triumphantly answered in Chrys. Hom. vi. in loc. Indeed the whole of this method of interpretation is rightly charged with absurdity by Chrys., seeing that in ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχων we have already equality with God expressed: εἰ ἦν θεός , πῶς εἶχεν ἁρπάσαι ; κ . πῶς οὐκ ἀπερινόητον τοῦτο ; τίς γὰρ ἂν εἴποι , ὅτι ὁ δεῖνα , ἄνθρωπος ὤν , οὐχ ἥρπασε τὸ εἶναι ἄνθρωπος ; πῶς γὰρ ἄν τις ὅπερ ἐστίν , ἁρπάσειεν ; (8) We have now to enquire, whether the opening of the passage will bear to be understood of our Lord  already incarnate . De Wette, al., have maintained that the name  χριστὸς Ἰησοῦς cannot apply to the λόγος ἄσαρκος . But the answer to this is easy, viz. that that name applies to the  entire historical Person of our Lord, of whom the whole passage is said, and not merely to Him in his præ-existent state. That one and the same Person of the Son of God, ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχων , afterwards ἐν ὁμοιώματι ἀνθρώπων ἐγένετο , gathering to itself the humanity, in virtue of which He is now designated in the concrete, Christ Jesus. So that the dispute virtually resolves itself into the question between the two lines of interpretation given above, on which I have already pronounced. But it seems to me to be satisfactorily settled by the contrast between ἐν μορφῇ θεοῦ ὑπάρχων and μορφὴν δούλου λαβών . These two cannot belong to Christ in the same incarnate state. Therefore the former of them must refer to his  præ-incarnate state.