 1 .] He introduces in the fervour of his affection ( ὅρα πῶς λιπαρῶς , πῶς σφοδρῶς , πῶς μετὰ συμπαθείας πολλῆς , Chr.) four great points of the Christian life and ministry, and by them enforces his exhortation. Mey. observes, that the four fall into  two pairs , in each of which we have first the objective principle of Christian life ( ἐν χριστῷ and πνεύματος ), and next the subjective principle ( ἀγάπης and σπλάγχ . κ . οἰκτιρμοί ). And thus the awakening of motives by these four points is at the same time (so Chrys. above) powerful and touching.
	 παράκλησις ] here,  exhortation , not ‘  comfort ,’ which follows in  παραμύθιον  .   ἐν χριστῷ specifies the  element of the exhortation.
	 παραμύθ  . ] better  comfort , than ‘  persuasion :’ it corresponds (see above) to σπλ . κ . οἰκτιρ . in the other pair: see also reff. παραμυθία , the earlier form, occurs in the same sense 1 Corinthians 14:3 ; Wis 19:12 .
	 ἀγάπης is the subjective genitive, ‘consolation furnished by love.’
	 κοιν  .   πν  . ]  communion, fellowship , of the  Holy Spirit , cf. ref. 2 Cor.: not, ‘  spiritual communion ’ (De W., al.). The manuscript evidence in favour of the reading  εἴ τις is overwhelming; and in Tischendorf’s language, “nobis servandum erit τις , nisi malumus grammatici quam editoris partes agere.” It is in its favour, that almost all the great MSS. have εἴ τι before παραμύθιον . For if εἴ τις had been a mere mechanical repetition of the preceding, why not in one place as well as in the other? And if this were once so, and the former τις got altered back to its proper form, why not this also? The construction may be justified perhaps as analogous to ὄχλου … ἐχόντων , Mark 8:1 ; see also Luke 2:17 ; Luke 7:49 ; though, it must be confessed, it is the harshest example of its kind.
	 σπλάγχνα , of  affectionate emotion in general:  οἰκτιρμοί , of the  compassionate emotions in particular. So Tittm. p. 68 a:  tenderness and compassion , Conyb. ‘  herzliche Liebe und Barmherzigkeit ,’ Luth.
	I may remark, that the exhortation being addressed to the Philippians, the εἴ τις and εἴ τι are to be taken subjectively  If there be with you  any &c.