 17, 18 .] These verses are closely connected with the preceding; not, as De W., al., with ch. Philippians 1:26 , which is most unnatural, and never would occur to any reader. The connexion is this: in Php 2:16 he had tacitly assumed (  εἰς ἡμ . χ .) that he should live to witness their blameless conduct even till the day of Christ.  Now , he puts the other alternative that the dangers which surrounded him would result in his death: and in that case equally he rejoiced, &c.
	 εἰ καί implies more probability than καὶ εἰ : in the former the case is presupposed, in the latter merely hypothesized. Klotz in Devar. p. 519 f., gives two examples from Xen.’s Anabasis: (1) ὁδοποιήσειέ γ ʼ ἂν αὐτοῖς , καὶ εἰ σὺν τεθρίπποις βούλοιντο ἀπιέναι (iii. 2. 24), a supposition evidently thought improbable: (2) ἐγώ , ὦ Κλέανδρε , εἰ καὶ οἴει με ἀδικοῦντά τι ἄγεσθαι (vi. 4. 27), where as evidently the speaker believes that Cleander does entertain the thought. The difference is explained by the common rules of emphasis. In  εἰ καί , the stress is on  εἰ , which is simply ‘  posito ,’ and the ‘  even ’ belongs to  that which is assumed : in  καὶ εἰ , the stress is on  καί ,  even , and the strangeness belongs not to the thing simply assumed, but to the making of the assumption. In the present case then, the Apostle seems rather to believe the supposition which he makes.
	 σπένδομαι ] not future, but  present ;  If I am even being poured out , because the danger was besetting him  now , and waxing onward to its accomplishment. He uses the word literally, with reference to the shedding of his blood. “He represents his whole apostolic work for the faith of the Philippians, as a  sacrifice : if he is put to death in the course of it, he will be, by the shedding of his blood, poured out as a libation upon this sacrifice, as among the Jews (Numbers 28:7 ; Numbers 15:4 ff. Jos. Antt. iii. 9. 4. Winer, Realw., s. v. Trankopfer) and heathens, in their sacrifices, libations of wine were usual, which were poured over the offerings (Hom. Il. λ . 775, σπένδων αἴθοπα οἶνον ἐπ ʼ αἰθομένοις ἱεροῖσιν : cf. also Herod., ii. 39).” Meyer.
	Wetst., al., would render it ‘  affundor ’ ( κατασπένδομαι ), and understand it of the pouring of wine over a live victim destined for sacrifice but wrongly.
	The  θυσία is the  sacrifice : i.e. the  deed of sacrifice, not the victim, the thing sacrificed.  λειτουργία  , priest’s ministration , without another article, signifying therefore the same course of action as that indicated by θυσία , viz. his apostolic labours: see below.
	 τῆς πίστεως ὑμ  . , gen. objective; your faith  is the sacrifice , which I, as a priest, offer to God. The image is precisely as in Romans 15:16 , where he is the priest, offering up the Gentiles to God. And the case which he puts is, that he, the priest, should have his own blood poured out at, upon (i.e. in accession to: not  locally “upon:” for it was not so among the Jews, see Ellic. here), his sacrificing and presentation to God of their faith.
	 χαίρω ] not to be joined with  ἐπί , as Chrys., but absolute,  I rejoice for myself ( οὐχ ὡς ἀποθανούμενος λυποῦμαι ἀλλὰ χαίρω , ὅτι σπονδὴ γίνομαι , Thl.)  and congratulate you (so the Vulg. rightly, and all.: not, ‘  rejoice with you ,’ as most Commentators (even Ellic.). Meyer well observes that the following verse is decisive against this: for if  they rejoiced already, what need of  καὶ ὑμεῖς χαίρετε ? congratulate you, viz. on the fact that I have been thus poured out for your faith, which would be an honour and a boast for you. De W.’s objection, after Van Hengel, that to  congratulate would be συγχαίρομαι is futile: cf. Æschin. p. 34, τὴν Ἑστίαν ἐπώμοσε τὴν βουλαίαν συγχαίρειν τῇ πόλει ὅτι τοιούτους ἄνδρας ἐπὶ τὴν πρεσβείαν ἐξέπεμψεν : Demosth. p. 194, Ῥοδίοις … συγχαίρω τῶν γεγενημένων ):