 7 .]  but emptied Himself ( ἑαυτόν emphatic, not ἐκένωο εν ἑαυτόν .
	 ἐκένωσεν , contrast to  ἁρπαγμὸν ἡγήσ  . he not only did not  enrich himself, but he  emptied himself: He used His equality with God as an opportunity, not for self-exaltation, but for self-abasement. And the word simply and literally means, ‘  exinanivit ’ (vulg.) as above. He emptied Himself of the μορφὴ θεοῦ (not His  essential glory, but its manifested possession: see on the words above: the glory which He had with the Father before the world began, John 17:5 , and which He resumed at His glorification) He ceased, while in this state of exinanition, to reflect the glory which He had with the Father. Those who understand  ὅς above of the  incarnate Saviour, are obliged to explain away this powerful word: thus Calv., ‘  inanitio hæc eadem est cum humiliatione de qua postea videbimus :’ Calov., ‘  veluti deposuit :’ Le Clerc, ‘  non magis ea usus est, quam si ea destitutus fuisset :’ De W., ‘the manner and form of the κένωσις is given by the three following participles’ ( λαβών , γενόμενος , εὑρεθείς ): alii aliter)  by taking the form of a servant (specification of the  method in which He emptied Himself: not co-ordinate with (as De W., al.) but  subordinate to  ἐκένωσεν ἑαυτόν .
	The participle  λαβών does not point to that which has preceded ἑαυτ . ἐκέν ., but to a simultaneous act, = as in εὖ γ ʼ ἐποίησας ἀναμνήσας με (Plato, Phæd. p. 60 D), see Bernhardy, Synt. p. 383, and Harless on Ephesians 1:13 . And so of γενόμενος below. The  δοῦλος is contrasted with ‘equality with God’ and imports ‘  a servant of God ,’ not  a servant generally , nor a servant of man and God. And this state, of a  servant of God , is further defined by what follows)  being made (by birth into the world, ‘  becoming :’ but we must not render the general,  γενόμενος , by the particular, ‘  being born ’)  in the likeness of men (cf. ἐν ὁμοιώματι σαρκὸς ἁμαρτίας , Romans 8:3 . He was not a  man ,  purus putus homo (Mey.), but the Son of God manifest in the flesh and nature of men. On the interpretation impugned above, which makes all these clauses refer to acts of Christ, in our  nature , this word ὁμοιώματι loses all meaning. But on the right interpretation, it becomes forcible in giving another subordinate specification to μορφὴν δούλου λαβών viz. that He was made in  like form to  men , who are θεοῦ δοῦλοι ).