 15 .]  ἄμεμπτοι ,  without blame ,  ἀκέραιοι , “  pure ,  simplices , vulg æth:  sinceres (  i ), Clarom.: ὁ μὴ κεκραμένος κακοῖς , ἀλλ ʼ ἁπλοῦς καὶ ἀποίκιλος , Etym. Mag.… For the distinction between ἀκέραιος , ἁπλοῦς , and ἄκακος , see Tittm. Synon. i. p. 27.” Ellicott. On  τέκνα θεοῦ , see especially Romans 8:14-15 .
	 ἄμωμα ,  blameless : unblamed, and unblamable: Herod. uses it, ii. 177, of a law: τῷ ἐκεῖνοι ἐς αἰεὶ χρέωνται , εόντι ἀμώμῳ νόμῳ . The whole clause is a reminiscence of ref. Deut., where we have τέκνα μωμητά , γενεὰ σκολιὰ κ . διεστραμμένη .
	For the figurative meaning of  σκολιός , cf. reff. Acts and 1 Pet., and Plato, Legg. xii. p. 945 B, ἄν τίς τι εἴπῃ σκολιὸν αὐτῶν ἢ πραξῃ , Gorg. p. 525 A, πάντα σκολιὰ ὑπὸ ψεύδους κ . ἀλαζονείας , κ . οὐδὸν εὐθὺ διὰ τὸ ἅνευ ἀληθείας τεθράφθαι : and on  διεστραμμένη , διεστρέφετο ὑπὸ κόλακος , Polyb. viii. 24. 3.
	 ἐν οἷς , the masculine referring to those included in  γενεά : so Thuc. i. 136, φεύγει ἐς Κέρκυραν , ὢν αὐτῶν εὐεργέτης . See more examples in Kühner, ii. p. 43.
	 φαίνεσθε , not  imperative , as most of the Fathers, Erasm., Calvin, Grot., al., but  indicative , for this  is the position of Christians in the world: see Matthew 5:14 ; Ephesians 5:8 . So De W., Meyer, Wiesinger, &c. &c. It has been said (Mey., Wies., al.) that we must not render  φαίνεσθε ‘  shine ,’ which would be φαίν  ετε : but surely there is but very little difference between ‘  appear ’ and ‘  shine ’ here, and only St. John and St. Peter use φαίνω for ‘  to shine ,’ John 1:5 ; John 5:35 ; 1 John 2:8 ; Rev 1:16 ; 2 Peter 1:19 , not St. Paul, for whom in such a matter their usage is no rule. Ellic. 1) objects that this must not be alleged against the simple meaning of the word, and 2) wishes to give the middle a special use in connexion with the  appearance or rising of the heavenly bodies. But we may answer 1) by such examples as δεινοὶ δέ οἱ ὄσσε φάανθεν , where Rost and Palm translate the passive ‘  leuchteten :’ and 2) by urging that such a reference seems here to lay too much pregnancy of meaning on the word.
	 φωστῆρες , not ‘  lights ’ merely, but  luminaries , ‘  heavenly bodies :’ see ref. Gen.: and Sir 43:7 , Wis 13:2 .
	 ἐπέχοντες ] probably as E. V.  holding forth (hardly, as Ellic., “  seeing ye hold forth ,” but “  in that ye hold forth :” the participle being rather explicative than causal) to them,  applying to them, which is the one of the commonest meanings of ἐπέχειν , see reff. Various senses have been given, e.g. ‘  holding fast ,’ Luther, Estius, Bengel, De Wette, al.: ‘  in vertice tenentes ,’ Erasm.: ‘  sustinentes ,’ Calv.: ‘  possessing ,’ Meyer, who quotes for this meaning Herod. i. 104, οἱ δὲ Σκύθαι τὴν Ἀσίαν πᾶσαν ἐπέσχον , and Thuc. ii. 101, ὁ δὲ τήν τε Χαλκιδικὴν κ . Βοττικὴν κ . Μακεδονίαν ἅμα ἐπέχων ἔφθειρε , neither of which justify it: for in both these places it is ‘  to occupy ,’ not ‘  to possess :’ as also in Polyb. iii. 112. 8, εὐχαὶ κ . θυσίαι κ . τ . λ .… ἐπεῖχον τὴν πόλιν . And this sense would manifestly be inapplicable. His objection to the ordinary rendering, that the subjects of the sentence themselves shine by means of the λόγος τῆς ζωῆς , surely is irrelevant: for may not the stars be said ‘præbere,’ ‘prætendere,’ their light, notwithstanding that that light is  in them? Chrys., Œc., Thl., interpret it, μέλλοντες ζήσεσθαι , τῶν σωζομένων ὄντες · and Chrys. continues οἱ φωστῆρές , φησι , λόγον φωτὸς ἐπέχουσιν · ὑμεῖς λόγον ζωῆς . τί ἐστι , λόγον ζωῆς · σπέρμα ζωῆς ἔχοντες , τουτέστιν , ἐνέχυρα ζωῆς ἔχοντες , αὐτὴν κατέχοντες τὴν ζωήν , τουτέστι σπέρμα ζωῆς ἐν ὑμῖν ἔχοντες : Thdrt., ἀντὶ τοῦ τῷ λόγῳ προσέχοντες τῆς ζωῆς , ungrammatically, for this would be λόγῳ ζωῆς ἐπέχοντες , as ὁ δὲ ἐπεῖχεν αὐτοῖς , Acts 3:5 ; cf. also ref. 1 Tim.
	 εἰς καύχ  .   ἐμοί ]  for (result of your thus walking,  as concerns myself )  a matter of boasting for me against (temporal: reserved for)  the day of Christ, that ( ὅτι οὐ μάτην τὴν ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν ἀνεδεξάμην σπουδήν , Thdrt.)  I did not run (the past tense is from the point of view of that day. On ἔδραμον , see reff.)  for nothing, nor labour for nothing (cf. ref. Job).