 12 .  ὥστε ]  wherefore i.e. as a consequence on this pattern set you by Christ. The  ὑπηκούσατε answers to γενόμενος ὑπήκοος Philippians 2:8 , and  σωτηρία to the exaltation of Christ. It is therefore better, with Meyer, to refer  ὥστε to that which has just preceded, than with De Wette, Wiesinger, al., to all the foregoing exhortations, ch. Philippians 1:27 ff.
	 ὑπηκούσατε ] i.e.  to God , as Christ above: not as ordinarily, ‘to  me ’ or ‘  my Gospel .’ This last De W. grounds on the presence and absence of the Apostle mentioned below: those clauses however do not belong to ὑπηκούσατε , but to κατεργάζεσθε . This is evident by μὴ ὡς and νῦν . In fact it would be hardly possible logically to connect them with ὑπηκούσατε . As it is, they connect admirably with κατεργάζεσθε , see below.
	 ὡς is by no means superfluous, but gives the sense  not as if (it were a matter to be done)  in my presence only, but now (as things are at present)  much more (with more earnestness)  in my absence (because spiritual help from me is withdrawn from you)  carry out (bring to an accomplishment)  your own (emphasis on ἑαυτῶν , perhaps as directing attention to the example of Christ which has preceded, as HE obeyed and won HIS exaltation, so do  you obey and carry out  your own salvation)  salvation (which is  begun with justification by faith, but must be carried out, brought to an issue, by sanctification of the Spirit a life of holy obedience and advance to Christian perfection. For this reason, the E. V., ‘  work out your own salvation,’ is bad, because ambiguous, giving the idea that the salvation is a thing to be gotten, brought in and brought about, by ourselves)  with fear and trembling (lest you should fail of its accomplishment at the last. The expression indicates a state of anxiety and self-distrust: see reff. δεῖ γὰρ φοβεῖσθαι κ . τρέμειν ἐν τῷ ἐργάζεσθαι τὴν ἰδίαν σωτηρίαν ἕκαστον , μήποτε ὑποσκελισθεὶς ἐκπέσῃ ταύτης . Œc. in Meyer. And the stress of the exhortation is on these words: considering the immense sacrifice which Christ made for you, and the lofty eminence to which God hath now raised Him, be ye more than ever earnest that you miss not your own share in such salvation. The thought before the Apostle’s mind is much the same as that in Hebrews 2:3 , πῶς ἡμεῖς ἐκφευξόμεθα τηλικαύτης ἀμελήσαντες σωτηρίας ;):