 9 11 .]  Exaltation of Jesus, consequent on this His humiliation : brought forward as an encouragement to follow His example. “Quod autem beati sint quicunque sponte humiliantur cum Christo, probat ejus exemplo: nam a despectissima sorte evectus fuit in summam altitudinem. Quicunque ergo se humiliat, similiter exaltabitur. Quis nunc submissionem recuset, qua in gloriam regni cœlestis conscenditur?” Calvin.  Wherefore (i.e. on account of this His self-humiliation and obedience: see Hebrews 2:9 , note: not as Calv., ‘  quo facto ,’ trying to evade the meritorious obedience of Christ thus, ‘quod dictio illativa hic magis consequentiam sonet quam causam, hinc patet, quod alioqui sequetur, hominem divinos honores posse mereri et ipsum Dei thronum acquirere, quod non modo absurdum sed dictu etiam horrendum est:’ strangely forgetting that herein Christ was not  a man , nor an example what we can do, but the eternal Son of God, lowering Himself to take the nature of men, and in it rendering voluntary and perfect obedience)  also (introduces the result, reff. and Luke 1:35 ; Act 10:29 )  God (on His part: reference to the τῷ θεῷ understood after ὑπήκοος above)  highly exalted Him (not only  ὕψωσεν , but  ὑπερύψωσεν ; His exaltation being a super-eminent one, cf. ὑπερνικᾷν , Romans 8:37 , also 2 Corinthians 12:7 ; 2 Thessalonians 1:3 . Not, ‘  hath highly exalted:’ the reference is to a historical fact, viz. that of His Ascension),  and gave to Him (the Father being greater than the incarnate Son, John 14:28 , and having by His exaltation of Jesus to His throne, freely bestowed on him the kingly office, which is the completion of His Mediatorship, Rom 14:9 )  the name which is above every name ( ὄνομα must be kept, against most Commentators, to its plain sense of NAME, and not rendered ‘  glory ,’ or understood of His office. The name is, the very name which He bore in His humiliation, but which now is the highest and most glorious of all names,  τὸ ὄνομα ἸΗΣΟΥ . Compare His own answer in glory, Acts 9:5 , ἐγώ εἰμι Ἰησοῦς , ὃν σὺ διώκεις . As to the construction in the rec., without the τό before ὄνομα , the  indefinite ὄνομα is afterwards  defined to be  that name, which we all know and reverence, by  τὸ ὑπὲρ κ . τ . λ . The τό before ὄνομα may have been inserted to assimilate the expression to the more usual one),