 30 .]  διὰ τὸ ἔργον , viz. of the Gospel, or of Christ (see the glosses in var. readd.); part of which it was to sustain the minister of the Gospel.
	 μέχρι θ  .   ἤγγ  . ] he incurred so serious and nearly fatal a sickness: not to be understood of danger incurred by the hostility of the authorities, as Chrys., al., also Thdrt.: καθειργόμενον γὰρ πάντως μαθών , καὶ ὑπὸ πλείστων φυλαττόμενον , εἰσελθὼν ἐθεάσατο , τοῦ κινδύνου καταφρονήσας .
	 παραβολευσάμενος ] There is, and must ever remain, some doubt whether to read παρα  βουλ - or παρα  βολ ευσάμενος . Both words are unknown to Greek writers. The first verb would signify ‘  male consulere vitæ,’ and is found not unfrequently in the fathers, especially Chrys., which makes it all the more likely to have been introduced here for the other. This latter would be formed from παράβολος , ‘  venturesome ,’ as περπερεύομαι from πέρπερος ( 1Co 13:4 ), ἀλογεύομαι from ἄλογος (Cic. ad Att. vi. 4): similarly ἀσωτεύομαι , φιλανθρωπεύομαι , πονηρεύομαι , &c. See Lobeck on Phryn. pp. 67, 591. Thus παραβολεύεσθαι would be used exactly as παραβάλλεσθαι in Polyb. ii. 26. 6, ἔφη δεῖν μὴ κινδυνεύειν ἔτι , μηδὲ παραβάλλεσθαι τοῖς ὅλοις , and iii. 94. 4, and παραβάλλεσθαι ταῖς ψυχαῖς in Diod. Sic. iii. 16. Phryn. (p. 238, ed. Lob.) says, παραβόλιον · ἀδόκιμον τοῦτο . τῷ μὲν οὖν ὀνόματι οὐ χρῶνται οἱ παλαιοί , τῷ δὲ ῥήματι . φασὶ γὰρ οὕτω , παραβάλλομαι τῇ ἐμαυτοῦ κεφαλῇἐχρῆν οὖν κἀπὶ τούτων λέγειν , παραβάλλομαι ἀργυρίῳ . Hence also nurses of the sick were called  parabolani . See various patristic interpretations, and illustrations, in Tischendorf and Wetstein.
	 ἵνα κ . τ . λ .]  that he might fill up ( 1Co 16:17 )  your deficiency (viz. on account of your absence)  in the ministration to me (the λειτουργία was the contribution of money, which had been sent by Epaphroditus. The only ὑστέρημα in this kind service was, their inability through absence, to minister it to the Apostle themselves: and this Epaphroditus filled up, and in so doing risked his life in the way above hinted at, i.e. probably by too constant and watchful attendance on the Apostle. So that there is no blame conveyed by  τὸ ὑμ  .   ὑστέρημα , as Chr., ὅπερ ἐχρῆν πάντας ποιῆσαι , τοῦτο ἔπραξεν αὐτός , but the whole is a delicate way of enhancing Epaphroditus’s services ‘that which you would have done if you could, he did for you therefore receive him with all joy’).