14. Now—Greek, "But."
	Though we left Troas disappointed in not meeting Titus there, and in
	having to leave so soon so wide a door, "thanks be unto God,"
	we were triumphantly blessed in both the good news of you from Titus,
	and in the victories of the Gospel everywhere in our progress. The
	cause of triumph cannot be restricted (as ALFORD
	explains) to the former; for "always," and "in every
	place," show that the latter also is intended. 
	causeth us to triumph—The
	Greek, is rather, as in  :-, "triumphs over us": "leadeth us in triumph."
	Paul regarded himself as a signal trophy of God's victorious power in
	Christ. His Almighty Conqueror was leading him about, through all the
	cities of the Greek and Roman world, as an illustrious example of His
	power at once to subdue and to save. The foe of Christ was now the
	servant of Christ. As to be led in triumph by man is the most
	miserable, so to be led in triumph by God is the most glorious, lot
	that can befall any [TRENCH].
	Our only true triumphs are God's triumphs over us. His defeats of us
	are our only true victories [ALFORD].
	The image is taken from the triumphal procession of a victorious
	general. The additional idea is perhaps included, which
	distinguishes God's triumph from that of a human general, that the
	captive is brought into willing obedience ( :-) to Christ, and so joins in the triumph: God "leads
	him in triumph" as one not merely triumphed over, but
	also as one triumphing over God's foes with God (which last
	will apply to the apostle's triumphant missionary progress under the
	leading of God). So BENGEL:
	"Who shows us in triumph, not [merely] as conquered, but
	as the ministers of His victory. Not only the victory, but the open
	'showing' of the victory is marked: for there follows, Who maketh
	manifest." 
	savour—retaining the
	image of a triumph. As the approach of the triumphal procession was
	made known by the odor of incense scattered far and wide by
	the incense-bearers in the train, so God "makes manifest by us"
	(His now at once triumphed over and triumphing captives, compare  :-, "Catch," literally, "Take captive so as to
	preserve alive") the sweet savor of the knowledge of Christ, the
	triumphant Conqueror (Colossians 2:15),
	everywhere. As the triumph strikes the eyes, so the savor the
	nostrils; thus every sense feels the power of Christ's Gospel. This
	manifestation (a word often recurring in his Epistles to the
	Corinthians, compare 1 Corinthians 4:5)
	refutes the Corinthian suspicions of his dishonestly, by
	reserve, hiding anything from them (2 Corinthians 2:17;
	2 Corinthians 4:2).