 17 .] The same great truth shewn on its  darker side : not only as regards God’s  mercy , but His  wrath also.
	 For (confirmation of the  universal truth of the last inference)  the Scripture (identified with God, its Author: the case, as Thol. remarks, is different when merely something  contained in Scripture is introduced by ἡ γραφὴ λέγει : there ἡ γρ . is merely personified. The justice of Thol.’s remark will be apparent, if we reflect that this expression could not be used of the  mere ordinary words of any man in the historical Scriptures, Ahab, or Hezekiah, but only where  the text itself speaks, or where  God spoke , or, as here,  some man under inspiration of God)  saith to Pharaoh, For this very purpose ( ὅτι recitantis; the LXX have καὶ ἕνεκεν τούτου )  did I raise thee up (LXX διετηρήθης , ‘  thou wert preserved to this day :’ Heb. הֶֽעֱמַדְתִּיךָ from עָמַד ,  stetit , in Hiph.  stare fecit ; hence taken to signify (1) ‘  constituit, muneri præfecit ,’ as 1 Kings 12:32 ; Isaiah 21:6 (LXX σεαυτῷ στῆσον σκόπον ); Esther 4:5 , (2) ‘  confirmavit ,’ as 1Ki 15:4 al., and (3) ‘  prodire fecit, excitavit ,’ Daniel 11:11 ; Nehemiah 6:7 ; the meaning ‘  incolumem prœstitit ,’ given in the Lexicons, seems to be grounded on the following of the LXX in this passage, who apparently understood it of Pharaoh being kept safe through the plagues. This has been done by modern interpreters [perhaps] to avoid the strong assertion which the Apostle here gives, purposely deviating from the LXX, that Pharaoh was ‘  raised up ,’ called into action in his office, to be an example of God’s dealing with impenitent sinners. The word chosen by the Apostle, ἐξεγείρω , in its transitive sense, is often used by the LXX for ‘to rouse into action:’ see besides reff. Psalms 56:8 ; Psalms 79:2 ; Son 4:16 al. So that the meaning (3) given above for the Heb. verb ‘prodire fecit, excitavit,’ was evidently that intended by ἐξήγειρα ),  that I may shew in thee (‘in thee as an example,’ ‘in thy case,’ ‘by thee’)  my power ( τ . ἰσχύν μου LXX-B: δύν . (which is read in A) is perhaps chosen by the Apostle as more  general , ἰσχύς applying rather to those deeds of miraculous power of which Egypt was then witness),  and that my Name may be proclaimed in all the earth (compare as a comment, the words of the song of triumph, Exo 15:14-16 ).