 31 .]  but Israel, pursuing after the law of righteousness (what is the νόμος δικαιοσύνης ? Certainly not = δικαιοσύνη νόμου , as Chrys., Theodoret, Œcum., Calv., Beza, Bengel, by the so-called, but as Thol. observes, unlogical figure of Hypallage: it may mean either (1) as Meyer, Fritz., Thol., an  ideal law of righteousness, a justifying law , or (2) as Chrys., al., see above,  the Iaw of Moses , thus described: or (3) which I believe to be the true account of the words,  νόμος δικαιος . is put regarding the Jews, rather than merely δικαιος ., because in their case there was a prescribed norm of apparent righteousness, viz. the law, in which rule and way they, as  matter of fact , followed after it. The above, as I believe, mistaken interpretations arise from supposing νόμον δικαιος . to be = δικαιος ., which it is not. The Jews followed after, aimed at the fulfilment of ‘  the law of righteousness ,’ thinking by the observance of that law to acquire righteousness. See ch. Romans 10:3 ; Romans 10:5 , and note; and compare John’s coming ἐν ὁδῷ δικαιοσύνης , Mat 21:32 ),  arrived not at [notice the change in the verb]  the law (fell far short even of that law, which was given them. It is surprising, with ch. Rom 10:3-5 before them, how De Wette and Tholuck can pronounce the reading νόμον without δικαιοσύνης to be without sense. The Jews followed after, thinking to perform it entirely, their νόμος δικαιοσύνης : which δικαιος . ἐκ τοῦ νόμου the Apostle defines, ch. Romans 10:5 , to be ὁ ποιήσας αὐτὰ ἄνθρωπος ζήσεται ἐν αὐτοῖς , but they did not attain to not in this case κατέλαβεν , but ἔφθασεν εἰς the law they therefore never attained  righteousness . It is surely far more easy to imagine how a transcriber should have inserted δικαιοσύνης , than how he should have omitted it. It probably was a marginal gloss to explain the second νόμον , and thence found its way into the text (I may notice, that ch. Rom 10:3 is not a case in point, the νόμον here having an independent and exceptional meaning of its own, which introduces an element not belonging to ἰδίαν there)).  Wherefore? because (  pursuing it )  not by faith, but as (used subjectively, as ‘if about to obtain their object by:’ see Winer, edn. 6, § 65. 9, and compare 2Pe 1:3 )  by [the] works [of the law (the evidence for and against νόμου is about equally balanced. On the one side we have the Apostle’s usage, see ch. Rom 3:28 reff., and the possibility of a transcriber omitting νόμου , either as having twice occurred already, or for more complete antithesis, and on the other we have the temptation to correct ἔργων to ἔργων νόμου to suit that very usage. On the whole I incline to omit νόμου , but do not regard the evidence as sufficiently clear to justify its exclusion from the text)  ], they stumbled at the stone of stumbling (the similitude of a race is still kept up. The insertion of γάρ has arisen from a period being placed at νόμου . It confuses the sense, making it appear as if the stumbling was the cause of, or at all events coincident with, their pursuing οὐκ ἐκ π . κ . τ . λ ., whereas it was this mistaken method of pursuing which caused them to stumble against the stone of stumbling. Thus we have instances in the Greek chariot races, of competitors, by an error in judgment in driving, striking against the στήλη round which the chariots were to turn, see Soph. Elect. 730 f.
	There is a close analogy between our text and the exhortation in Hebrews 12:1 f. There, after the triumphs of faith have been related, we are exhorted to run with patience the race set before us, looking to Jesus, the Author and Finisher of  our faith : where notice, that the sacred Writer seems to have had in his mind the same comparison of Him to the pillar or goal, to which the eyes of the runners would be exclusively directed).