 25, 26 .] It is difficult to ascertain in what sense the Apostle cites these two passages from Hosea as applicable to the Gentiles being called to be the people of God. That he  does so , is manifest from the words themselves, and from the transition to the Jews in Romans 9:27 . In the prophet they are spoken of  Israel ; see ch. Romans 1:6-11 , and ch. 2 throughout: who after being rejected and put away, was to be again received into favour by God. Two ways are open, by which their citation by the Apostle may be understood. Either (1) he brings them forward to shew that it is consonant with what we know of God’s dealings, to  receive as His people , those who  were formerly  not His people that this may now take place with regard to the Gentiles, as it was announced to happen with regard to Israel, and even more, that Israel in this as in so many other things was the prophetic mirror in which God foreshowed on a small scale His future dealings with mankind, or (2) he adduces them from mere applicability to the subject in hand, implying, ‘It has been with us Gentiles, as with Israel in the prophet Hosea.’ I own I much prefer the former of these, as more consonant with the dignity of the argument, and as apparently justified by the καί , as He saith  also in Hosea, implying perhaps that the matter in hand was not that directly prophesied in the citation, but one analogous to it. Chrys. takes the same view: εἰ γὰρ ἐπὶ τῶν ἀγνωμονησάντων μετὰ πολλὰς εὐεργεσίας , καὶ ἀλλοτριωθέντων , καὶ τὸ λαὸς εἶναι ἀπολωλεκότων , τοσαύτη γέγονεν ἡ μεταβολή , τί ἐκώλυε καὶ τοὺς οὐ μετὰ τὴν οἰκείωσιν ἀλλοτριωθέντας , ἀλλ ʼ ἐξ ἀρχῆς ἀλλοτρίους ὄντας , κληθῆναι , κ . ὑπακούσαντας τῶν αὐτῶν ἀξιωθῆναι ; Hom. xvi. p. 618.
	The fem. τήν is used because the Jewish people was typified by the  daughter of the prophet, Hosea 1:6 , who was called Lo-ruhamah, ‘not having obtained mercy.’ The sense, not the words of the LXX, is quoted.
	By ἐν τῷ τόπῳ … ἐκεῖ must not I think be understood, in any particular place, as Judæa, nor among any peculiar people, as the Christian Church: but as a general assertion, that in every place where they were called ‘not His people,’ there they shall be called ‘His people.’