 4 .] Not only on their relationship to himself does he ground this sorrow and this self-devotion: but on the recollection of their ancient privileges and glories.
	 Who are Israelites (a name of honour, see John 1:48 ; 2 Corinthians 11:22 ; Php 3:5 );  whose (is) the adoption (see Exodus 4:22 ; Deuteronomy 14:1 ; Deuteronomy 32:6 ; Isa 1:2 al.),  and the glory (perhaps their general preference and exaltation, consequent on the υἱοθεσία , but far more probably, as all the other substantives refer to separate matters of fact, the Shechinah or visible manifestation of the divine Presence on the mercy-seat between the cherubims: see reff.),  and the covenants (not,  the two tablet of the law , as Beza, Grot., al., which formed but one covenant, and are included in νομοθεσία ; nor,  the Old and New Testament Covenants , as Aug [67] , Jer [68] , Galov., Wolf, see Galatians 4:24 ff.: but  the several renewals of the covenant with Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and finally with the whole people at Sinai: see Genesis 15:9-21 ; Genesis 17:4 ; Genesis 17:7 ; Genesis 17:10 ; Genesis 26:24 ; Genesis 28:13 ; Exo 24:7-8 al.),  and the law-giving (‘si alii Solonibus et Lycurgis gloriantur, quanto justior est gloriandi materia de Domino!’ Calv. νομοθ . is both the act of giving the Law, and the Law thus given),  and the service (ordinances of worship: see ref. Heb.),  and the promises (probably only those to the patriarchs, of a Redeemer to come, are here thought of, as the next two clauses place the patriarchs and Christ together without any mention of the prophets. So Abraham is described, Hebrews 7:6 , as τὸν ἔχοντα τὰς ἐπαγγελίας ),  whose are the fathers (probably to be limited to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: so De W., but Stephen gives οἱ πατ . a much wider meaning in Acts 7:11-12 ; Acts 7:19 ; Acts 7:39 ; Acts 7:44 , and so apparently Paul himself, Acts 13:17 . In all those places, however, except Acts 7:19 , ἡμῶν follows, whereas here the word is absolute: so that the above limitation may be true),  and of whom is Christ, as far as regards the flesh ( τό , acc., as also in ch. Romans 12:18 , implies that He was not  entirely sprung from them, but had another nature: q. d. ‘  on his human side ,’ ‘  duntaxat quod attinet ad corpus humanum ,’ as Erasmus),  who is God Over all (prob. neuter; for τὰ πάντα , not οἱ πάντες , is the equivalent nominative in such sentences: see ch. Rom 11:36 )  blessed for ever. Amen .
	 [67]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 [68]  Jerome , fl. 378 420
	The punctuation and application of this doxology have been much disputed. By the early Church it was generally rendered as above, and applied to Christ, so Iren [69] , Tert [70] , Orig [71] h. 1., Athan., Epiph [72] , Chrys., Theodoret, Theophyl., Œc [73] Wetstein has, it is true, collected passages from the fathers to shew that they applied the words ὁ ἐπὶ πάντων θεός to  the FATHER  alone, and protested against their application to the SON; but these passages themselves protest only against the erroneous Noetian or Sabellian view of the  identity of the Father and the Son, whereas in Ephesians 4:5-6 , εἷς κύριος , and εἷς  θεὸς κ . πατὴρ πάντων ,  ὁ ἐπὶ πάντων , are plainly distinguished. That our Lord is not, in the strict exclusive sense, ὁ ἐπὶ πάντων θεός , every Christian will admit, that title being reserved for the Father: but that He  is ἐπὶ πάντων θεός , none of the passages goes to deny. Had our text stood ἐξ ὧν ὁ χρ . τὸ κατὰ σάρκα , ὁ ἐπὶ πάντων θεὸς ὁ εὐλογητὸς εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας , it would have appeared to countenance the above error, which as it now stands it cannot do.
	 [69] Irenæus, Bp. of Lyons, 178 (Iren-int as represented by his interpreter; Iren-gr, when his own words are preserved)
	 [70]  Tertullian , 200
	 [71] Origen, b. 185, d. 254
	 [72] Epiphanius, Bp. of Salamis in Cyprus, 368 403
	 [73] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	The first trace of a different interpretation, if it be one, is found in an assertion of the emperor Julia [74] (Cyril, p. 321. Wetst.) τὸν γοῦν Ἰησοῦν οὔτε Παῦλος ἐτόλμησεν εἰπεῖν θεόν , οὔτε Ματθαῖος οὔτε Μάρκος , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ χρηστὸς Ἰωάννης . The next is in the punctuation of two cursive mss. of the twelfth century (5 and 47), which place a period after σάρκα , thus insulating ὁ ὢν ἐπὶ πάντων .… ἀμήν , and regarding it as a doxology to God over all, blessed for ever. This is followed by Erasm., Wetst., Semler, Reiche, Köllner, Meyer, Fritzsche, Krehl, al. The objections to this rendering are, (1) ingenuously suggested by Socinus himself (Thol.), and never yet obviated, that without one exception in Hebrew or Greek, wherever an ascription of blessing is found, the predicate εὐλογητός ( בָּרוּךְ )  precedes the name of God. (In the one place, Ps. 67:19 LXX, κύρ . ὁ θ . εὐλογητός , εὐλογητὸς κυρ . ἡμέραν καθ ʼ ἡμέραν , which seems to be an exception, the first εὐλ . has no corresponding word in the Heb. and perhaps may be interpolated. So Stuart, and even Eichhorn, Einleit. ins A. T. p. 320. In Yates’s vindication of Unitarianism, p. 180, this is the only instance cited. Such cases as 3 Kings Romans 10:9 ; 2 Chronicles 9:8 ; Job 1:21 ; Psalms 112:2 , are no exceptions, as in all of them the verb εἴη or γένοιτο is expressed, requiring the substantive to follow it closely.) And this collocation of words depends, not upon the mere aim at perspicuity of arrangement (Yates, p. 180), but upon the circumstance that the stress is, in a peculiar manner, in such ascriptions of praise, on the predicate, which is used in a pregnant sense, the copula being omitted. (2) That the ὤν , on this rendering, would be superfluous altogether (see below). (3) That the doxology would be unmeaning and frigid in the extreme. It is not the habit of the Apostle to break out into irrelevant ascriptions of praise; and certainly there is here nothing in the immediate context requiring one. If it be said that the survey of all these privileges bestowed on his people prompts the doxology, surely such a view is most unnatural: for the sad subject of the Apostle’s sympathy, to which he immediately recurs again, is the apparent  inanity of all these privileges in the exclusion from life of those who were dignified with them. If it be said that the  incarnation of Christ is the exciting cause, the τὸ κατὰ σάρκα comes in most strangely, depreciating, as it would on that supposition, the greatness of the event, which then becomes a source of so lofty a thanksgiving. (4) That the expression εὐλογητὸς εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας is twice besides used by Paul, and each time unquestionably not in an ascription of praise, but in  an assertion regarding the subject of the sentence . The places are, ch. Romans 1:25 , ἐλάτρευσαν τῇ κτίσει παρὰ τὸν κτίσαντα , ὅς ἐστιν εὐλογητὸς εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας . ἀμήν , and 2 Corinthians 11:31 , ὁ θεὸς κ . πατὴρ τ . κυρ . Ἰησοῦ οἶδεν , ὁ ὢν εὐλογητὸς εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας , ὅτι οὐ ψεύδομαι : whereas he twice uses the phrase εὐλογητὸς ὁ θεός as an ascription of praise, without joining εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας . (5) That in the latter of the above-cited passages ( 2Co 11:31 ), not only the same phrase as here, but the same construction, ὁ ὤν , occurs, and that there the whole refers to the subject of the sentence.
	 [74] Julian, Emperor, 331 363
	I do not reckon among the objections the want of any contrast to τὸ κατὰ σάρκα , because that might have well been left to the readers to supply. Another mode of punctuation has been suggested (Locke, Clarke, al.), and indeed is found in one ms. of the same date as above (71): to set a period after πάντων and refer ὁ ὢν ἐπὶ πάντων to Christ, understanding by πάντων all the preceding glorious things, or the πατέρες only, or even ‘all things.’ This lies open to all the above objections except (5), and to this in addition, that as Bp. Middleton observes, we must in that case read  ὁ θεός .
	Variety of reading there is none worth notice: the very fathers [Ephr [75] Cypr-ed. Hil-ed. Le [76] ] generally cited as omitting θεός ,  having it in the best manuscripts and editions.
	 [75] Ephrem Syrus, b. 299, d. 378
	 [76] Leo,  Bp. of Rome , 440 461
	Crell (not Schlichting, see Thol. p. 484, note, edn. 1842) proposed (and is followed by Whiston, Whitby, and Taylor) to transpose ὁ ὤν into ὧν ὁ ; but besides the objection to the sense thus arising, εὐλογητός would probably in that case (not necessarily, as Bp. Middleton in loc.) have the art.: not to mention that no conjecture arising from doctrinal difficulty is ever to be admitted in the face of the consensus of MSS. and versions.
	The rendering given above is then not only that most agreeable to the usage of the Apostle,  but the only one admissible by the rules of grammar and arrangement . It also admirably suits the context: for, having enumerated the historic advantages of the Jewish people, he concludes by stating one which ranks far higher than all, that from them sprung, according to the flesh, He who is God over all, blessed for ever.
	ἀμήν implies no optative ascription of praise, but is the accustomed ending of such solemn declarations of the divine Majesty; compare ch. Romans 1:25 .