 22 .]  But what if (by the elliptical εἰ δέ the answer to the question of the objector, Romans 9:19 , seems to be introduced; ἐὰν οὖν occurs in a similar connexion John 6:62 ; and ἀλλ ʼ εἰ , Soph. Œd. Col. 590, ἀλλ ʼ εἰ θέλοντάς γ ʼ οὐδὲ σοὶ φυγεῖν καλόν ; See Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. 212. 6) (1)  God, purposing to shew forth His wrath, and to make known His power (that which He could do),  endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted [prepared, made complete and ready]  for destruction; and (what if this took place) (2)  that He might make known the riches of His glory on (not  to , as De Wette, who joins it with γνωρίσῃ , but ‘  toward ,’  on , ‘with regard to,’ dependent on πλοῦτον , as πλουτῶν εἰς , ch. Rom 10:12 )  the vessels of mercy, which He before prepared for glory ? I have given the whole, that my view of the construction might be evident: viz. that (1) and (2) are parallel clauses, both dependent on εἰ δέ ; θέλων giving the purpose of the 1st, and ἵνα γν . that of the 2nd. They might be cast into one form by writing the 1st ὁ θ ., ἵνα ἐνδείξηται .… κ . γνωρίσῃ , or the 2nd, καὶ θέλων γνωρίσαι . Only I do not, as Calv., Beza, Grot., Bengel, De Wette, Meyer, and Winer, understand the same ἤνεγκεν .… ἀπώλ ., as belonging to both, but only to the 1st, and supply before the 2nd, ‘What if this took place,’ viz. this ὃν θέλει , ἐλεεῖ . Other constructions have been, to make ἵνα depend on κατηρτισμένα ‘  prepared to destruction for this very purpose, that &c.’ So Fritz. and Rückert, Exodus 2:0 ; but this seems to overlook καί , or to regard it as = καὶ τοῦτο : to take Rom 9:23 as a new sentence, supplying ἐκάλεσεν ἡμᾶς , as Tholuck.
	Stuart supplies θέλων before ἵνα γν ., and ἠλέησεν before οὓς ἐκάλεσεν ἡμᾶς . This in fact amounts to nearly the same as my own view, but appears objectionable, inasmuch as it joins Rom 9:24 to Romans 9:23 ; see below.
	The argument is, ‘What if God, in the case of the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, has, in willing to manifest His power and wrath, also exhibited towards them long-suffering (to lead them to repentance, ch. Romans 2:4 , a mystery which we cannot fathom), and in having mercy on the vessels of mercy prepared for glory, has also made manifest the riches of His glory?’ Then in both these dispensations will appear, not the arbitrary power, but the rich goodness of God.
	The theological difficulties in κατηρτισμένα and προητοίμασεν (in both cases  God is the agent; not they themselves, as Chrys., Theophyl., Olsh. Bengel, however, rightly remarks, “non dicit quæ προκατήρτισε , cum tamen ver. seq. dicat ‘quæ præparavit.’ Cf. Mat 25:34 cum v. 41, et Act 13:46 cum v. 48”) are but such as have occurred repeatedly before, and, as Stuart has well observed, are inherent, not in the Apostle’s argument, nor even in revelation, but in  any consistent belief of an omnipotent and omniscient God . See remarks on Romans 9:18 .
	σκεύη ὀργῆς and σκεύη ἐλέους are  vessels prepared to subserve , as it were to  hold , His ὀργή and ἔλεος : hardly, as Calvin,  instruments to shew forth : that is  done , over and above their being σκεύη , but is not necessary to it.
	The σκ . ὀργ . and σκ . ἐλ . are not to be, with a view to evade the general application, confined to the instances of Pharaoh and the Jews: these instances give occasion to the argument, but the argument itself is general, extending to all the dealings of God.