 30 33 .]  The Apostle takes up again the fact of Israel’s failure, and shews how their own pursuit of righteousness never attained to righteousness, being hindered by their self-righteousness and rejection of Christ . These verses do not contain, as Chrys., Œc [91] , Theophyl., the τοῦ χωρίου παντὸς λύσις this λύσις is simply in the creative right of God, as declared Romans 9:18 ; but they are a comment on Romans 9:16 , that it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that  runneth : the same similitude of running being here resumed, and it being shewn that, so far from man’s running having decided the matter, the Jews  who pressed forward to the goal attained not, whereas the Gentiles,  who never ran , have attained. If this is lost sight of, the connexion of the whole is much impaired, and from doctrinal prejudice, a wholly wrong turn given to the Apostle’s line of reasoning, who resolves the awful fact of Israel’s exclusion not into any causes arising from man, but into the supreme will of God, which will is here again distinctly asserted in the citation from Isaiah (see below).
	 [91] Œcumenius of Tricca in Thrace, Cent y . XI.?
	 What then shall we say ? This question, when followed  by a question , implies of course a  rejection of the thought thus suggested but when, as here, by an  assertion , introduces a further unfolding of the argument from what has preceded. I cannot agree with Flatt, Olsh., al., that ὅτι κ . τ . λ . is to be regarded as a question: for, as Rückert has observed, (1) Paul could not put interrogatively, as a supposition in answer to τί οὖν ἐροῦμεν , a sentiment not intimated in nor following from the foregoing; (2) there would be no answer to the question thus asked, but the διὰ τί , Romans 9:32 , would ask another question, proceeding on the assumption of that which had been before by implication negatived; and (3) the answer, ὅτι κ . τ . λ . Romans 9:32 , would touch only the case of the Jews, and not that of the Gentiles, also involved, on this supposition, in the question.  That the Gentiles (not, as Meyer and Fritz., ‘some Gentiles’),  which pursue not after (see especially reff. Phil.)  righteousness (not  justification , which is merely ‘the being accounted righteous,’ ‘the way in which righteous ness is ascribed:’ not this, but  righteousness itself , is the aim and end of the race)  attained to (the whole transaction being regarded as a historical fact)  righteousness, even ( δέ brings in something new, different from the foregoing, but not strongly opposed to it, see Winer, edn. 6. § 53. 7.  b : the opposition here, though fine and delicate, is remarkable: righteousness not however that arising from their own works, but the righteousness, &c.)  the righteousness which is of faith: