 10, 11 .]  And not only ( ε  ο ) (i.e. not only have we an example of the election of a son of Abraham by one woman, and the rejection of a son by another, but also of election and rejection of the  children of the same woman , Rebecca, and that  before they were born . οὐ μόνον δέ introduces an  à fortiori consideration.
	In the construction supply τοῦτο only),  but when Rebecca also had conceived (see ref. Num. and ch. Romans 13:13 , where the meaning is not exactly the same though cognate)  by one man (in the former case, the children were by  two wives ; the difference between that case and this being, that there, was diversity of parents, here, identity. The points of contrast being then this diversity and identity, the  identity of the father also is brought into view. This is well put by Chrys.: ἡ γὰρ Ῥεβέκκα καὶ μόνη τῷ Ἰσαὰκ γέγονε γυνή , καὶ δύο τεκοῦσα παῖδας , ἐκ τοῦ Ἰσαὰκ ἔτεκεν ἀμφοτέρους · ἀλλ ʼ ὅμως οἱ τεχθέντες τοῦ αὐτοῦ πατρὸς ὄντες , τῆς αὐτῆς μητρός , τὰς αὐτὰς λύσαντες ὠδῖνας , καὶ ὁμοπάτριοι ὄντες καὶ ὁμομήτριοι , καὶ πρὸς τούτοις καὶ δίδυμοι , οὐ τῶν αὐτῶν ἀπήλαυσαν . Hom. xvi. p. 610),  our father Isaac ( τ . πατ . ἡμ ., probably said without any special reference, the Apostle speaking as a Jew. If with any design it might be, as Thol. remarks, to shew that even among the  Patriarchs ’ children such distinction took place.
	Christians being τέκνα ἐπαγγελίας , the expression might apply to them: but, as the same Commentator observes, the argument here is to shew that  not all the children of promise belonged to the ἐκλογή . See ch. Romans 4:1-12 . As to the construction here, it is best to regard ἀλλὰ καὶ … ἔχουσα … ἡμῶν as a sentence begun but intercepted by the remark following, and resumed in another form at ἐῤῥ . αὐτῇ ),  for (not answering to ‘furnishes us an example’ supplied after ἔχουσα , but elliptically put, answering to the apprehension in the Apostle’s mind of the force of the example which he is about to adduce. For this use of γάρ see John 4:44 , note; Herod. i. 8, Γύγη , οὐ γὰρ .…; 30, ξεῖνε Ἀθ . παρ ʼ ἡμέας γὰρ .… Thucyd. i. 72, τῶν δὲ Ἀθ . ἔτυχε γὰρ …; and other examples in Hartung, Partikellehre, i. 467)  without their having been yet born (the subject, the children, is to be supplied partly from the fact of her pregnancy just stated, partly from the history, well known to the readers.
	μή instead of οὐ is frequently used by later Greek writers in participial clauses: Winer, edn. 6, § 55. 5; so Acts 9:9 , ἦν … μὴ βλέπων κ . οὐκ ἔφαγεν …, and Luke 13:11 , μὴ δυναμένη ἀνακύψαι . See Schäfer, Demosth. iii. 395, and Hartung, ii. 130 132)  or having done anything good or ill ( φαῦλ . an unusual word with Paul = properly ἁπλοῦν , ῥᾴδιον , εὐτελές , as Timæus in Lex. to Plato, with whom it is a very common word in this sense. Ruhnken, on the word in Timæus, gives from the Lex. Rhetor. MS., τὸ φ . σημαίνει δέκα · ἐπί τε προσώπου καὶ πράγματος τὸ κακόν . τὸ μικρόν , κ . τὸ εὐκαταφρόνητον , κ . τὸ ἀσθενές . κ . τὸ ἄδοξον . κ . τὸ ἀνόητον , κ . τ . λ . This will shew the connexion of the strict and the wider meaning), [  to the end] that the purpose of God according to (purposed in pursuance of, or in accordance with, or (Thol.) with reference to His)  election (Thol. prefers taking κατ ʼ ἐκλ . adjectively, as Bengel has rendered it, ‘  propositum electivum ,’ and as in Polyb. vi. 34. 8, εἷς ἑκάστης ἀνὴρ λαμβάνεται κατ ʼ ἐκλογήν , ‘  electively ’)  may (not  might ; the  purpose is treated as  one in all time, which would be nullified if once thwarted)  abide (stand firm; the opposite of ἐκπίπτειν , see reff. 1 Pet., Isa.),  not [  depending on ]  works (ch. Romans 3:20 ; Rom 4:2 )  but on Him that calleth , (this clause does not seem to depend on any one word of the foregoing or following, as on ἐῤῥέθη , Calv., Luth.; or μένῃ , Rückert, Meyer; or κατ ʼ ἐκλογήν , Fritz.; but to be a general characteristic of the whole transaction; see a similar ἐκ in ch. Romans 1:17 . Thol., De W.
	Thus viewed, or indeed however taken, it is decisive against the Pelagianism of the Romanists, who by making our faith as foreseen by God the cause of our election, affirm it to be ἐξ ἔργων . See the matter discussed in Thol.),  it was said to her ( ὅτι is recitantis; the LXX have καί ), “  The elder shall serve the younger ” (this prophecy is distinctly connected in Genesis 25:0 with the prophetic description of the children as two  nations , λαὸς λαοῦ ὑπερέξει , καὶ ὁ μείζων κ . τ . λ . But the nations must be considered as spoken of in their progenitors, and the elder nation = that sprung from the elder brother. History records several subjugations of Edom by the kings of Judah; first by David ( 2Sa 8:14 ); under Joram they rebelled ( 2Ki 8:20 ), but were defeated by Amaziah ( 2Ki 14:7 ), and Elath taken from them by Uzziah ( 2Ki 14:22 ); under Ahaz they were again free, and troubled Judah (2 Chronicles 28:16-17 , compare 2Ki 16:6-7 ), and continued free, as prophesied in Genesis 27:40 , till the time of John Hyrcanus, who (Jos. Antt. xiii. 9. 1) reduced them finally, so that thenceforward they were incorporated among the Jews):  as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated (there is no necessity here to soften the ‘  hated ’ into ‘  loved less :’ the words in Malachi proceed on the fullest meaning of ἐμίσησα , see Rom 9:4 there, “The people against whom the LORD hath indignation for ever”).