 3 .]  For I could wish (the imperf. is not  historical , alluding to his days of Pharisaism, as Pelag. and others, but  quasi-optative , as in reff. ‘  I was wishing,’ had it been possible , ηὐχόμην εἰ ἐνεχώρει , εἰ ἐνεδέχετο , Phot [66] The sense of the imperf. in such expressions is the proper and strict one (and no new discovery, but common enough in every schoolboy’s reading): the act is unfinished, an obstacle intervening. So in Latin, ‘faciebam, ni …,’ the completed sentence being, ‘faciebam, et perfecissem, ni …’)  that I myself (on αὐτὸς ἐγώ see ch. Romans 7:25 ; it gives emphasis, as ἐγὼ Παῦλος , [ 2Co 10:1 ] Galatians 5:2 ; ‘I, the very person who write this and whom ye know’)  were a curse (a thing accursed,  ἀνάθεμα in the LXX = חֵרֶם , an irrevocable devotion to God, or, a thing or person so devoted. All  persons and  animals thus devoted were put to death; none could be redeemed, Leviticus 27:28-29 . The subsequent scriptural usage of the word arose from this. It never denotes simply an exclusion or excommunication, but always devotion to perdition, a curse. Attempts have been made to explain away the meaning here, by understanding  excommunication , as Grot., Hammond, Le Clerc, &c. or even  natural death only, as Jerome, al.: but excommunication included cursing and delivering over to Satan: and the mere wish for natural death would, as Chrys. eloquently remarks, be altogether beneath the dignity of the passage. Perhaps the strangest interpretation is that of Dr. Burton: “St. Paul had been set apart and consecrated by Christ to His service; and he had prayed that this devotion of himself might be for the good of his countrymen:” it is however no unfair sample of a multitude of others, all more or less shrinking from the full meaning of the fervid words of the Apostle)  from Christ (i.e. cut off and separated from Him for ever in eternal perdition. No other meaning will satisfy the plain sense of the words. ἀπό in the sense of ὑπό , making Christ the  agent of the curse, would be hardly admissible: still less the joining, as Carpzov and Elsner, ἀπό with ηὐχόμην . On this wish, compare Exo 32:32 )  in behalf of (in the place of; or, if thus I could benefit, deliver from perdition)  my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh .
	 [66] Photius, Bp. of Constantinople, 858 891
	The wish is evidently not to be pressed as entailing on the Apostle the charge of inconsistency in loving his nation more than his Saviour. It is the expression of an affectionate and self-denying heart, willing to surrender all things, even, if it might be so, eternal glory itself, if thereby he could obtain for his beloved people those blessings of the Gospel which he now enjoyed, but from which they were excluded. Nor does he describe the wish as ever actually formed; only as a conceivable limit to which, if admissible, his self-devotion for them would reach. Others express their love by professing themselves ready to give their life for their friends; he declares the intensity of his affection by reckoning even his  spiritual life not too great a price, if it might purchase their salvation.