13. unclean spirits like frogs—the
	antitype to the plague of frogs sent on Egypt. The presence of the
	"unclean spirit" in the land (Palestine) is foretold,  :-, in connection with idolatrous prophets. Beginning
	with infidelity as to Jesus Christ's coming in the flesh, men shall
	end in the grossest idolatry of the beast, the incarnation of all
	that is self-deifying and God-opposed in the world powers of all
	ages; having rejected Him that came in the Father's name, they shall
	worship one that comes in his own, though really the devil's
	representative; as frogs croak by night in marshes and quagmires, so
	these unclean spirits in the darkness of error teach lies amidst the
	mire of filthy lusts. They talk of liberty, but it is not
	Gospel liberty, but license for lust. There being three, as
	also seven, in the description of the last and worst state of
	the Jewish nation, implies a parody of the two divine numbers, three
	of the Trinity, and seven of the Holy Spirit ( :-). Some observe that three frogs were the original arms
	of France, a country which has been the center of infidelity,
	socialism, and false spiritualism. A and B read, "as it were
	frogs," instead of "like frogs," which is not
	supported by manuscripts. The unclean spirit out of the mouth of the
	dragon symbolizes the proud infidelity which opposes God and
	Christ. That out of the beast's mouth is the spirit of the
	world, which in the politics of men, whether lawless democracy or
	despotism, sets man above God. That out of the mouth of the false
	prophet is lying spiritualism and religious delusion, which shall
	take the place of the harlot when she shall have been destroyed. 
	the dragon—Satan, who
	gives his power and throne ( :-) to the beast.
false prophet—distinct
	from the harlot, the apostate Church (of which Rome is the chief,
	though not sole, representative), Revelation 17:1-3;
	Revelation 17:16; and identical with the
	second beast, Revelation 17:16- :, as appears by comparing Revelation 19:20;
	Revelation 13:13; ultimately consigned
	to the lake of fire with the first beast; as is also the dragon a
	little later (Revelation 20:10). The
	dragon, the beast, and the false prophet, "the mystery of
	iniquity," form a blasphemous Antitrinity, the counterfeit of
	"the mystery of godliness" God manifests in Christ,
	witnessed to by the Spirit. The dragon acts the part of God the
	Father, assigning his authority to his representative the beast, as
	the Father assigns His to the Son. They are accordingly jointly
	worshipped; compare as to the Father and Son, Revelation 20:10- :; as the ten-horned beast has its ten horns crowned with
	diadems (Greek, Revelation 20:10- :), so Christ has on His head many diadems. While the
	false prophet, like the Holy Ghost, speaks not of himself, but tells
	all men to worship the beast, and confirms his testimony to the beast
	by miracles, as the Holy Ghost attested similarly to Christ's
	divine mission.