12. angel—so Coptic and
	ANDREAS. A, B, C, Vulgate,
	and Syriac omit. 
	kings of the east—Greek,
	"the kings who are from the rising of the sun." Reference
	to the Euphrates similarly occurs in the sixth trumpet. The
	drying up of the Euphrates, I think, is to be taken
	figuratively, as Babylon itself, which is situated on it, is
	undoubtedly so, Revelation 17:5. The
	waters of the Euphrates (compare Isaiah 8:7;
	Isaiah 8:8) are spiritual Babylon's,
	that is, the apostate Church's (of which Rome is the chief, though
	not exclusive representative) spiritual and temporal powers. The
	drying up of the waters of Babylon expresses the same thing as the
	ten kings stripping, eating, and burning the whore. The phrase, "way
	may be prepared for," is that applied to the Lord's coming
	(Isaiah 40:3; Matthew 3:3;
	Luke 1:76). He shall come from
	the East (Matthew 24:27; Ezekiel 43:2,
	"the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the
	East"): not alone, for His elect transfigured saints of
	Israel and the Gentiles shall accompany Him, who are "kings
	and priests unto God" (Revelation 1:6).
	As the Antichristian ten kings accompany the beast, so the
	saints accompany as kings the King of kings to the last
	decisive conflict. DE
	BURGH and others take it
	of the Jews, who also were designed to be a kingdom of
	priests to God on earth. They shall, doubtless, become
	priest-kings in the flesh to the nations in the flesh at His coming.
	Abraham from the East (if Isaiah 41:2;
	Isaiah 41:8; Isaiah 41:9,
	refers to him, and not Cyrus) conquering the Chaldean kings is a type
	of Israel's victorious restoration to the priest-kingdom. Israel's
	exodus after the last Egyptian plagues typifies Israel's restoration
	after the spiritual Babylon, the apostate Church, has been smitten.
	Israel's promotion to the priest-kingdom after Pharaoh's downfall,
	and at the Lord's descent at Sinai to establish the theocracy,
	typifies the restored kingdom of Israel at the Lord's more glorious
	descent, when Antichrist shall be destroyed utterly. Thus, besides
	the transfigured saints, Israel secondarily may be meant by "the
	kings from the East" who shall accompany the "King of
	kings" returning "from the way of the East" to reign
	over His ancient people. As to the drying up again of the
	waters opposing His people's assuming the kingdom, compare
	Isaiah 10:26; Isaiah 11:11;
	Isaiah 11:15; Zechariah 10:9-11.
	The name Israel (Genesis 32:28)
	implies a prince with God. Compare Genesis 32:28- : as to the return of the kingdom to Jerusalem. DURHAM,
	several centuries ago, interpreted the drying up of the Euphrates to
	mean the wasting away of the Turkish power, which has heretofore held
	Palestine, and so the way being prepared for Israel's restoration.
	But as Babylon refers to the apostate Church, not to
	Mohammedanism, the drying up of the Euphrates (answering to Cyrus'
	overthrow of literal Babylon by marching into it through the dry
	channel of the Euphrates) must answer to the draining off of the
	apostate Church's resources, the Roman and Greek corrupt Church
	having been heretofore one of the greatest barriers by its idolatries
	and persecutions in the way of Israel's restoration and conversion.
	The kings of the earth who are earthly (Genesis 32:28- :), stand in contrast to the kings from the East who
	are heavenly.