2 Thessalonians 1:11.  To which end.  An expression equivalent to, and with a view to this glorious consummation.
	 We also pray.  We not only give you these assurances regarding this great future event, but in our prayers it is present to our thoughts, showing us more distinctly what you need to make you partakers of its glory.
	 That our God would count you worthy of this calling. This is the matter of his prayer, but blended, as Ellicott remarks, with the purpose of making it. The calling to which Paul refers is that destiny of the saints which he has just been describing. ‘Calling’ is here used, as it so commonly is in our familiar use of the word, for that to which a person is called, precisely as ‘hope’ is used not only of the sentiment within us, but also of the object which excites it. Of course no man is, strictly speaking, worthy of such a destiny. Had it been a mare matter of justice, such a prayer as this of Paul’s would have been inappropriate if not impertinent. But while it is by God’s grace any one is counted worthy, there is a corresponding conduct looked for and required in those who are visited by this grace. There is a ‘walking worthy of this vocation.’ Our Lord warns us (Luke 21:36) that watching and praying are needed if we are to be counted worthy; and we know that by a law of His kingdom, increased grace is given only to those who have rightly used what has already been bestowed. All this work, however, in and by the Christian is, as Paul here reminds us, ‘according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.’
	 Fulfil all the good pleasure of goodness and the work of faith. As the second member of this double petition certainly refers to the faith of the Thessalonians, it is probable that the first member of it likewise refers to the goodness of the Thessalonians. And this is confirmed by the circumstance that the word here translated ‘goodness’ is never used of the goodness of God, but always of that of men. The word rendered  ‘ good pleasure’ is that which Paul uses when he says, ‘My heart’s  desire  for Israel is, that they may be saved,’ and is commonly used for  desire,  especially (though not always) when the desire is a benevolent one. The prayer of Paul therefore is, that God would powerfully bring to complete and satisfactory result every desire or purpose which their goodness of heart engendered, or more probably would so increase their goodness as to make these desires themselves perfect, irrespective of their results, and would enable them to maintain and perfect that activity and endurance to which faith had prompted them. His mind still dwells on the two grand graces which the Thessalonians had displayed, their ‘work of  faith  and labour of  love’  (1 Thessalonians 1:3), and for these two graces he now begs completion.
	 With power,   i.e.  powerfully.
	