6. able—rather, as the Greek
	is the same, corresponding to  :-, translate, "sufficient as ministers"
	(Ephesians 3:7; Colossians 1:23).
	the new testament—"the
	new covenant" as contrasted with the Old Testament
	or covenant (1 Corinthians 11:25; Galatians 4:24).
	He reverts here again to the contrast between the law on "tables
	of stone," and that "written by the Spirit on fleshly
	tables of the heart" (2 Corinthians 3:3).
	not of the letter—joined
	with "ministers"; ministers not of the mere literal
	precept, in which the old law, as then understood, consisted;
	"but of the Spirit," that is, the spiritual holiness
	which lay under the old law, and which the new covenant brings to
	light (Matthew 5:17-48) with
	new motives added, and a new power of obedience
	imparted, namely, the Holy Spirit (Matthew 5:17-40.5.48- :). Even in writing the letter of the New Testament,
	Paul and the other sacred writers were ministers not of the
	letter, but of the spirit. No piety of spirit could exempt a man
	from the yoke of the letter of each legal ordinance under the Old
	Testament; for God had appointed this as the way in which He chose a
	devout Jew to express his state of mind towards God. Christianity, on
	the other hand, makes the spirit of our outward observances
	everything, and the letter a secondary consideration (Matthew 5:17-40.5.48- :). Still the moral law of the ten commandments, being written
	by the finger of God, is as obligatory now as ever; but put more on
	the Gospel spirit of "love," than on the letter of a
	servile obedience, and in a deeper and fuller spirituality (Matthew 5:17-48;
	Romans 13:9). No literal precepts
	could fully comprehend the wide range of holiness which LOVE, the
	work of the Holy Spirit, under the Gospel, suggests to the believer's
	heart instinctively from the word understood in its deep
	spirituality. 
	letter killeth—by
	bringing home the knowledge of guilt and its punishment, death;
2 Corinthians 3:7, "ministration of
	death" (Romans 7:9). 
	spirit giveth life—The
	spirit of the Gospel when brought home to the heart by the Holy
	Spirit, gives new spiritual life to a man (Romans 6:4;
	Romans 6:11). This "spirit of
	life" is for us in Christ Jesus (Romans 8:2;
	Romans 8:10), who dwells in the
	believer as a "quickening" or "life-giving Spirit"
	(1 Corinthians 15:45). Note, the
	spiritualism of rationalists is very different. It would admit no
	"stereotyped revelation," except so much as man's own inner
	instrument of revelation, the conscience and reason, can approve of:
	thus making the conscience judge of the written word, whereas the
	apostles make the written word the judge of the conscience (Acts 17:11;
	1 Peter 4:1). True spirituality rests
	on the whole written word, applied to the soul by the Holy Spirit as
	the only infallible interpreter of its far-reaching spirituality. The
	letter is nothing without the spirit, in a subject
	essentially spiritual. The spirit is nothing without the
	letter, in a record substantially historical.