And shall receive [κομιουμενοι] . Lit., being about or destined to receive. See on 1 Peter 1:9, and compare 1 Peter 5:4. Some good texts read ajdikoumenoi, suffering wrong. So Rev., suffering wrong as the hire of wrong - doing. Reward of unrighteousness [μισθον αδικιας] . Misqov is hire, and so is rendered in Rev. Compare Matthew 20:8; Luke 10:7; John 4:36. It also has in classical Greek the general sense of reward, and so very often in the New Testament, in passages where hire or wages would be inappropriate. Thus Matthew 5:12; Matthew 6:1; Matthew 10:41. Hire would seem to be better here, because of the reference to Balaam in ver. 15, where the word occurs again and requires that rendering. The phrase misqov, reward or wages of iniquity, occurs only here and in Peter's speech concerning Judas (Acts 1:18), where the Rev. retains the rendering of the A. V., reward of iniquity. It would have been better to render wages of iniquity in both places. Iniquity and unrighteousness are used in English almost synonymously; though, etymologically, iniquity emphasizes the idea of injustice (inaequus), while unrighteousness (non - rightness) is more general, implying all deviation from right, whether involving another's interests or not. This distinction is not, however, observed in the Rev., where the rendering of adikia, and of the kindred adjective adikov, varies unaccountably, if not capriciously, between unrighteous and unjust. As they that count it pleasure to riot [ηδονην ηγουμενοι τρυφην] . The as of the A. V. is needless. The discourse proceeds from ver. 13 by a series of participles, as far as following (ver. 15). Literally the passage runs, counting riot a pleasure. Riot [τρυφην] . Meaning rather daintiness, delicacy, luxuriousness. Even the Rev. revel is almost too strong. Compare Luke 7:25, the only other passage where the word occurs, and where the Rev. retains the A. V., live delicately. So, also, Rev. substitutes, in James 5:5, lived delicately for lived in pleasure. In the daytime. Compare Peter's words Acts 2:15; also, 1 Thessalonians 5:7. Spots [σπιλοι] . Only here and Ephesians 5:27. Compare the kindred participle spotted (Jude 1:23), and defileth (James 3:0; 6). Blemishes [μωμοι] . Only here in New Testament. The negatives of the two terms spots and blemishes occur at 1 Peter 1:19. Sporting themselves [εντρυφωντες] . From trufh, luxuriousness. See on riot. Rev., revelling. With their own deceivings [εν ταις απαταις αυτων] . The Rev., however, follows another reading, which occurs in the parallel passage Jude 1:12 ajgapaiv, love - feasts, the public banquets instituted by the early Christians, and connected with the celebration of the Lord 's Supper. Rev. renders revelling in their love - feasts, though the American Committee insist on deceivings. On the abuses at these feasts, see 1 Corinthians 11:20-22. For auJtwn, their own, the best texts read aujtwn, their. While they feast with you [συνευωχουμενοι] . The word originally conveys the idea of sumptuous feasting, and is appropriate in view of the fact to which Peter alludes, that these sensualists converted the love - feast into a revel. Compare Paul 's words, 1 Corinthians 11:21, "one is hungry and another drunken." This seems to favor the reading ajgapaiv. The word occurs only here and Jude 1:12.