But. Introducing a contrast with those who spake by the Holy Ghost (ch. 1 21). There were [εγενοντο] . Rev., better, there arose. There shall be. Note that Peter speaks of them as future, and Jude 1:4) as present. False teachers [ψευδοδιδασκαλοι] . Only here in New Testament. Who [οιτινες] . Of that kind or class which, etc. Privily shall bring in [παρεισαξουσιν] . Only here in New Testament. The kindred adjective occurs in Galatians 2:4, "false brethren privily brought in" [παρεισακτους] . The metaphor is of spies or traitors introducing themselves into an enemy 's camp. Compare Jude 1:4, crept in unawares. The verb means, literally, to bring [αγειν] into [εις] by the side of [παρα] . Damnable heresies [αιρεσεις απωλειας] . Lit., heresies of destruction. Rev., destructive heresies. Heresy is a transcript of airesiv, the primary meaning of which is choice; so that a heresy is, strictly, the choice of an opinion contrary to that usually received; thence transferred to the body of those who profess such opinions, and therefore a sect. So Rev., in margin, sects of perdition. Commonly in this sense in the New Testament (Acts 5:17; Acts 14:5; Acts 28:22), though the Rev. has an odd variety in its marginal renderings. See Acts 24:14; 1 Corinthians 11:19; Galatians 5:20. The rendering heretical doctrines seems to agree better with the context; false teachers bringing in sects is awkward. Denying. A significant word from Peter. The Lord [δεσποτην] . In most cases in the New Testament the word is rendered master, the Rev. changing Lord to master in every case but two - Luke 2:29; Acts 4:24; and in both instances putting master in margin, and reserving Lord for the rendering of kuriov. In three of these instances the word is used in direct address to God; and it may be asked why the Rev. changes Lord to Master in the text of Revelation 6:10, and retains Lord in Luke 2:29; Acts 4:24. In five out of the ten occurrences of the word in the New Testament it means master of the household. Originally, it indicates absolute, unrestricted authority, so that the Greeks refused the title to any but the gods. In the New Testament despothv and kuriov are used interchangeably of God, and of masters of servants. Swift [ταχινην] . Used by Peter only. See on ch. 2 Peter 1:14.