 14. ] An assurance, confirming (by the γάρ ) the  possibility of the surrender to God commanded in the last verse,  that sin shall not be able to assert and maintain its rule in those who are not under the law but under grace . The future κυριεύσει cannot be taken as a command or exhortation, which use of the future would if not always, yet certainly here, require the second person, and would hardly suit a personification like ἁμαρτία .
	The second part of the verse refers back to ch. Romans 5:20-21 , where the law is stated to be the multiplier of transgression, and accords with 1 Corinthians 15:56 , ἡ δύναμις τῆς ἁμαρτίας , ὁ νόμος . The stress is on  κυριεύσει : q. d. ‘Your efforts to live a life of freedom from the tyranny of sin shall not be frustrated by its after all tyrannizing over you and asserting its dominion: for ye are not under that law which is the strength of sin, but under that grace (here in the widest sense, justifying and sanctifying, grace in all its attributes and workings) in which is no condemnation,’ ch. Romans 8:1 .
	It will be seen from the above, that I interpret κυριεύσει rather of the  eventual triumph of sin by obtaining domination over us, than of its reducing us under its subjection as servants in this life. This is necessary, both to fit this verse into the context, and to suit the question which arises in the next. See Calvin’s masterly note. So also Tholuck and De Wette.
	The discussions (in Stuart and al.) as to whether νόμ . is the moral or ceremonial law, and as to whether we are bound by the former, are irrelevant here: the assertion being merely that of the general  matter of fact , about which there can be no question, that we (Christians) are not  under the law , placed in a covenant of legal obedience, but under grace, placed in a covenant of justification by faith and under the promise of the indwelling Spirit subjects of a  higher law even the  law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus , ch. Romans 8:2 . Whether we are  bound by the law, and how far, depends on how far the law itself spoke the immutable moral truth of God’s government of the world, or was adapted to temporary observances and symbolic rites now abolished, the whole of which subject is not under consideration here. I make these remarks to justify myself for not entering into those long and irrelevant discussions with which many of our commentaries are interrupted, and the sense of the Apostle’s argument confounded.