 5. ] The Apostle confirms the last verse by a necessary sequence that  those who are united to Him in His Death, shall be also in His resurrection .  For (confirmatory)  if we have become united with the likeness of His Death ( σύμφυτος = either (1) ‘  congenital ,’ as διὰ τὴν σύμφυτον δικαιοσύνην , spoken of Samuel, Jos. Antt. vi. 3. 3, or (2) ‘  cognate ,’ of like nature, or (3) ‘  arising simultaneously ,’ or (4) ‘  grown together ,’ or (5) ‘  planted with ,’ ‘consitus.’ The rendering of Syr., Vulg., Luth., E. V., ‘  planted together ,’ is inadmissible, - φυτος being not from φυτεύω , but from φύω : as also is that of Erasm. and Calv., ‘  insititii .’ The fourth meaning, ‘  grown together ,’ ‘intimately and progressively united,’ ‘coaluimus,’ as Grot., seems here to apply best. Obs. σύμφ . is to be connected with τῷ ὁμ ., not with τῷ χριστῷ understood, as in Romans 6:6 ; in which case we should have to supply τῷ ὁμοιώματι again before τῆς ἀναστάσεως , which would be not only grammatically difficult, but would not correspond to the sense: for Christians, it is true, partake of the  likeness only of Christ’s  death , but of His  actual Resurrection itself , as the change of construction shews: see below),  so shall we be also ( ἀλλά after a hypothetical clause serves to strengthen the inference: see reff., and Hartung, Partikellehre, ii. p. 40)  with His Resurrection (a change of construction: because it could not well have been said σύμφυτοι τοῦ ὁμοιώματος τ . θ . above, the gen. after adjectives compounded with σύν denoting the thing actually partaken (cf. Kühner, § 519, and Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 171: who cites examples in σύντροφος , Soph. Philoct. 203, σύννομος , Eur. Hel. 1508, σύμφωνος , Aristoph. Av. 658, συμφυής , Plato Legg. iv. p. 721, συνήθης , ib. v. p. 739, σύμψηφος , Cratyl. p. 398), and hardly the mere figure or likeness of it, and similarly it could not well here be said σύμφ . τῇ ἀναστάσει , because the dat. would not be strong enough to denote the state of which we shall be actual partakers.
	The future is used  perhaps because of the  inference , as a logical sequence, ‘If, &c., … A  shall = B:’ but more probably with a deeper meaning, because the participation in His Resurrection, however partially and in the inner spiritual life, attained  here , will only then be accomplished in our entire being, when we ‘shall wake up after his likeness’).