The minister - λειτουργὸν leitourgon. This is not the word which is commonly translated “minister” διάκονος diakonos. This word is properly appropriated to those who minister in public offices or the affairs of the state. In the New Testament it is applied mainly to the Levitical priesthood, who ministered and served at the altar; Hebrews 11:11. It is however applied to the ministers of the New Testament, as discharging “substantially” the same offices toward the church which were discharged by the Levitical priesthood; that is, as engaged in promoting the welfare of the church, occupied in holy things, etc.; Acts 13:2, “as they “ministered” to the Lord and fasted,” etc. It is still used in a larger sense in Romans 15:27; 2 Corinthians 9:12.To the Gentiles - Compare Romans 1:5; Acts 9:15.Ministering - ἱερουργοῦντα hierourgounta. Performing the function of a priest in respect to the gospel of God. The office of a “priest” was to offer sacrifice. Paul here retains the “language,” though without affirming or implying that the ministers of the New Testament were literally “priests” to offer sacrifice. The word used here occurs nowhere else in the New Testament. Its meaning here is to be determined from the connection. The question is, What is the “sacrifice” of which he speaks? It is the “offering up” - the sacrifice of the Gentiles. The Jewish sacrifices were abolished. The Messiah had fulfilled the design of their appointment, and they were to be done away. (See the Epistle to the Hebrews.) There was to be no further “literal” sacrifice. But now the “offerings” of the Gentiles were to be as acceptable as had been the offerings of the Jews. God made no distinction; and in speaking of these offerings, Paul used “figurative” language drawn from the Jewish rites. But assuredly he did not mean that the offerings of the Gentiles were “literal” sacrifices to expiate sins; nor did he mean that there was to be an order of men who were to be called “priests” under the New Testament. If this passage “did” prove that, it would prove that it should be confined to the “apostles,” for it is of them only that he uses it. The meaning is this: “Acting in the Christian church substantially as the priests did among the Jews; that is, endeavoring to secure the acceptableness of the offerings which the Gentiles make to God.”That the offering up - The word here rendered “offering up” προσφορά prosphora commonly means “a sacrifice” or an “expiatory” offering, and is applied to Jewish sacrifices; Acts 21:26; Acts 24:17. It is also applied to the sacrifice which was made by our Lord Jesus Christ when he offered himself on the cross for the sins of people; Ephesians 5:2; Hebrews 10:10. It does not always mean “bloody” sacrifices, but is used to denote “any” offering to God; Hebrews 10:5, Hebrews 10:8,Hebrews 10:14, Hebrews 10:18. Hence, it is used in this large sense to denote the “offering” which the Gentiles who were converted to Christianity made of themselves; their “devoting” or dedicating themselves to God. The “language” is derived from the customs of the Jews; and the apostle represents himself “figuratively” as a priest presenting this offering to God.Might be acceptable - Or, approved by God. This was in accordance with the prediction in Isaiah 66:20, “They shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the Lord out of all nations,” etc. This does not mean that it was by any merit of the apostle that this offering was to be rendered “acceptable”; but that he was appointed to prepare the way, so that “their” offering, as well as that of the “Jews,” might come up before God.Being sanctified - That is, “the offering” being sanctified, or made holy. The sacrifice was “prepared” or made fit “to be” an offering, among the Jews, by salt, oil, or frankincense, according to the nature of the sacrifice; Leviticus 6:14, etc. In allusion to this, the apostle says that the offering of the Gentiles was rendered “holy,” or fit to be offered, by the converting and purifying influences of the Holy Spirit. They were prepared, not by salt and frankincense, but by the cleansing influences of God’s Spirit. The same idea, substantially, is expressed by the apostle Peter in Acts 10:46; Acts 11:17.