 4 .]  But observe (some take  θεωρεῖτε indicative, but the imperative seems far better, both with regard to the sense of the verb, and the requirements of the context. The  δέ also tends to sharpen up the verb. The distinction between θεωρέω and ὁράω , as  behold and  see , is, it is true, not always observed (see Luke 24:39 ; John 4:19 ; John 12:19 ; Act 17:22 ), still less that laid down in Phavorinus, ὁρῶ μὲν ἐπὶ σώματος , θεωρῶ δὲ ἐπὶ ψυχῆς : but where the context plainly allows of the distinction, it ought to be borne in mind: so Demosth. p. 19. 23, θεωρῶν καὶ σκοπῶν εὑρίσκω : 93. 9, θεωρεῖτε γὰρ τὸ παρὸν πρῶτον ὃ γίνεται : Ceb. Tab. 38, σὺ τοίνυν οὕτω θεώρησον : and other examples in Bleek)  how great (‘quantus qualisque,’ of what dignity and personal excellence)  this man (  was ) (let it be noticed that the argument still puts forward the personal dignity of Melchisedek, in a way quite inconsistent with the commonly received interpretation of the predicates above),  to whom Abraham paid tithes also (went so far as to pay tithes, the  καί belonging to δεκάτην ἔδωκεν , and of these, rather to δεκάτην , separated as it is from its verb),  from the best (  of the spoil ) (  τὰ ἀκροθίνια , neut. plur. from ἀκροθίνιος , literally that which comes from the top of an heap, and so the first-fruits, usually of spoils: Bl. quotes from the Schol. on Eur. Phœn. 213, ἀκροθίνια κυρίως αἱ τῶν καρπῶν ἀπαρχαί , παρὰ τὸν θῖνα , ὅ ἐστι , τὸν σῶρον τῆς ἅλω , καταχρηστικῶς δὲ λέγονται καὶ αἱ ἀπαρχαὶ τῆς λείας . So Herod. viii. 121, πρῶτα μὲν νῦν τοῖσι θεοῖσι ἐξεῖλον ἀκροθίνια ἄλλα τε καὶ τριήρεας τρεῖς Φοινίσσας , and 122, πέμψαντες δὲ ἀκροθίνια οἱ Ἕλληνες ἐς Δελφούς . See many more examples in Wetst., Elsner, and Kypke. And in consequence, some have pressed here the proper meaning, and understood, that Abraham gave to Melchisedek the tenth of that portion of the spoil which was already set apart for God. But, considering that these words merely take up δεκάτην ἀπὸ πάντων of Heb 7:2 and of Genesis, it is more natural to understand τὰ ἀκροθίνια in a wider and less proper sense, of the booty itself, as indeed all booty brought away might be considered as the primitiæ, the choice part, in contradistinction to the more worthless portion which was left behind. This general sense does not indeed appear in classic Greek, nor elsewhere in Hellenistic: and when Hesych. and Phavorinus give as alternative meanings, σκῦλα , and τὰ ἀπὸ τῶν πολέμων λάφυρα , it is probable that this passage was before them. So that Bleek, with Hammond and Grotius, would understand, after Thl., ἐκ τῶν ἀκροθινίων , τουτέστιν ἐκ τῶν λαφύρων τῶν κρειττόνων καὶ τιμιωτέρων . This he thinks is favoured by the  ἐκ , which rather indicates that whereof the tithe consisted, than that of which ( ἀπό ) it was the tithe),  the patriarch (added at the end of the sentence to emphasize the title: ‘  and he, the illustrious patriarch :’ οὐχ ὁ τυχὼν ἄνθρωπος , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ Ἀβραάμ , ὁ τοσοῦτος , ὁ πατριάρχης · οὐκ ἀλόγως γὰρ τὸ  πατριάρχης προσέθηκεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἵν ʼ ἐξάρῃ τὸ πρόσωπον . Thl. Tholuck has noticed the full rhythm of the word itself, as forming the foot called Ionicus a minore, with which, and the Pæon tertius, orators love to end their sentences. “The word  πατριάρχης is Hellenistic: formed from ἀρχή and πατριά , the last in the Hellenistic sense denoting single families and lines of descent, the minor subdivisions of races. It is often found in the LXX version of the Chronicles for the heads of these families. Later however it was used to signify also the head and originator of a race; in Acts 7:8-9 , it is used of the twelve sons of Jacob, as heads of the tribes; in 4Ma 7:19 , of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; in Acts 2:29 , of David.” Bleek).