 26 .]  For such (i. e. such as is above described: retrospective, not prospective, as some have taken it. Then the following adjectives serve as appositional predicates, carrying forward  τοιοῦτος , and enlarging on the attributes of our High Priest, which were already slightly touched ch. Heb 4:14-15 )  an High Priest was for us (emphasis on  ἡμῖν )  becoming also (on  ἔπρεπεν see above, ch. Hebrews 2:10 . The  καί adds, and rises into a climax. ‘Nay, not only for all the above-mentioned reasons, but even for this’),  holy (we have no other word to express  ὅσιος , which yet is never by the LXX confounded with ἅγιος , the latter being the rendering of קָדוֹשׁ , the former ordinarily of חָסִיד . In the classical usage of  οσιος , it seems primarily to be predicated of  places and things : but Bleek is not correct when he says that it is seldom used of persons, for it is frequently so found in Homer, Æschyl., Eurip., Aristoph., Thucyd., Xen., Plato, al.: see Palm and Rost sub voce. It seems always to betoken, in such use,  piety towards God ; and is in this sense often used with δίκαιος ,  just towards men : e. g. ὑμᾶς ὁσιωτάτους κ . δικαιοτάτους εἶναι τῶν Ἑλλήνων , Isocr. p. 297 B: δίκαιος κ . ὅσιος βίος , Plato, Legg. ii. p. 663 D. Here, we cannot help connecting it with the τὸν ὅσιόν σου of Ps. 15:10, as the especial title of the incarnate Son of God, perfect in piety and reverent holiness towards His Heavenly Father),  harmless (  ἄκακος τί ἐστιν ; ἀπόνηρος οὐδ ʼ ὕπουλος . καὶ ὅτι τοιοῦτος , ἄκουε τοῦ προφήτου λέγοντος · οὐδὲ εὑρέθη δόλος ἐν τῷ στόματι αὐτοῦ . Chrys. It betokens simplicity, and freedom from vice or evil suspicion: see ref. Rom.),  undefiled (reff.: not only from legal, but from moral pollution, in deed, word, and thought),  separated from sinners ( ἀπὸ  τῶν ἁμ ., from  the whole race and category of sinners. This lets us into the true meaning, which is, not that Christ, ever and throughout, was free from sin (so Syr. (“separatus a peccatis”), Thl., Calv., Camero, Kuinoel, Klee, Ebrard, and many others), however true that may be, but (cf. next clause) that in his service as our High Priest, He, as the Levitical high priests in their service (Leviticus 21:10 ff.), is void of all contact and commerce with sinners, removed far away in his glorified state and body, into God’s holy place. So Grot., Bengel, Peirce, Tholuck, Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Delitzsch. This expression exactly answers to that in ch. Hebrews 9:28 , where it is said that He shall come a second time χωρὶς ἁμαρτίας : see there),  and made (  advanced to be : cf. especially John 1:15 , ὁ ὀπίσω μου ἐρχόμενος ἔμπροσθέν μου  γέγονεν  . τὸ δὲ γενόμενος , says Thl., δῆλον πᾶσιν , ὅτι περὶ τοῦ κατὰ σάρκα . ὡς γὰρ θεὸς λόγος , ἦν ἀεὶ τῶν οὐρανῶν ὑψηλότερος )  higher than the heavens (see reff.):