 14 .]  Proof of Hebrews 7:13 .  For it is plain to all (  πρόδηλον , of that which lies before men’s eyes, plain and undoubted. τὸ πρόδηλον , ὡς ἀναντίῤῥητον τέθεικε , Thdrt. Jos. B. J. ii. 3. 1, πρόδηλον ἦν τὸ ἔθνος οὐκ ἠρεμῆσον : and other examples in Wetst. and Bleek)  that our Lord (this is the only place in Scripture where Christ is called by this appellation, now so familiar to us, without the addition of either His personal or official name. 2 Peter 3:15 , τὴν μακροθυμίαν τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν , is hardly an exception: see there)  hath arisen (some have thought that this word, which, as an intransitive verb, is generally used of the heavenly bodies, has reference to our Lord’s rising as a Sun of righteousness: so Malachi 4:2 , ἀνατελεῖ ὑμῖν … ἥλιος δικαιοσύνης : Isaiah 60:1 , ἥκει σου τὸ φῶς κ . ἡ δόξα κυρίου ἐπί σε ἀνατέταλκεν : Numbers 24:17 , ἀνατελεῖ ἄστρον ἐξ Ἰακώβ , to which Thl. thinks there is allusion here: σεμνὴ ἡ λέξις τὸ ἀνατέταλκε , καὶ ἐκ τῆς τοῦ Βαλαὰμ προφητείας ληφθεῖσα καὶ ἐκ τοῦ Μαλαχίου κ . τ . λ . And it is quite legitimate, and a very beautiful thought, to regard these sublime ideas as having been in the Writer’s mind, while at the same time we confess, that the word is used of the springing or rising up of other things, e. g. of water, Herod. iv. 52: and especially of the sprouting of plants Jos. Antt. i. 1, εὐθὺς φυτά τε καὶ σπέρματα γῆθεν ἀνέτειλεν : and see reff. And in this sense probably is ἀνατολή given as the rendering of צֶמַח , “Branch,” Zechariah 3:1 ; Zechariah 6:12 , though the two ideas, of the Sun, and of a branch, came to be mingled together, as in Luk 1:78 )  out of Judah (this word may be the name, either of the tribe, or of the patriarch. From Genesis 49:9-10 , it would appear to be the personal name: but preceded and followed as it is here by φυλῆς ἐτέρας , and εἰς ἣν φυλήν , it would rather seem to be that of the tribe),  with reference to (  εἰς nearly as  ἐπί above; that which is said with reference to any one, being regarded as tending towards, and finding its issue in him: for its usage, see reff.)  which tribe Moses said nothing concerning priests (i. e. nothing to imply that any priest should be or be consecrated out of it: πάντα γὰρ τὰ τῆς ἱερωσύνης εἰς τὴν Λευϊτικὴν ἀνέθηκε φυλήν . Thl.).