 18, 19 .] These verses belong to the proof of 15 17, expanding the conclusion thence derived, and expressing it more decidedly than before in Hebrews 7:12 .
	 For moreover (  μὲν γάρ , at the same time that by the γάρ it carries on the reasoning, by the elliptic μέν suggests some succeeding position as introduced by a δέ . So Eurip. Med. 698, ξυγγνωστὰ μὲν γὰρ ἦν σε λυπεῖσθαι , γύναι “certainly, I concede it, thy grief was pardonable, … (but …):” and in a sentence made as an example, ἐγὼ μὲν καὶ Διονύσιος ἐδειπνοῦμεν , σὺ μὲν γὰρ οὐ παρεγένου “for you, you will remember, were not there (but we were).” See Hartung, Partikell. ii. 414. So here we may regard the  μέν as elliptical, and pointing at an understood contrast in the permanence of the ζωὴ ἀκατάλυτος just mentioned. It is hardly possible, even with the right construction of the sentence (see below), to regard this μέν as answering to the δέ following ἐπεισαγωγή : its connexion with the γάρ will not allow this. If this had been intended, we should have expected the form of the sentence to be ἀθέτησις γὰρ γίνεται τῆς μὲν προαγούσης ἐντολῆς )  there takes place ( ἀπὸ κοινοῦ τὸ γίνεται , Œc.: that is, it belongs to both ἀθέτησις and ἐπεισαγωγή see below)  an abrogation ( τί ἐστιν  ἀθέτησις ; ἄμειψις , ἐκβολή , Chrys.: ἀθέτησις , τουτέστιν ἐναλλαγὴ κ . ἐκβολή , Thl. Though no where else found in all Greek, except in the two places in this Epistle, it is a perfectly regular word from ἀθετέω , as νουθέτησις , νομοθέτησις )  of the preceding commandment (  ἐντολῆς is anarthrous because the epithet προαγούσης is thrown strongly forward into emphasis, which emphasis would be weakened by τῆς preceding, and altogether lost in τῆς ἐντολῆς τῆς προαγούσης . The ἐντολή intended is that mentioned in Hebrews 7:16 , according to which the priesthood was constituted, not, as Chrys., Thdrt., Œc., Thl., Prim., Calv., Grot., Hamm., Kuinoel, al., the whole Mosaic law, however much that may be  involved in the assertion, cf. the parenthesis in Hebrews 7:11 . This commandment went before not merely in time, but was an introduction to and gave way before the greater and final ordinance)  on account of its weakness and unprofitableness (on the neuter concrete where the abstract substantive would rather be looked for, see Winer, edn. 6, § 34. 2, and besides reff., Romans 2:4 ; Romans 9:22 ; ch. Heb 6:17 al. Romans 8:3 , as Galatians 4:9 , is remarkably parallel, both in thought and mode of expression: one of those coincidences which could hardly take place where there was not community of thought and diction),  for the law perfected nothing (this parenthetical clause is inserted to explain the implication contained in αὐτῆς ἀσθενὲς κ . ἀνωφελές . The law had not the power to bring any thing whatever to perfection, to its appointed end and excellence: perfection, in any kind, was not by the law. This assertion must not be limited by making  οὐδέν represent a masculine, as Chrys. ( τὶ ἐστιν , οὐδὲν ἐτελείωσεν ; οὐδένα , φησίν , τέλειον εἰργάσατο παρακουόμενος . ἄλλως δέ · οὐδὲ εἰ ἠκούσθη , τέλειον ἐποίησεν ἂν καὶ ἐνάρετον . τέως δὲ οὐ τοῦτό φησιν ὁ λόγος ἐνταῦθα , ἀλλ ʼ ὃτι οὐδὲν ἴσχυσε · καὶ εἰκότως · γράμματα γὰρ ἦν κείμενα , τόδε πρᾶττε καὶ τόδε μὴ πρᾶττε · ὑποτιθέμενα μόνον , οὐχὶ δὲ καὶ δύναμιν ἐντιθέντα . ἡ δὲ ἐλπὶς οὐ τοιαύτη ). Similarly Œc. and Thl.),  and (  δέ , see above on μὲν γάρ : ‘  and ’ is the only English conjunction which will preserve the true connexion and construction of the sentence) (there takes place; γίνεται belongs to this also, see below)  an introduction (  ἐπεισαγωγή ,  superintroductio , a  bringing in besides : the law being already there, this is brought in to and upon it: see ref.)  of a better hope (the contrast is between the προάγουσα ἐντολή , weak and unprofitable, and a better thing, viz. the ἐλπίς which brings us near to God. This κρείττονός τινος , τουτέστιν , ἐλπίδος κ . τ . λ ., is expressed by κρείττονος ἐλπίδος . This seems more natural, than with Chrys., Œc., Thl., Prim., to suppose any comparison between the earthly hopes held out in the old covenant, and the heavenly hope of the new ( εἶχε καὶ ὁ νόμος ἐλπίδα , φησίν , ἀλλ ʼ οὐ τοιαύτην · ἤλπιζον γὰρ εὐαρεστήσαντες ἕξειν τὴν γῆν , μηδὲν πείσεσθαι δεινόν · ἐνταῦθα δὲ ἐλπίζομεν εὐαρεστήσαντες , οὐ γῆν καθέξειν , ἀλλὰ τὸν οὐρανόν . Chrys.)),  by means of which we draw near to God (this note, of personal access to God, has been twice struck before, ch. Hebrews 4:16 ; Hebrews 6:19 , and is further on in the Epistle expanded into a whole strain of argument. See ch. Hebrews 9:11 ff.; Hebrews 10:19 ff. It is that access, which was only carnally and symbolically open to them by shedding of the blood of sacrifices, but has been spiritually and really opened to us by the shedding of Christ’s blood once for all, so that we being justified by faith can approach the very throne of God. The word ἐγγίζειν is the technical term in the LXX for the  drawing near of the priests in their sacrificial ministrations.
	Notice the reading ἐγγίζωμεν , found in A al., as throwing light on the famous ἔχωμεν , Rom 5:1 ). It remains to treat of the connexion of the above sentence, Hebrews 7:18-19 , which has been entirely mistaken by many, and among them by E. V. The ending clause, ἐπεισαγωγὴ δὲ κ . τ . λ ., has been wrongly joined with οὐδὲν γὰρ ἐτελείωσεν ὁ νόμος : and that, either, 1. as  subject to ἐτελείωσεν , as E. V., “  but the bringing in of a better hope did ” (Beza appears here, as in so many other cases, to have led our translators into error; and so also render Castellio, Paræus, Schlichting, Seb. Schmidt, Michaelis, Stuart, al.): or, 2. as predicate to νόμος preceding, “  For the law perfected nothing, but was the introduction ,” &c. So Faber Stap., Erasmus (par., “Lex … in hoc data est ad tempus ut nos perduceret ad spem meliorem”), Vatabl., Calvin, Jac. Cappel., Pyle, al. This latter is successfully impugned by Beza, on the ground that the law was not an ἐπεισαγωγή at all, from the very meaning (see above) of that word. The form of the sentence is also against it, in which the first member of the predicate, οὐδὲν γὰρ ἐτελ . ὁ ν ., has a definite verb expressed, whereas the verb of the second member would have to be understood. But neither is Beza’s own connexion allowable: for first, it would be difficult to take out a positive verb and object from the clause οὐδὲν γὰρ ἐτελ . ὁ νόμος to supply after the subject ἐπεισαγωγή : secondly, there is no proper opposition in the arrangement of the two clauses οὐδὲν γὰρ … ἐπεισαγωγὴ δέ : as the object was thrown emphatically forward in the first, so should it be at least expressed in the second: and thirdly, the position and anarthrousness of ἐπεισαγωγή itself are against the rendering: we should at least expect ἡ δὲ ἐπεισαγωγή , and probably ἡ δὲ κρείττονος ἐλπίδος ἐπεισαγ . There is a third alternative, which Calvin takes, “nihil enim lex perfecit, sed accessit introductio.” But this, though tolerable sense, is harsher than either of the others. Ebrard indeed approves it, and in his usual slashing manner calls the interpretation of Bleek &c.  ein sinnloser Gedanke : but as usual also, he misunderstands the intent of that  Gedanke : viz. that  in these words , σύ ἱερεὺς εἰς τὸν αἰ . κ . τ . λ ., there takes place both the ἀθέτησις and the ἐπεισαγωγή a thought which, whether right or wrong, is surely not without sense.