 16 .]  who (viz. ἱερεὺς ἕτερος . τίς ; ὁ Μελχισεδὲκ οὗτος ; οὔ ἀλλ ʼ ὁ χριστός . Chrys.: and so Œc. Thl. mentions both ways of taking it, and expounds both at some length)  is appointed (hath become priest)  not according to the law of a carnal commandment (i. e. not in accordance with, following out, the rule and order of an exterior ordinance founded on the present fleshly and decaying state of things. So Thdrt., σαρκικὴν γὰρ ἐντολὴν τοῦτο κέκληκεν , ὡς τοῦ νόμου διὰ τὸ θνητὸν τῶν ἀνθρώπων κελεύοντος , μετὰ τὴν τοῦ ἀρχιερέως τελευτήν , τὸν ἐκείνου παῖδα τὴν ἱερωσύνην λαμβάνειν . And so most Commentators. But others take  νόμος to mean strictly the law of Moses as a whole, and ἐντολῆς σαρκίνης as = a plural, and designating the character of those commandments of which the law was composed. So Syr., Chrys. ( καλῶς αὐτόν τὸν νόμον ἐντολὴν ἐκάλεσε σαρκικήν · πάντα γὰρ ὅσα διωρίζετο σαρκικὰ ἦν . τὸ γὰρ λέγειν , περίτεμε τὴν σάρκα , χρῖσον τ . σάρκα , λοῦσον τ . σάρκα , καθάρισον τ . σάρκα , περίκειρον τ . σάρκα , ἐπίδησον τ . σάρκα , θρέψον τ . σάρκα , ἀργῆσον τῇ σαρκί , ταῦτα , εἰπέ μοι , οὐχὶ σαρκικά ; εἰ δὲ θέλεις μαθεῖν καὶ τίνα ἃ ἐπηγγέλλετο ἀγαθά , ἄκουε · πολλὴ ζωή , φησί , τῇ σαρκί , γάλα κ . μέλι τῇ σαρκί , εἰρήνη τῇ σαρκί , τρυφὴ τῇ σαρκί . ἀπὸ τούτου τοῦ νόμου τὴν ἱερωσύνην ἔλαβεν ὁ Ἀαρών · ὁ μέντοι Μελχισεδὲκ οὐχ οὕτω ), Œc. ( τί ἐστι , κατὰ νόμον ἐντ . σαρκ .; ὅτι ὁ νόμος τὰς ἐντολὰς σαρκικὰς εἶχεν , οἷον περιτομήν , ἀργίαν , τόδε φαγεῖν κ . τόδε μὴ φαγεῖν , ὅπερ σαρκός ἦν κ . οὐ ψυχῆς καθάρεσια · οὐ γέγονιν οὖν ἀρχιερεὺς ἀπὸ τοῦ νόμου τοῦ τὰς σαρκικὰς ἐντολὰς ἐντελλομένου ). Other Commentators, who take  νόμον as I have done above, yet understand  σαρκίνης as a subjective epithet, a law which was in itself transitory: so Böhme, Kuinoel, al.),  but according to the power of an indissoluble life (the two clauses closely correspond in rhythm, as is much the practice of the Writer. The  power here spoken of does not, however, strictly correspond, in its relation to the priesthood spoken of, with ‘the law of a carnal commandment’ above. That was the rule, by and after which the priesthood was constituted: this, the vigour inherent in the glorious priesthood of Christ, for it is of His enduring Melchisedek-priesthood in glory (see Delitzsch and Hofmann) that this is spoken to endure for ever. Camero, Calovius, al., have thought  δύναμις to be, Christ’s power to confer life on others: Carpzov, al., the enduring nature of the divine decree which constituted this priesthood: but both are shewn to be wrong by the next verse, in which the ἱερεὺς εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα is the point brought out).