 1 3 .] This forms grammatically but one sentence, μένει being the only verb, and the adjectives ἀπάτωρ &c. being only epithets, not predicates. This has been mistaken by Erasmus, Luther, Calvin, Beza, al., who supply ἐστι to βασιλεὺς Σαλήμ and the following clauses.
	The epithetal clauses themselves however have some distinction from one another. As far as Ἀβραάμ , they are merely axiomatic, or historical, referring to matters of fact: after that they are predicatory, introduced and taken for granted by the Writer.
	 For this Melchisedek, King of Salem ( מֶלֶךְ שָׁלֵם , Genesis 14:18 . It is doubtful whether this  Salem is a short form of  Jerusalem , or some other place. Epiphan. Hær. Leviticus 2:0 , vol. i. p. 469, says, περὶ ἧς ἄλλος ἄλλως ἐξέδωκε καὶ ἄλλος ἄλλως · οἱ μὲν γὰρ λέγουσιν αὐτὴν τὴν νῦν Ἱερουσαλὴμ καλουμένην , ἄλλοι δὲ ἔφασαν ἄλλην τινὰ Σαλὴμ εἶναι ἐν τῷ πεδίῳ Σικίμων καταντικρὺς τῆς νυνὶ Νεαπόλεως καλουμένης . Josephus, Antt. i. 10. 2, understands it of Jerusalem: ὁ τῆς Σόλυμα πόλεως βασιλεὺς Μ … τῆν μέντοι Σόλυμα ὕστερον ἐκάλεσαν Ἱεροσόλυμα . So also the Targumists and most of the Fathers, from Theophilus ad Autolicum ii. 31, p. 372, and Greek expositors (e. g. Œc., οἴεσθαι δὲ χρὴ ὅτι καὶ Σαλὴμ ἐκείνης ἐτύγχανε βασιλεύς , ἥτις ἐστὶν Ἱερουσαλήμ ): and most modern Commentators: among them being Grot., Drusius, Michaelis, Kuinoel, Gesenius, Hitzig on Isaiah 1:1 , Von Raumer, Winer (Realw.), Lünemann, Delitzsch, al. But many others, as Primasius, Jac. Cappell., Whitby, Cellarius, Reland, Rosenmüller, Bleek, Ewald, al., contend that Jerusalem cannot be meant, because Jebus, and not Salem, was its old name, and Salem for Jerusalem occurs only in Psalms 76:2 , a song of late date (entitled in the LXX, who however render the word by εἰρήνη , ᾠδὴ πρὸς τὸν Ἀσσύριον ), and there as a poetical form, for the rhythm’s sake. A prose writer of the primitive date of Genesis would not be likely to use such a form. They therefore suppose that this Salem was that mentioned Joh 3:23 as near to Ænon, where John baptized: probably also in Genesis 33:18 , where LXX, vulg., and E. V. all recognize שלם as the name of a place, though the Targumists, Josephus, al. regard it as an adjective. The same place seems to be mentioned in Jdt 4:4 , τὸν αὐλῶνα Σαλήμ . And for this view, there is very ancient and weighty authority. Jerome, Ep. 73 (126), ad Evagr., vol. i. p. 445, says that he had learned “ex eruditissimis gentis illius, Salem non, ut Josephus et nostri omnes arbitrantur, esse Hierusalem nomen … sed oppidum juxta Seythopolim, quod usque hodie appellatur Salem.” And he goes on to say, “et ostenditur ibi palatium Melchisedec ex magnitudine ruinarum veteris operis ostendens magnitudinem.” And Bleek, from whom this notice is mainly taken, argues with some probability that the Writer of our Epistle can hardly have thought of Jerusalem as indicated by Salem, or he would have pressed, not merely the etymology of the name, but all those sacerdotal associations which belonged to the holy city. Similarly Philo, Legg. Alleg. iii. 25, vol. i. p. 102 ( βασιλέα τε τῆς εἰρήνης , Σαλήμ , τοῦτο γὰρ εἰρηνεύεται ), though elsewhere (De Somn. ii. 38, p. 691) he urges the sanctity of Jerusalem, and its etymological significance as ὅρασις εἰρήνης . And this latter view seems to me the more probable. As to the further question, whether Σαλήμ is here, or by Philo, meant  as the name of a place at all , see on Heb 7:2 ),  priest of God the most high (so Genesis l. c., כֹּהֵן לְאֵל עֶלְיוֹן . The appellation, here and in the O. T., belongs to the true and only God: cf. Genesis 14:19 ; Genesis 14:22 , where in this same history both Melchisedek and Abraham speak of “the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth.” Philo, in explaining this same office, Legg. Alleg. iii. § 26, p. 103, says, θεοῦ γὰρ ὑψίστου ἐστὶν ἱερεύς , οὐχ ὅτι ἐστί τις ἄλλος οὐχ ὕψιστος · ὁ γὰρ θεός , εἶς ὤν , “ ἐν τῷ οὐρανῷ ἄνω ἐστὶ καὶ ἐπὶ γῆς κάτω , καὶ οὐκ ἔστιν ἔτι πλὴν αὐτοῦ .” ἀλλὰ τῷ μὴ ταπεινῶς κ . χαμαιζήλως , ὑπερμεγέθως δὲ κ . ὑπεραΰλως κ . ὑψηλῶς νοεῖν περὶ θεοῦ , ἔμφασιν τοῦ ὑψίστου κινεῖ . From the above passages it will appear, that the fact of the Phœnicians in their polytheism having had one god called עֶלְיוֹן , Elion, or ὕψιστος , see Bl., De Wette: Philo Byblius in Euseb. Præpar. Ev. i. 10, p. 36, cannot be any further apposite here, than in so far as that one may have been the true God, whose worship still lingered up and down in heathen countries. The union of the kingly and priestly offices in one belonged to the simplicity of patriarchal times, and is found in Abraham himself, who offers sacrifice: cf. Genesis 15, 22. Bleek cites Serv. ad Æn. iii. 80, “Sane majorum hæc erat consuetudo, ut rex etiam esset sacerdos vel pontifex:” and Arist. Pol. iii. 14, says of the heroic age, στρατηγὸς ἦν κ . δικαστὴς ὁ βασιλεὺς κ . τῶν πρὸς τοὺς θεοὺς κύριος . Remember the prophetic announcement Zechariah 6:13 , so familiar to every Christian. Our beloved Saviour, as the πατὴρ μέλλοντος αίώνος , restores again that first blessed family relation, which sin had disturbed),  who met ( ὁ συναντ . would be by far the simpler construction, and in  ὃς συν  . we must assume an anacoluthon. It is curious to find, even in De Wette, such a remark as this: “ ὁς , Lachm. after ADE 2 minuscc., requires no notice, as it mars the construction”)  Abraham (it was, as the narrative in Gen. literally stands, the king of Sodom, who ἐξῆλθεν εἰς συνάντησιν to Abraham: but Melchisedek is mentioned in the same sentence as having brought forth bread and wine, and must be included in the category of those who came out to meet him also)  returning from the defeat of the kings (all this from the LXX, which only differs in having, κοπῆς τοῦ Χοδολλογομὸρ καὶ τῶν βας . τῶν μετ ʼ αὐτοῦ .  κοπή in this sense is Hellenistic, as also is κόπτειν used of ‘defeating,’ ‘cutting up’ in war. See Palm and Rost’s Lex.)  and blessed him (Gen. Hebrews 7:19 ; see the argument below, Heb 7:6-7 ),  to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth of all (Gen.: καὶ ἔδωκεν αὐτῷ Ἄβραμ (om. Ἄβρ . Α ) δεκάτην ἀπὸ πάντων : “  of all ,” viz. the booty which he had taken from the kings: so Jos. Antt. i. 10. 2, τὴν δεκάτην τῆς λείας : and Heb 7:4 below. In the narrative, the whole has the solemnity of a formal act; of sacerdotal blessing on the part of Melchisedek, and recognition of him as High Priest of God on the part of Abraham. And so the Jews: the Targum of Pseudo-Jonathan, as cited in Bleek, and Philo, de Abr. § 40, vol. ii. p. 34, ὁ μέγας ἀρχιερεὺς τοῦ μεγίστου θεοῦ … τὰ ἐπινίκια ἔθυε . The custom of setting apart the tenth to divine uses, was heathen as well as Jewish: see numerous examples in Wetstein.
	So far (see the summary above) is purely historical: now follow the inductions from the history: as Chrys., θεὶς τὴν διήγησιν πᾶσαν ἐν συντόμῳ μυστικῶς αὐτὴν ἐθεώρηκε καὶ πρῶτον μὲν ἀπὸ τοῦ ὀνόματος ),  first indeed being interpreted (i. e. as E. V., “  being by interpretation :” his name bearing this meaning when translated into Greek)  king of righteousness ( מַלְכִּי־עֶדֶק . So also Josephus, Antt. i. 10. 2, Μελχισεδέκης , σημαίνει δὲ τοῦτο βασιλεὺς δίκαιος . And again, B. J. vi. 10, ὁ δὲ πρῶτος κτίσας ( Ἱεροσόλυμα ) ἦν Χαναναίων δυνάστης , ὁ τῇ πατρίῳ γλώσσῃ κληθεὶς βασιλεὺς δίκαιος · ἦν γὰρ δὴ τοιοῦτος . And Philo, Leg. Alleg. iii. 25, vol. i. p. 103. Bleek remarks, that βασιλ .  δικαιοσύνης not only comes nearer to the Semitic form, but is no doubt purposely chosen, inasmuch as Melchisedek is a prophetic symbol of Him who is not only righteous, but the fount and ground of all righteousness before God. Zechariah 9:9 ; Isaiah 9:7 ; Jeremiah 23:5-6 ; Daniel 9:24 ; Malachi 4:2 ; 1Co 1:30 ),  and next also (‘  being ,’ not ‘  being interpreted ,’ must be supplied. This is plain from the position of ἑρμηνευόμενος after πρῶτον , and from βας . Σαλήμ representing a matter of fact, and the interpretation following)  King of Salem, which is, King of peace (it has been much disputed, whether  Σαλήμ is regarded by the Writer as the name of a town at all, and is not rather a portion of the personal appellation of Melchisedek. This latter has been held by Bleek, after Böhme, and Pet. Cunæus de Rep. Hebræorum, iii. 3, mainly from the consideration that no distinction here is made between the two expressions, ‘King of righteousness,’ and ‘King of peace.’ But, as Bl. himself confesses, we may well imagine that the Writer may wish to point out as a remarkable fact, that the city over which Melchisedek reigned, as well as his own name, was of typical significance; and in that case, does not  ἔπειτα δὲ καί draw sufficient distinction between his personal appellation and that of his city?
	As regards the word itself, it appears that שָׁלֵם is the adjective, peaceful, belonging to the substantive שָׁלוֹם , peace. But Philo takes it as here, Legg. Alleg. iii. 25, vol. i. pp. 102 f., καὶ Μελχισεδὲκ βασιλέα τε τῆς εἰρήνης , Σαλήμ , τοῦτο γὰρ ἑρμηνεύεται , ἱερέα ἑαυτοῦ πεποίηκεν ὁ θεὸς .… καλείσθω οὖν ὁ μὲν τύραννος ἄρχων πολέμου , ὁ δὲ βασιλεὺς ἡγεμὼν εἰρήνης , Σαλήμ . ‘  Peace ’ is here used in that pregnant and blessed sense in which Christ is said to be “Prince of peace,” Isaiah 9:6 ; see also Romans 5:1 ; Ephesians 2:14-15 ; Ephesians 2:17 ; Colossians 1:20 ; οὗτος γὰρ ἡμᾶς δικαίους ἐποίησε , καὶ εἰρηνοποίησε τὰ ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς καὶ τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς . Chrys. It is peace as the fruit of righteousness, cf. Isaiah 32:17 ; notice the order here,  πρῶτον .… βας .  δικαιοσύνης  ,   ἔπειτα δὲ καὶ  εἰνήνης . “Righteousness and peace,” says Delitzsch, “form in O. T. prophecy, the characteristic of the times of the Messiah”),  without father, without mother, without genealogy (it is very difficult to assign the true meaning to these predicates. The latter of them seems indeed to represent a simple matter of fact: viz. that Melchisedek  has not in Genesis any genealogy recorded , by which his descent is shewn (see below). But as to the two former, it cannot well be denied that, while they also may bear a similar sense, viz. that no father and mother of his are recorded in the sacred narrative, it is very possible on the other hand to feel that the Writer would hardly have introduced them so solemnly, hardly have followed them up by such a clause as μήτε ἀρχὴν ἡμερῶν μήτε ζωῆς τέλος ἔχων , unless he had coupled with them far higher ideas than the former supposition implies. I confess this feeling to be present in my own mind: indeed I feel, that such solemn words as μήτε ἀρχὴν κ . τ . λ . seem to me to decide against that other supposition. So far I think all is clear: but when we come to enquire,  what high and mysterious eminence is here allotted to Melchisedek, I own I have no data whereon to decide: nor, I think, is a decision required of us. The Writer assigns to him this mysterious and insulated position, simply as a type of Christ: and this type he is merely by virtue of negations, as far as these epithets are concerned: in what he was  not , he surpasses earthly priests, and represents Christ: what he  was , is not in the record. I would regard the epithets then as designedly used in this mysterious way, and meant to represent to us, that Melchisedek was a person differing from common men. It remains to give, 1. an account of each word used: 2. a summary of the opinions respecting the passage. 1.  ἀπάτωρ  ,   ἀμήτωρ occur in two senses: α . of those who  have lost father or  mother : so Pollux, Onomast. iii. 2. 4: see Herod. iv. 154: Soph. Trach. 300: Eur. Orest. 304: Herc. Fur. 114 f. This clearly has no place here. β . Of those who, with whatever meaning, can be said  not to have had father or  mother : whether it be meant  literally , as where Plato, Symp. 8, calls the heavenly Aphrodite ἀμήτωρ , Οὐρανοῦ θυγάτηρ : so Δίας ἀμάτορος Παλλάδος , Eur. Phœn. 676: and in Pollux, ὁ μὴ ἔχων μητέρα ἀμήτωρ , ὥσπερ ἡ Ἀθηνᾶ , καὶ ἀπάτωρ ὁ μὴ ἔχων πατέρα , ὡς Ἥφαιστος (according to a legend that he was the son of Juno alone): see many other examples in Bleek: or  improperly , one whose father or mother is unknown, or ignoble so Ion, Eur. Ion 850, is said to be ἀμήτωρ , ἀναρίθμητος , as being supposed to be the son of a humble slave: and in Horace’s “viros nullis majoribus ortos,” Sat. i. 6.10: Cic. de Orat. ii. 64, “quibus nec mater nec pater, tanta confidentia estis?” (Bl. observes that neither the “patre nullo” of Livy iv. 3, nor the ὡς ἀμήτωρ ἀπάτωρ τε γεγώς of Ion 109 can be adduced here, because in the former case there was a myth according to which the word might be literally used of Servius Tullius, and in the latter the ὡς deprives the words of their true meaning. Delitzsch has quoted ἀμήτωρ as used of Sarah by Philo, de Ebriet. 14, vol. i. 365 f.: Quis Rer. Div. Hær. 12, p. 481, “quoniam ejus mater in sacris literis non memoratur” (Mangey): but this is not correct, for in both places Philo states the reason to be a mystical one, because she was related to Abraham by the father’s, not by the mother’s side.)  ἀγενεαλόγητος occurs only here in all Greek literature. It can only mean, ‘  without genealogy .’ But this has been variously understood. Corn. a-Lapide says, “Per genealogiam accipe prosapiam non tam parentum quam filiorum Melchisedech: nam de patre et matre ejus jam dixerat.” “Dicet aliquis,” says Estius, “Quorsum addidit, ‘sine genealogia,’ cum jam dixisset ‘sine patre, sine matre:’ quæ pars genealogiam satis videbatur exclusisse. Responderi potest, ea parte removeri genus, a quo Melchisedech descendit, id est, majores, non autem genus cujus ipse princeps fuit, id est, posteros ac nepotes. Proinde hujus generis gratia additum esse: ‘sine genealogia.’ Nam utroque modo  genus accipi constat, etiam apud Græcos, ut et  generationem apud Hebræos. Unde est illud Genesis 5:0 , ‘Hic est liber generationis Adam,’ et cap. x., ‘Hæ generationes filiorum Noë,’ et cap. xi., ‘Hæ generationes Tharæ,’ cum posteros eorum vellet recensere. Sic quidem Hieronymus hanc partem intellexit, quando cam interpretatur,  sine nuptiis , lib. i. contra Jovinianum. Per nuptias enim genus in posteros propagatur. Unde et Martyr Ignatius in Epistola ad Philadelphios Melchisedech recenset inter sanctos qui cœlibem vitam duxerunt.” But this, which would be at the best but a doubtful deduction from the use of “generatio,” is precluded by Hebrews 7:6 , in which ὁ μὴ γενεαλογούμενος  ἐξ αὐτῶν clearly shews that it was ancestry, and not posterity, which was in the view of the Writer. 2. In giving a summary of the exegesis of the passage, I have made free use of the abundant materials at hand in the commentary of Bleek. The circumstance that Melchisedek is here stated to be ἀφωμοιωμένος τῷ υἱῷ τοῦ θεοῦ , has led many of the older expositors to regard these epithets as belonging to Melchisedek only in so far as he is a type of the Son of God, and as properly true of Him alone, not of Melchisedek, or only in an improper sense, and a subordinate manner. So Œc., ὁ γὰρ τύπος οὐ κατὰ πάντα ἴσος ἐστὶ τῇ ἀληθείᾳ : Schol. Matth., ἀεὶ γὰρ ἡ εἰκὼν ἀμυδροτέρα τοῦ πρωτοτύπου πρὸς ἐμφέρειαν . Accordingly, they understand  ἀπάτωρ of Christ in reference to his Humanity ( ἀπάτωρ … ὡς ἄνθρωπος , ἐκ μόνης γὰρ ἐτέχθη μητρός , τῆς παρθένου φημί . Thdrt.),  ἀμήτωρ , in reference to his Divinity ( ὡς θεός , ἐκ μόνου γὰρ γεγέννηται πατρός , id.), and so also  ἀγενεαλόγητος ( οὐ γὰρ χρῄζει γενεαλογίας ὁ ἐξ ἀγεννήτου γεγεννημένος πατρός , id.). And so Chrys., Œc., Thl., Marcus Eremita de Melchisedec, § 4 (Migne, Patr. Gr. vol. lxv. p. 1121), Cosmas Indicopleustes (de Mundo v. in Galland. Bibl. Patr. xi. p. 478), Lactantius, Inst. iv. 13, vol. i. p. 482: Ambros. de Fide iii. 11 (88), vol. ii. p. 513 al. And so Corn. a-Lap., Jac. Cappell., Gerhard, Bisping, al. But, however the word  ἀπάτωρ might perhaps be conceded to be not unnaturally applied to Christ in virtue of his Humanity, the words ἀμήτωρ and ἀγενεαλόγητος lie so far off any obvious application to his Divinity, that we may safely say this view could not well have been in the Writer’s mind. See further reasons, on the words ἀφωμ . δὲ τῷ υἱ . τ . θεοῦ below, for applying these epithets to Melchisedek, and not to Christ. But  when they are so applied , we are met by two widely divergent streams of opinion, partly hinted at in the explanation of the rendering given above. The one of these regards Melchisedek as a superhuman being: the other finds nothing in this description which need point him out as any thing beyond a man. Jerome (see Ep. ad Evagr., vol. i. p. 440 ff.) had received from Evagrius an anonymous work (which in all probability was the “Quæstiones in V. et N. Test.,” by Hilarius the deacon), in which the “quæstio famosissima super Pontifice Melchisedec” was treated, and the writer tried to prove him “divinioris naturæ fuisse, nec de hominibus æstimandum: et ad extremum ausus est dicere,  Spiritum Sanctum occurrisse Abrahæ, et ipsum esse qui sub hominis figura visus sit.” This strange opinion moved Jerome “revolvere veterum libros, ut videret quid singuli dicerent.” And he found that Origen, in his 1st Hom. on Genesis (now lost), maintained him to have been  an angel , as did Didymus the follower of Origen. Then he examined Hippolytus, Eusebius of Cæsarea, and Eus. of Emesa, Apollinarius, Eustathius of Antioch, and found that all these held him to have been  a man of Canaan, King of Jerusalem, and endeavoured to prove it in different ways. He then mentions the opinion of the Jews, that Melchisedek was  Shem , the eldest son of Noah; and gives their calculation that this may well have been, for Shem survived Abraham forty years. On this he pronounces no opinion. The view, that Melchisedek was the Holy Ghost, was also entertained by Hieracas the Egyptian, and by a branch of the Theodotian heretics, founded by a younger Theodotus (Epiphan. Hær. lv. vol. i. pp. 468 ff.: Aug [34] de Hær. c. 34, vol. viii.), and called Melchisedekites: and Marcus Eremita (cir. 400), who wrote a treatise on M., mentions heretics who believed him to be ὁ θεὸς λόγος , πρὶν σαρκωθῆναι ἢ ἐκ Μαρίας γεννηθῆναι . This opinion Epiphanius, Hær. Leviticus 7:0 , mentions as held by some within the Church: and Ambrose, from his remarks, De Mysteriis ch. 8 (46), vol. ii. p. 337: De Sacram. iv. 3 (12), p. 368 f.: De Abrahamo i. 3 (16), vol. i. p. 288, seems to have held this: though, De Fide as above, he expressly states him to have been merely a holy man, a type of Christ. This last view was ever the prevalent one in the Church. Cyr.-alex., Glaphyr. ii. vol. ii. pp. 46 ff., combats the two opinions that Melchisedek was a vision of the Holy Spirit, and that he was a great angel.
	 [34]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	In later times the idea that he was the Son of God was revived by Molinæus (Vates, iv. 11 f.), by Cunæus (cited above), by Hottinger (De Decimis Judæorum, p. 15), Gaillard (M. Christus Unicus Rex Pacis, Ludg. Bat. 1686), and others. The theory that he was  Shem has found many advocates: Lyra, Cajetan, Luther (on Genesis 15:0 ), Melanchthon, Chemnitz, Gerhard, Selden (De Decimis, § 1), al. Jurieu (Histoire Crit. i. 10) believes him to have been  Ham ; Hulse (M. una cum Parente e Tenebris emergens, Lugd. Bat. 1706) and Calmet (Dissert. ii. pp. 271 f.), to have been  Enoch reappearing on earth. Bleek refers, besides the above, for the general subject, to Deyling, Observv. Sacræ p. ii. pp. 71 87 (edn. 3, Lips. 1733): Fabricii Cod. Pseudepig. O. T. pp. 311 314 (edn. 2, 1722): Calmet, Bibl. Biblioth. pt. iv., where many dissertations are mentioned. A theory which identified Melchisedek with  Job is mentioned by Wolf, Curæ Phil. in loc., and has recently been revived by Mr. Galloway, in his work, Egypt’s Record of Time),  having neither beginning of days nor end of life (these words are again taken by most Commentators to mean, that of Melchisedek, neither beginning of days nor end of life are related in Scripture. Some, e. g. Beza (as a deduction from the other: “ævi ac proinde sacerdotii”), Camero, Schlicht., Wittich, al., take  ἀρχήν for the beginning of his sacerdotal life: others as Camero, Seb. Schmidt, Limborch, Schleusner, Kuinoel, take  τέλος also for the end of his priestly life: “Nullus ante eum defunctus est sacerdotio cui ipse deinde successit.… nullus commemoratur ei successisse in sacerdotio: qua in re typus fuit Christi,” Camero. But however  ζωῆς τέλος may be legitimately thus referred, seeing that his priesthood and his life would expire together,  ἀρχὴν ἡμερῶν can hardly be understood of any thing but his  natural life , especially as following ἀπάτωρ , &c., and in the presence of the general biblical usage of αἱ ἡμέραι τινός as a man’s lifetime. Accordingly most expositors take the words in this their natural sense and interpret them as above. So Chrys. on Psalms 110:0 § 8, vol. v. p. 277, οὔτε ἀρχὴν οὖν ἡμερῶν φαίνεται ἔχων οὔτε ζωῆς τέλος ὁ Μ ., οὐ τῷ μὴ ἔχειν , ἀλλὰ τῷ μὴ γενεαλογηθῆναι · ὁ δὲ Ἰησοῦς … τῷ καθ ʼ ὅλον μὴ εἶναι ἐπ ʼ αὐτοῦ ἀρχὴν χρονικὴν μηδὲ τέλος · τὸ μὲν γὰρ ἦν σκιά , τὸ δὲ ἀλήθεια . Similarly Thdrt.: Eranistes, Dial. ii. vol. i. p. 88 f.: Cyr.-alex. Glaph. ii. p. 63: Primasius, who ends, “neque enim sub quo natus est Melchisedek legitur, neque quando mortuus est narratur, sed subito introducitur sicut et Elias.” Again however no one, I think, can help feeling that such an interpretation is in fact no worthy acceptation of these solemn words of the sacred Writer. The expressions become incomparably more natural, as Bleek says, if the Writer really meant that M. had not, as mortal men, a definite beginning and end of his life. It really would seem to me almost childish, to say thus solemnly of any whose acts were related in the O. T., but whose birth and death were not related, that  they had neither beginning of days nor end of life . Suppose e. g. such a thing were said of Hobab, father-in-law of Moses. Here again Delitzsch, who takes strongly the other view, quotes from Philo an expression respecting Cain which he supposes analogous: ὁ Καῒν οὐκ ἀποθανεῖται , τὸ κακίας σύμβολον , ἣν ἀεὶ δεῖ ζῆν ἐν τῷ θνητῷ γένει παρ ʼ ἀνθρώπους . But surely it is hardly legitimate to conclude that, because Philo means only thus much, the Writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews means no more),  but (yea, rather)  likened to the Son of God (  ἀφομοιόω (reff.) is a classical word. Plato, Rep. ii. 382 D, ἀφομοιοῦντες τῇ ἀληθεῖ τὸ φεῦδες : al. in Bl. Aristot. Polit. i., τὰ εἴδη τῶν θεῶν ἑαυτοῖς ἀφομοιοῦνται οἱ ἄνθρωποι . This clause stands alone and pendent, like the preceding, and must not be taken with μένει ἱερεὺς εἰς τὸ διηνεκές , as Syr. (“sed in similitudinem filii Dei manet sacerdos in æternum:” “but in the likeness of the Son of Aloha standeth his priesthood for ever.” Etheridge’s version), Schlichting (“assimilatus filio Dei, i. e. illic ubi comparatus est cum Christo. Non enim usquam Scriptura de Melchisedeco seorsim et expresse dixit, eum manere sacerdotem in perpetuum: sed tantum in comparatione cum Christo, in illis nempe verbis de Christo positis, Tu es Sacerdos” &c.). To this there are three objections: 1. it would be extremely unnatural to say that from a text where it is said that the Son of God is a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek, Melchisedek himself derives the character of remaining a priest for ever: 2. it would be but a poor way of proving the eternal priesthood of Christ, to shew that He is a priest after the order of one who only appeared to have, but really had not, such eternal priesthood: and 3. it is clearly not in respect of  priesthood that the ἀφομοίωσις is here meant, but in respect of the foregoing predicates: for it is as to these only that the Son of God would be an archetype for Melchisedek, seeing that, in respect of priesthood, Melchisedek was chronologically prior to our Lord. So Thdrt., τούτου χάριν (in reference to the ἀΐδιος γέννησις and the ἀθάνατος φύσις of the Son of God) οὐ τὸν δεσπότην χριστὸν τῷ Μελχισεδὲκ ἀφωμοίωσεν , ἀλλὰ τὸν Μ . τῷ χριστῷ · ἐκεῖνος γὰρ τούτου τύπος , οὗτος δὲ τοῦ τύπου ἡ ἀλήθεια · ἐν μέντοι τῇ ἱερωσύνῃ , οὐ Μελχισεδὲκ μεμίμηται τὸν δεσπότην χριστόν , ἀλλ ʼ ὁ δεσπότης χριστὸς ἱερεὺς εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα κατὰ τὴν τάξιν Μελχισεδέκ , in loc.: so also Eranistes, Dial. ii. vol. i. p. 88.
	These very words shew that the Writer does not regard Melchisedek as an  appearance of the Son of God: and are so adduced by Epiphan. Hær. Leviticus 7:0 , p. 474: οὐ γάρ τις ἑαυτῷ ὅμοιος γενήσεταί ποτε . The sense is then that Melchisedek, in being ἀπάτωρ ἀμήτωρ ἀγενεαλόγητος , μήτε ἀρχὴν ἡμερῶν μήτε ζωῆς τέλος ἔχων , personally, not typically, resembles the Son of God in his personal attributes, as the Son of God subsequently in His incarnation, resembled  him in His priesthood),  remaineth priest for ever (  εἰς τὸ διηνεκές = εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα above, ch. Hebrews 6:20 ; and see reff. The expression is one which must be interpreted in each case by the context in which it occurs. Thus Sylla and Cæsar were chosen dictators εἰς τὸ διηνεκές , “dictatores perpetui,” that is,  for life : Appian, B. C. i. p. 682. But that is no reason why here, where an eternal priesthood is in question, it should mean  for life : indeed such meaning would be absurd, seeing that all were priests for life. In that case too, we should not have the present  μένει . All kinds of ways have been devised to escape the plain assertion of these words. Most Commentators have had recourse to the same as before, viz. that  no end of his priesthood is related to us in Scripture : so Œc., Thl., Cyr.-alex., Epiphan., and many moderns. Schlichting takes it, that as our Lord’s High Priesthood, which is said to be eternal, will endure to that time when the high-priestly office will cease, so Melchisedek’s priesthood is said to endure for ever, “quod et sacerdotium per longum aliquod temporis spatium egerit, et cum ipso veri Dei cultus et notitia inter homines illos extincta fuerit, ita ut sacerdotio, quod quidem vero Deo dicatum foret, nullus inter eos relictus esset locus. In æternum enim aliquid durare dicitur, quod et per longum tempus durat, et tamdiu duret quamdiu natura ipsius rei patitur. Sic David Deum so in æternum laudaturum dixit,” &c. Stier says, “He stands in Scripture as a type of an eternal priest:” but the question here is not of  type , but of  fact . Tholuck, “He remains, in so far as the type remains in the antitype, in so far as his priesthood remains in Christ,” after Primas., Haym [35] , Thos. Aq. But thus type and antitype are hopelessly confounded. Christ is to be proved to be a High Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek. Can we conceive then that the Writer, in setting forth what the order and attributes of Melchisedek are, should go back to Christ to find them? Again, to shew to what shifts interpreters have been reduced here, Jac. Cappellus, Pyle, Peirce, and Storr, actually understand ὅς before μένει , and construe, “  made like to the Son of God, who abideth ” &c. Every thing shews that which has been maintained all through this difficult passage, that the assertions are made, and this chief one is above all made, simply of Melchisedek, and they are, as matters of fact, inferred and laid down by the sacred Writer from the historic notices of him. What further inference lies from such dignity being here put on Melchisedek, is not, as I before said, for us to enquire: certainly, none which can in any way interfere with Christ’s eternal and sole priesthood, can be correct. It is one of those things in which we must not be wise above that which is written, but must take simply and trustingly the plain sense of our Bibles on a deep and mysterious subject, and leave it for the day when all shall be clear, to give us full revelation on the matter. See on the whole, Bleek’s long and interesting note, to which I must again acknowledge my obligations, and with which in the main I agree, against most expositors, and among them De Wette, Tholuck, Lünemann, Ebrard, and Delitzsch).
	 [35] Haymo,  Bp. of Halberstadt , 841 853