 5 .]  Continuation of Hebrews 7:4 ,  setting forth the reason of the  πηλίκος  . And (‘et quidem:’ the E. V. “and verily,” is rather too strong)  they of the sons of Levi who receive the priesthood (or, and perhaps more properly, ‘  they of the sons of Levi, when they receive the priesthood :’ in either case meaning the family of Aaron, not as Wolf, al., the whole tribe of Levi, which indeed was appointed by God to receive tithes, see Numbers 18:20 ; the words  οἱ ἐκ τῶν υἱῶν Λ  . will not admit of this interpretation. The Writer speaks of the custom, whereby not all the Levites, but the priests only, received tithes.  λαμβάνοντες , as frequently, ‘capessentes,’ taking as of course and right: Xen. Cyr. i. 5. 2, ὁ δὲ Κυαξάρης .… τὴν ἀρχὴν ἔλαβε τῶν Μήδων .  ἱερατείαν , the office of priest: mostly a late word, Dion. Hal., al.: but also found in Aristot. Pol. vii. 8, τὴν περὶ τοὺς θεοὺς ἐπιμέλειαν , ἣν καλοῦσιν ἱερατείαν . In Hebrews 7:11-12 ; Hebrews 7:24 , ἱερωσύνη is used in the same sense. If any distinction is to be made between the two words, it would rather seem to be the opposite of that laid down by Schulz and others: ἱερατεία seems more to denote the  service of the priest, ἱερωσύνη the  office and  power . So in Aristot. above: so Herod. iii. 142, ἱερωσύνην … αἱρεῦμαι αὐτῷ τε ἐμοὶ καὶ τοῖσι ἀπ ʼ ἐμεῦ αἰεὶ γινομένοισι , τοῦ Διὸς τ . Ἐλευθερίου , and Demosth. p. 1313. 20, προεκρίθην ἐν τοῖς εὐγενεστάτοις κληροῦσθαι τῆς ἱερωσύνης τῷ Ἡρακλεῖ )  have commandment to take tithes of (  δεκατεύω is the Greek form,  -  όω the Hellenistic. See reff.)  the people according to the law (the words  κατὰ τὸν νόμον have been joined by Seb. Schmidt, Hammond, al., to τὸν λαόν : “the (people according to law):” i. e. either God’s people, who were under the law, or those who according to the law were the λαός , in distinction from the priests and Levites, as οἱ δὲ ἱερεῖς καὶ ὁ λαός , Exodus 19:24 . But, though an article after λαόν would not be, as commonly supposed, absolutely required in such a construction (witness οἱ νεκροὶ ἐν χριστῷ , τοῖς κυρίοις κατὰ σάρκα , and the like), yet it is difficult to imagine the construction without it here. Bleek would refer the words to ἐντολὴν ἔχουσιν , justifying it by ch. Hebrews 9:19 , λαληθείσης γὰρ πάσης ἐντολῆς κατὰ τὸν νόμον ὑπὸ Μωυσέως , where however it is far better to join it with λαληθείσης . If it there belonged to πάσης ἐντολῆς , we should certainly expect either τῆς , or τῶν , κατὰ τὸν νόμον .
	The commandment referred to, on the ordinary construction of the first words of the verse would be Numbers 18:20-32 . But it seems more natural to understand those first words as I have given them in the alternative there, and then κατὰ τὸν νόμον falls into its place easily: ‘Those of the sons of Levi, when they are invested with the priesthood, receive commandment to tithe the people according to the law.’ On the ways in which the right of tithe was understood at different times, and how it became at length attached to the priesthood only, see Bleek’s note),  that is, their brethren, though come out of the loins of Abraham (the formula  ἐξέρχεσθαι ἐκ τῆς ὀσφ  . for to spring from, as an ancestor, is only Hellenistic, arising from the rendering by the LXX of the Heb. יָצָא מֵחַלְצֵי , as in reff. Compare ἐκ τῶν πλευρῶν σου , 3 Kings 8:19; ἐκ τῶν μηρῶν αὐτοῦ , Genesis 46:26 .
	The meaning is very difficult to assign. Certainly it cannot be as Bleek, after Böhme, “Abrahamidas quidem, sed fratres tamen:” for this quite reverses the τουτέστιν and καίπερ . I take this to be intended: by the first clause,  τουτέστιν τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς αὐτῶν , that the Levitical tithe right was all within the limits of one race, a privilege ‘de Abrahamide in Abrahamidem,’ and therefore less to be wondered at, and involving less difference between man and man, than the tithe right of Melchisedek over Abraham, one of different race, and indeed over all his progeny with him. Then the second clause,  καίπερ ἐξεληλυθότας ἐκ τῆς ὀσφύος Ἀβρ ., is inserted to shew the deep subjection of the ordinary Abrahamid to the Melchisedek priesthood, seeing that, notwithstanding his privilege of descent, he was subjected to his own priest, his brother, who in turn paid tithes in Abraham to Melchisedek).