 25 .]  Whence ( ἐπειδή , φησίν , ἀεὶ ζῇ )  also (as a natural consequence, something else, flowing from and accompanying the last: but with a slightly characteristic force: a new and higher thing follows. It is not easy to say whether  καί belongs to σώζειν or to δύναται . Rather, perhaps, to the whole sentence, to δύναται - σώζειν - εἰς - τὸ - π . κ . τ . λ .)  He is able to save (in its usual solemn N. T. sense, to rescue from sin and condemnation)  to the uttermost (the Syr., vulg., Chrys. ( οὐ πρὸς τὸ παρὸν μόνον φησίν , ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐκεῖ ἐν τῇ μελλούσῃ ζωῇ ), Œc., Thl., Luth., Calv., Schlicht., Grot., al. take  εἰς τὸ παντελές of  time : “He is ever able to save,” or “He is able to save for ever.” But this is not the usage of the word. Bleek has shewn by very many instances, that  completeness , not  duration , is its idea: as indeed its etymology would lead us to expect. It  may refer to time, when the context requires, as in Ælian, V. H. xii. 20, λέγει Ἡσίοδος τὴν ἀηδόνα μόνην … διὰ τέλους ἀγρυπνεῖν , τὴν δὲ χελιδόνα οὐκ εἰς τὸ παντελὲς ἀγρυπνεῖν , καὶ ταύτην δὲ ἀπολωλεκέναι τοῦ ὕπνου τὸ ἥμισυ . But even then it is  entirely, throughout , and only thus comes to mean ‘  always .’ We have εἰς τὸ π . ἀφανισθῆναι , Philo, Leg. ad Caium, § 21, vol. ii. p. 567: γηραιὸς δὲ ὢν (Isaac) κ . τὰς ὄψεις εἰς τὸ π . ἠφανισμένος , Jos. Antt. i. 18. 5: τοὺς λεπροὺς εἰς τὸ π . ἐξήλασε τῆς πόλεως , ib. iii. 2. 3, &c. &c.)  those that approach (cf. ἐγγίζομεν above, Heb 7:19 )  through Him ( διὰ τῆς εἰς αὐτὸν πίστεως , Œc., Thl. The contrast is to those, whose approach to God was through the Levitical priesthood)  to God, ever living as He does (this participial clause in fact is epexegetical of the  ὅθεν , giving the reason which is wrapt up in that conjunction)  to intercede for them (on  ἐντυγχάνειν , see reff. “As regards its usage, it is found with a dative frequently in classic Greek: but in the definite meaning of ‘  adire aliquem ’ in reference to ( περί ) a person or occasion, to approach any one interceding ( ὑπέρ ) or complaining ( κατά ), it is not found until the later Greek, Polyb., Plut., Themestius, Ælian: see Wetst. on Romans 8:26 . Here it implies the whole mediatorial work, which the exalted Saviour performs for his own with his Heavenly Father, either by reference to his past death of blood by which He has bought them for himself, or by continued intercession for them. See Romans 8:34 , below, ch. Hebrews 9:24 ; 1 John 2:1 . And cf. Philo on the mediatorial and intercessory work of the λόγος , Vita Mos. iii. 14, vol. i. p. 155: ἀναγκαῖον γὰρ ἦν τὸν ἱερωμένον τῷ τοῦ κόσμου πατρί , παρακλήτῳ χρῆσθαι τελειοτάτῳ τὴν ἀρετὴν υἱῷ , πρός τε ἀμνηστείαν ἁμαρτημάτων καὶ χορηγίαν ἀφθονωτάτων ἀγαθῶν : and 42, p. 501, ὁ δ ʼ αὐτὸς ἱκέτης μέν ἐστι τοῦ θνητοῦ κηραίνοντος ἀεὶ πρὸς τὸ ἄφθαρτον , πρεσβευτὴς δὲ τοῦ ἡγεμόνος πρὸς τὸ ὑπήκοον .” Bleek).