 8 .]  Second item of superiority , in that M.’s is an  enduring , the Levitical a  transitory priesthood.  And here indeed (  ὧδε , ‘ut res nunc se habent:’ the Levitical priesthood being still in existence in the Writer’s time: οἱ μὲν γὰρ ὧδε , τουτέστιν , ἐν τῷ νόμῳ λαμβάνοντες δεκάτας . Thl.)  men who die (  ἀποθν . first for emphasis as bringing out the point of the argument: but there is also a secondary emphasis on  ἄνθρωποι :  men , who  die . Otherwise it need not have been expressed: see below)  receive tithes (plur. as we also use the word, signifying the different sorts of tenths taken of different things):  but there ( ἐκεῖ δέ , τουτέστιν ἐν τῷ κατὰ Μελχισεδὲκ πράγματι , Thl.),  one of whom it is testified ( ἄνθρωπος is not again expressed, nor is it to be supplied. The mysterious character of Melchisedek is still before the Writer. It is hardly needful to say that  Christ cannot be meant, as Justiniani, Jac. Cappellus, Heinsius, and Pyle have imagined.
	This passive sense of  μαρτυροῦμαι (reff.) is unknown in classical Greek.
	The testimony meant is certainly that of  scripture ; probably, that in Psalms 110:4 , where an eternal priesthood, and therefore duration, is predicated of Melchisedek. So Thdrt., Bleek, al. It cannot well be, as Calv., Est., Drusius, Grot., Wolf, Bengel, Bisping, al., the mere negative fact of his death not being recorded, which would not amount to a testimony that he lives: and it is improbable that in so express a word as μαρτυρούμενος the Writer should, as Böhme, al. imagine, intend to combine both the positive testimony and the inference from the omission)  that he liveth (this clearly cannot be interpreted of the  priesthood of Melchisedek enduring, as Œc.: ἢ ἁπλούστερον δέξαι τὸ εἰρημένον , ὅτι ὁ τρόπος τῆς ἱερωσύνης τῶν μὲν Λευΐτων , ἀποθνήσκει · καὶ γὰρ ἐπαύσατο , τῆς ἀληθείας φανείσης · ὁ δὲ τοῦ Μελχισεδὲκ ζῇ · ζῇ γάρ : for what is here said is eminently personal, and that Melchisedek himself is meant, is shewn by the historical reference to the fact of his receiving tithes of Abraham. As Bleek well remarks, if ἀποθνήσκοντες applies personally to the sons of Levi, ζῇ must also apply personally to Melchisedek).