 27 .]  who hath not necessity (the ind. pres. shews, that the Writer is not setting forth the ideal of a high priest, but speaking of the actually existing attributes of our great High Priest, as He is)  day by day (not, as Schlichting, al., “ καθ ʼ ἡμέραν sc. ὡρισμένην , in anniversario illo videlicet sacrificio:” for this is inconsistent with usage: cf. κατ ʼ ἐνιαυτόν in reff. Had the  day of atonement been here pointed out, this latter expression would have been the more natural one. Nor again must the expression be weakened to mean “  sæpissime ,” “  quoties res fert ,” as Grot.: or πολλάκις , as Böhme, al.: or διὰ παντός , as De Wette: nor with Bengel may we regard it as an “  indignabunda hyperbole , innuens, nihilo plus profecisse principem sacerdotem  quotannis , stato die, offerentem, quam si cum vulgo sacerdotium quotidie obtulisset, ch. Hebrews 9:6-7 :” nor, worst of all, with Ebrard, think that the Writer looked down the course of centuries, and disregarding the intervals between, spoke of the days of atonement as “one day after another.” The true meaning is the simple one, held fast by Calov., Seb. Schmidt, Wolf, Bleek, Tholuck, Lünem., Delitzsch, al., that the allusion is to the  daily offerings of the priests, Exodus 29:38-42 ; Numbers 28:3-8 , which are spoken of as offered by the high priests, though they took part in them only on festival days (see Jos. B. J. v. 5. 7), because the high priests in fact lead and represent the whole priesthood. We have the very same inaccurate way of speaking in Philo de Spec. Legg. (de Homicidis) 23, vol. ii. p. 321, where he says, οὕτω τοῦ σύμπαντος ἔθνους συγγενὴς καὶ ἀγχιστεὺς κοινὸς ὁ ἀρχιερεύς ἐστι , πρυτανεύων μὲν τὰ δίκαια τοῖς ἀμφισβητοῦσι κατὰ τοὺς νόμους ,  εὐχάς τε καὶ θυσίας τελῶν καθ  ʼ   ἐκάστην ἡμέραν ),  as the high priests, to offer (the common word in our Epistle is προσφέρειν . But  ἀναφέρειν is purposely used here, as belonging more properly to sacrifices for sin. So in reff. James and 1 Pet., and Leviticus 4:10 ; Lev 4:31 )  sacrifices first for his own sins, then for those of the people (so Philo, speaking also of the daily sacrifices: ἀλλὰ καὶ τὰς ἐνδελεχεῖς θυσίας ὁρᾷς εἰς ἴσα διῃρημένας , ἥν τε ὑπὲρ αὑτῶν ἀνάγουσιν οἱ ἱερεῖς διὰ τῆς σεμιδάλεως , καὶ τὴν ὑπὲρ τοῦ ἔθνους , τῶν δυοῖν ἀμνῶν , οὓς ἀναφέρειν διείρηται , Quis Rer. Div. Hæres 36, vol. i. p. 497. Still it must be confessed that the application of such an idea to the daily sacrifices has no authority in the law: and it would seem probable, as Bleek suggests, that the ceremonies of the great day of atonement were throughout before the mind of the Writer, as the chief and archetypal features of the high priest’s work, but repeated in some sort in the daily sacrifices. The most probable solution of the difficulty however is that proposed by Hofmann (Schriftbeweis, ii. 1. 287) and approved by Delitzsch: that καθ ʼ ἡμέραν , from its situation, belongs not to οἱ ἀρχιερεῖς , but only to Christ: “  who has not need day by day, as the high priests had year by year ,” &c. In this, which I have seen in Delitzsch since the foregoing note was written, I find nothing forced or improbable):  for this He did (what? of necessity, by the shewing of Heb 7:26 and of ch. Hebrews 4:15 , the offering for the sins of the people only. To include in  τοῦτο the whole, ‘first for his own, then for those of the people,’ would be either to contradict these testimonies of the Writer himself, or to give some second and unnatural sense to ἁμαρτιῶν , as Schlichting, Grot., and Hammond, who regard it as importing only  weaknesses when applied to Christ. Besides, as Del. well observes, the idea of “offering himself for his own sins” would be against all sacrificial analogy, according to which the  sinless is an offering for the sinful)  once for all ( ἐφάπαξ , stronger than ἅπαξ . It is found in Lucian, Demosth. Encom. 21, and Dio Cassius: but not in classical Greek. It belongs to  ἐποίησεν , not to what follows),  when He offered (see above)  Himself (this is the first place in the Epistle where mention is made of Christ’s having offered Himself. Henceforward, it becomes more and more familiar to the reader: “once struck, the note sounds on ever louder and louder:” Del.).