 28 .]  Final bringing out of the contrast between the Aaronic priests and Christ .  For (gives the reason for the difference in the last verse)  the Law makes men (emphatic, opposed to  υἱόν below)  high priests, who have infirmity (cf. ch. Hebrews 5:2 , of the human high priest, ἐπεὶ καὶ αὐτὸς περίκειται ἀσθένειαν : and see below. The expression here involves, from the context, liability to sin, and subjection to, removal by, death. Christ had not the first, and therefore need not offer for his own sin: he was free from the second, and therefore need not repeat His sacrifice):  but the word (utterance; or, purport: cf. Hebrews 7:21 , ὁ δὲ μετὰ ὁρκωμοσίας διὰ τοῦ  λέγοντος πρὸς αὐτὸν κ . τ . λ .)  of the oath which was after the law (  τῆς μετά , not ὁ μετά (“sermo autem jurisjurandi qui post legem est,” vulg.), which ought to be marked in the E. V. by the omission of the comma after “oath.” This oath is recorded in David, i. e. subsequently to the giving of the law, and therefore as antiquating it and setting it aside. The argument is similar to that in Galatians 3:17 . Of course Erasmus’s rendering, “  supra legem ,” is out of the question) (  makes )  the Son (see on  υἱόν , not  τὸν υἱ , note on ch. Heb 1:1 ),  made perfect (in this participle, as Del. remarks, lies enwrapped the whole process of the Son’s assumption of human ἀσθένεια , and being exalted through it: for this τετελειῶσθαι was διὰ παθημάτων , ch. Hebrews 2:10 ; Hebrews 5:9 . Those priests, by their ἀσθένεια , were removed away in death, and replaced by others: He, by that ἀσθένεια which He took on Him, went out through death into glory eternal, and an unrenewable priesthood)  for evermore (these words belong simply and entirely to the participle, not as Luther,  fesst den Sohn ewig und vollkommen , and Bengel, “Resolve: filius, semel consummatus, constitutus est sacerdos in æternum.” The E. V. has obliterated both sense, and analogy with ch. Heb 2:10 and Hebrews 5:9 , by rendering  τετελ  . , “  consecrated ”).