 20 22 .] See summary at Hebrews 7:11 .  Further proof of the superiority of the Melchisedek-priesthood of Christ  in that he was constituted in it by an oath , thus giving it a solemnity and weight which that other priesthood had not.  And inasmuch as (it was)  not without an oath (Thdrt. and some of the older Commentators (hardly Chrys.) join this clause with the former verse, and understand it to apply to the certainty of the κρείττων ἐλπίς . αὕτη ἡμᾶς προσοικειοῖ τῷ θεῷ · ὅρκος δὲ ἡμῖν βεβαιοῖ τοῦ θεοῦ τὴν ὑπόσχεσιν . Thdrt. And so Calvin, “Nihil enim lex perfecit, sed accessit introductio ad spem potiorem per quam appropinquamus Deo: atque hoc potiorem, quod non absque jurejurando res acta sit.” So Luther. The vulg., “et quantum est, non sine jurejurando,” is apparently meant as an exclamation, as indeed Primas. and Justiniani take it. But there can be little doubt that the right connexion is to take  καθ  ʼ   ὅσον as the protasis, the following,  οἱ μέν to  αἰῶνα , as a parenthesis, and  κατὰ τοσοῦτο κ . τ . λ . as the apodosis. So, distinctly, Thl. (having before said on καθ ʼ ὅσον κ . τ . λ ., ἰδοὺ ἄλλη διαφορὰ τοῦ τε νέου ἱερέως πρὸς τοὺς παλαιοὺς κ . τ . λ ., he explains κατὰ τοσοῦτο , τουτέστι , καθόσον ὤμοσεν ἀεὶ αὐτὸν ἔσεσθαι ἱερέα ). And so I believe Chrys. meant, though ordinarily quoted on the other side. He is by no means clear: and indeed the notes of his lectures on parts of this Epistle are evidently very imperfect. So almost all the modern Commentators, including Delitzsch. As regards the ellipsis here, it is variously supplied. Some fill it up out of the apodosis, διαθήκης ἔγγυος γέγονε . And this seems on the whole more natural, and more agreeable to the style of our Epistle, than to put in, as E. V. after Œc., and Bengel, Lünem., al., γέγονεν ἀρχιερεύς , or as Bleek, al., τοῦτο (viz. ἐπεισαγωγὴ κρείττονος ἐλπίδος ) γέγονεν (or γίνεται ).  ἡ ὁρκωμοσία , the swearing of an oath, is not found in classical Greek, but τὰ ὁρκωμόσια , in Plato, Phædr. p. 241 A, and Crito, p. 120 B, θύματα or ἱερεῖα being understood. Still, as Wolf remarks, ἡ ἀπωμοσία , ἡ διωμοσία , and many similar forms, are actually found),  for they, as we know (on  μὲν γάρ , see above, Heb 7:18 ),  without swearing of an oath are made priests (  εἰσὶν γεγονότες , not only for the sake of rhythm, but as more strongly marking the existence of these priests at the time of writing. The quasi-aoristic use of  γεγόνασιν is so common, that it would not convey to the reader here the meaning intended. Paulus and Klee render, “  are without an oath made priests :” Böhme, “  sunt sacerdotes, sed sine juramento (illi quidem singuli deinceps)  facti :” which would require εἰσὶν ἱερεῖς χωρὶς ὁρκ . γεγονότες . Michaelis would render it “  fuerunt , i. e.  esse desierunt :” which is against both grammar and context),  but He with swearing of an oath, by Him who saith (i. e. certainly not the Psalmist, as some (hardly Schlichting), who cannot be said to have spoken this πρὸς αὐτόν , unless indeed we take πρός in the mere secondary sense of ‘with reference to.’ In the following citation it is the words of address only to which this refers: the former part is the mere introduction to them. Not seeing this has led to the above mistake. It was God who addressed Him, God who made Him priest, God who sware unto Him)  to Him, The Lord (  κύριος , as commonly in LXX, for יְהֹוָה )  sware, and will not repent (so ref. Jer. Heb., וְלֹא יִנָּחֵם : i. e. the decree stands fast, and shall undergo no change).  Thou art a priest for ever (see var. readd.):  of so much (in that same proportion, viz. as the difference between the oath and no oath indicates)  better a testament (the meanings of  διαθήκη , 1. an appointment, without concurrence of a second party, of somewhat concerning that second party, of which nature is  a last will and testament ; 2. a mutual agreement in which all parties concerned consent, =  a covenant , in the proper sense, being confessed, our business here is, not, as Ebrard absurdly maintains, to enquire what is the fixed theological acceptance of the word, and so to render it here, irrespective of any subsequent usage by our Writer himself; but to enquire, 1. how he uses it in this Epistle, 2. whether he is likely to have used it in more than one sense: and to render accordingly. Now it cannot well be doubted, that in ch. Hebrews 9:16-17 , he does use it in the sense of “  testament .” And just as little can it be questioned, that he is speaking there of the same thing as here; that the καινὴ διαθήκη there answers to the κρείττων διαθήκη here, this first mention of it being in fact preparatory to that fuller treatment. I therefore keep here to the E. V., which Bleek also approves in spite of Ebrard’s strong but silly dictum, that every passage is to be interpreted as a reader would understand it who had never read any further)  also hath Jesus become surety (  ἔγγυος , see reff., occurs in the Apocrypha, and in the later classics, e. g. Xen. Vectig. iv. 20, τῷ δημοσίῳ ἐστὶ λαβεῖν ἐγγύους παρὰ τῶν μισθουμένων , and Polyb. in reff.: but the form ἐγγυντής is much more common. Bl. remarks that Moeris’s notice is wrong, ἔγγυον Ἀττικῶς , ἐγγυητὴν Ἑλληνικῶς . “Jesus is become the surety of the better covenant, i. e. in His person security and certainty is given to men, that a better covenant is made and sanctioned by God. For Christ, the Son of God, became man, to publish this covenant on earth, has sealed it with His sufferings and death, and by His resurrection from the dead was declared with power to be sent by God as the Founder of such a Covenant.” Lünemann. This seems better, considering the context, in which our hope mainly, and not at present Christ’s satisfaction, is in question, than to bring in, as Calov., al., that satisfaction, or to regard His suretyship (Limborch, Baumgarten, al.) as meaning His mediatorship (see ch. Hebrews 8:6 , where He is described as κρείττονος διαθήκης μεσίτης ) seen from both sides that He is God’s surety for man and man’s surety for God. Ἰησοῦς is emphatically placed at the end: cf. John 19:0 ult.).