 11 .]  If again (this seems the nearest English expression to εἰ μὲν οὖν . It takes up the reasoning, not from the point immediately preceding, but from the main line of argument, of which what has just preceded has been merely a co-ordinate illustration. So that it is not necessary to say here, as some have attempted to do, from what point in the preceding chapters the reasoning is resumed. The main line of thought is again referred to, dependently on the promise of Psalms 110:4 , as made to our Lord and verified in Him)  perfection (in the widest sense:  the bringing of man to his highest state , viz, that of salvation and sanctification: see on Hebrews 7:19 , οὐδὲν ἐτελείωσεν ὁ νόμος . Commentators have too much limited it: Grot. understands  perfection of priesthood (“quod in genere sacerdotii perfectissimum est”): Primasius and Beza,  moral perfection : Estius, Schlichting, al.,  perfect remission of sins . But manifestly these two latter are included in the idea, which is a far more extensive one than either)  were (  ἦν may be rendered either by the imperf. subj. or pluperf. subj. The former, ‘  if perfection were ,’ would imply ‘  it is not :’ the latter, ‘  if perfection had been ,’ would imply, ‘  it was not .’ The difficulty of deciding here arises from the apodosis being given in an elliptic form, viz. in that of a question in which the verb is left out)  by means of (could be brought about by the instrumentality of)  the Levitical priesthood (on  ἱερωσύνη , see note, Heb 7:5 ),  for upon it (i. e. τῆς Λευϊτικῆς ἱερωσύνης : not as, reading ἐπ ʼ αὐτῇ , many Commentators, τελειώσει ,  for the sake of obtaining perfection . Three meanings are legitimate  for  ἐπ  ʼ   αὐτῆς . 1.  Concerning it , it being the objective basis or substratum of the νομοθέτησις : as in οὐλέγει .… ὡς ἐπὶ πολλῶν , Galatians 3:16 ; σημεῖα ἃ ἐποίει ἐπὶ τῶν ἀσθενούντων , John 6:2 . This is taken by Schlichting, Grot., Bleek. So ‘disserere’ or ‘scribere  super se.’ 2.  In its time , as ἐπ ʼ Ὀλυμπιάδος , ἐπ ʼ ἄρχοντος . 3.  On its ground , it being the subjective basis or substratum of the νομοθέτησις : it being presupposed, and the law-giving proceeding on it as ex concesso. This is taken with slight variations, by De Wette, Lünemann, Ebrard, al. And this seems most agreeable to the sense. For (1) would seem hardly to account for the insertion of the parenthesis at all: that the law was enacted  concerning the priesthood, would certainly be no reason for here introducing it: still less would the  form of the parenthesis thus be accounted for,  ὁ λαὸς γὰρ ἐπ ʼ αὐτῆς νενομ ., see below: and (2) again, being a mere notice of date, would not account for the occurrence of the parenthesis. But it we consider the priesthood as the basis on which the law was constructed, so that not the priests only, but the  people also (cf. the same παντὶ τῷ λαῷ , πάντα τὸν λαόν , in ch. Heb 9:19 ) were involved in the question of the dignity and finality of the priesthood, then a sufficient reason seems to be gained for inserting the parenthesis: q. d. not only they, but the whole system of which the priesthood was the basis and centre)  the people (emphatic: not ἐπ ʼ αὐτῆς γὰρ ὁ λαός , but ὁ λαὸς γὰρ ἐπ ʼ αὐτῆς : see above)  hath received the law (the verb  νομοθετεῖν is common both in classical and Hellenistic Greek. It is used sometimes with a dative of the person, so Xen. Revelation 15:0 , περὶ Λυκούργου τοῦ Λακεδαιμονίοις νομοθετήσαντος , sometimes with an accus. of the thing, so Xen. Rep. Laced. Hebrews 7:1 , ἃ μὲν οὖν ἑκάστῃ ἡλικίᾳ ἐνομοθέτησεν ὁ Λυκοῦργος . The use of the passive hence is obvious: and although not justified by Greek usage, finds a parallel in such expressions as πιστεύομαί τι , εὐαγγελίζομαι , &c.: see Winer, § 39. 1, edn. 6. The LXX use the word rather differently, for  to teach : e. g. Psalms 24:8 , νομοθετήσει ἁμαρτάνοντας ἐν ὁδῷ , Hebrews 7:12 , νομοθετήσει αὐτῷ ἐν ὁδῷ : Ps. 118:33, νομοθέτησόν με κύριε τὴν ὁδὸν τῶν δικαιωμάτων σου . The perfect is used, as indicating the fact that the people was still remaining and observing the law),  what further need (  was there ) (what need  after that ,  any longer , that being so: so Sext. Empir. cited by Wetst.: εἰ δὲ ἅπαξ ἐξ ὑποθέσεως λαμβάνεταί τινα , καί ἐστι πιστά , τίς ἔτι χρεία ἀποδεικνύναι αὐτά ;)  that a different priest (  ἕτερον , more than ἄλλον not only another, but of a different kind)  should arise (Herod. iii. 66, Σμέρδιν … βασιλέα ἀνεστεῶτα . See reff. There is no idea in it of suddenness or unexpectedness, as Böhme (not Tholuck in his last edn.)),  after the order of Melchisedek, and that he (the priest that should arise)  is said to be not after the order of Aaron (there have been various views as to the construction. Some, as Faber Stap., Luther, al., take the whole as one sentence only, thus: τίς ἔτι χρεία λέγεσθαι κατὰ τ . τάξ . Μ . ἕτ . ἀνίστ . ἱερέα , κ . οὐ κατὰ τ . τάξ . Ἀαρ ., “  what further need was there for it to be said that another priest should arise, after Melchisedek’s, and not after Aaron’s order? ” But thus we should have expected  ἀνίστ  . to be  future (this perhaps is not decisive, but notwithstanding Tholuck’s protest against Bleek, I cannot help still believing it would have been so): besides that the transposition of the infinitives is very harsh (Tholuck tries to justify this by ὅσῳ … τοσούτῳ τὸ τί χρὴ ποιεῖν συμβουλεῦσαι χαλεπώτερον εἶναι , Demosth. p. 66. But the case is not parallel, inasmuch as there is no ambiguity in it). Besides which,  ἕτερα can hardly have any other meaning than that in Hebrews 7:15 , not = ἄλλος , but implying diversity of nature and order: in which case it cannot be the subject to  λέγεσθαι , which has  κατὰ τὴν τάξιν Ἀαρών for its predicate, thus nullifying the ἕτερον . So that we must either take  λέγεσθαι impersonal, ‘  that it is said ,’ or, which is preferable, supply as above, ‘  that he (the coming priest)  is said .’  οὐ would more naturally be μή , in a sentence expressing necessity, which of itself involves a judgment, see Hartung, Partikell. ii. 125. But in such cases οὐ may stand where the denial is carried in the particle itself, which seems to bring out a negative expression as set over against a positive one: e. g. Aristoph. Eccles. 581, ἀλλ ʼ οὐ μέλλειν ἀλλ ʼ ἅπτεσθαι καὶ δὴ χρὴ τὰς διανοίας : Thuc. i. 51, ὑποτοπήσαντες ἀπ ʼ Ἀθηνῶν εἶναι  οὐχ ὅσας ἑώρων ἀλλὰ  πλείους . So here the οὐ must be closely joined with κατὰ τὴν τάξιν Ἀαρ ., not with λέγεσθαι : or we must with Bleek suppose that χρεία ἦν or ἠδύνατο is to be supplied with οὐ )?