John 8:12.  Again therefore Jesus spake unto them, saying, I am the light of the world.  The last thirteen verses (chap. John 7:49-52) have been occupied with an account of the impression made by our Lord’s words of promise (chap. John 7:37-38). This verse really follows chap. John 7:38, containing a second manifestation of Jesus, in a form and manner still connected with the feast which had just ended. As the pouring out of the water had furnished occasion for the promise of the living water, so the imagery of this verse was probably suggested by the illumination of the temple-courts on the evenings of the festival. This illumination proceeded from four great candelabra erected in the court of the women, and of its brilliancy the Rabbis speak in the highest strains. It formed indeed so marked a feature of the week’s rejoicings, that no one can be surprised to find a reference to it in our Lord’s words. Like the water poured on the altar, the light may well have had a twofold symbolism, commemorating the mighty guidance of Israel by the pillar of fire, and also prefiguring the light which was to spring up in the times of Messiah (Isaiah 9:2; Isaiah 13:6, etc.). What the pillar of fire had been to Israel in the wilderness, that would Messiah be to His people in the latter days.
	 He that followeth me shall in no wise walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life.  The words ‘he that followeth me’ are in all probability closely connected with the figure of the first clause of the verse. Around is ‘the darkness’ of night: only where the pillar of fire moves light shines on all that follow its course, on all, not on Israel only, for Jesus is ‘the light of th e  world.’ The language of both promises is free from every limitation save that which is expressed in ‘coming to’ Him, ‘believing in’ Him (chap. John 7:37-38), and ‘following’ Him. The special condition mentioned in this verse (when we pass from the associations of the original figure to the practical application of the words) brings out the idea of discipleship and imitation. This includes coming and ‘believing.’ No true disciple shall walk in the darkness, but shall have as his own inward possession (comp. chap. John 7:38) the light of life, the light which life gives. Living in Christ, he shall have the light of Christ (see chap. John 1:4). Darkness bears with it the ideas of ignorance, danger, and sin: light implies knowledge, guidance, safety, and holy purity (chap. Joh 12:35 ; 1 Thessalonians 5:4; 1 John 1:5, etc.).