 5 .]  Application of the comparison .  Thus also the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things (  μεγάλα αὐχεῖ (or μεγαλαυχεῖ ) is interpreted by Œc., μεγάλα ἐργάζεται , and so Thl., Calv., De Wette, al., in the Homeric sense of εὔχεται εἶναι . But Huther well observes that there is no need for thus forcing the word out of its ordinary meaning, for the  deeds of the tongue follow. This μεγάλα αὐχεῖ is the method which it uses to accomplish its deed; it vaunts great words which bring about great acts of mischief).  Behold, how small (  ἡλίκος is ‘quantulus’ as well as ‘quantus,’ e. g. in Lucian, Hermot. 5, παπαί , ὦ Ἑρμότιμε , ἡλίκους ἡμᾶς ἀποφαίνεις , οὐδὲ κατὰ τοὺς πυγμαίους ἐκείνους , ἀλλὰ χαμαιπετεῖς παντάπασιν ἐν χρῷ τῆς γῆς . De Wette however understands it here “how great,” and thinks that not the smallness of the first spark, but the greatness of the fire in its ultimate extent, is intended. Against this, as Wiesinger and Huther observe, is  ἀνάπτει , which can hardly mean ‘consumes,’ but must be said of the first lighting up. Seneca has the very similar words, “quam lenibus initiis quanta incendia oriantur,” Contr. Jam 3:5 )  a fire kindleth how great a forest (  ὕλη is taken by some Commentators to mean “materia, lignorum congeries,” as in ref. Sir. So Jerome on Isaiah 66:15-16 , vol. iv. p. 813, “Parvus ignis quam grandem succendit materiam:” Erasm., Grot., al. But the ordinary meaning gives a far livelier and more graphic sense here. Cf. also Hom. Il. β . 455, ἠΰτε πῦρ ἀΐδηλον ἐπιφλέγει ἄσπετον ὕλην , and λ . 155, ὡς δ ʼ ὅτε πῦρ ἀΐδηλον ἐν ἀξύλῳ ἐμπέσῃ ὕλῃ . The comparison is beautifully used in a good sense by Philo, De Migr. Abr. § 21, vol. i. p. 455, σπινθὴρ γὰρ καὶ ὁ βραχύτατος ἐντυφόμενος ὅταν καταπνευσθεὶς ζωπυρηθῇ , μεγάλην ἐξάπτει πυράν · καὶ τὸ βραχύτατον οὖν ἀρετῆς , ὅταν ἐλπίσι χρησταῖς ὑποθαλπόμενον ἀναλάμψῃ , καὶ τὰ τέως μεμυκότα καὶ τυφλὰ ἐξωμμάτωσε , καὶ τὰ ἀφαυανθέντα ἀναβλαστεῖν ἐποίησε , καὶ ὅσα ὑπὸ ἀγονίας ἐστείρωτο εἰς εὐφορίαν εὐτοκίας περιήγαγεν [Tischdf. in his 8th edn., omitting with [10] 1 the καί in James 3:6 , carries on the sentence to ἡ γλῶσσα , construing ἡλίκον πῦρ as an accusative, and ἡλίκην ὕλην as in apposition with it]).
	 [10] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .