 17 .]  But (contrast)  the wisdom from above is first of all pure (“Ad duplex genus qualitas revocatur: altero interna vis uno vocabulo exprimitur, quippe una ipsa cæterarumque effectrix, altero externæ rationes sex notationibus describuntur, quæ ad primarium scriptoris consilium invidiæ rixisque occurrendi omnes redeunt.” Theile. ἁγνή , καθαρὰ καὶ ἀρύπαρος , μηδενὸς τῶν σαρκικῶν ἀντεχομένη , Œc. It is hardly necessary to guard any scholar against the abuse of this text often found, when it is made to signify that the heavenly-wise must be pure, i. e. free from all contact with any thing that offends,  before he can be peaceable: and thus it is used to further, instead of to discourage, an uncharitable spirit),  then (= in the second place: its external qualities are now enumerated)  peaceable, forbearing ( μὴ ἀκριβοδίκαιος ἐπὶ τὸ χεῖρον , Aristot. Eth. Nic. x. 6. See note on Php 4:5 ),  easily persuaded (“suadibilis,” vulg. The word occurs in the active sense of “easily persuading,” in Æschyl. Agam. 274, πότερα δ ʼ ὀνείρων φάσματ ʼ εὐπειθῆ σέβεις : and Choeph. 259, πέμπειν ἔχοις ἂν σήματ ʼ εὐπειθῆ βροτοῖς : but not, that I am aware, in this passive sense),  full of compassion (the great triumph of the Christian practical life is won by ἔλεος : see ch. Jam 2:13 )  and good fruits (contrast to πᾶν φαῦλον πρᾶγμα above),  without doubting (as might be expected, from the various meanings of διακρίνεσθαι , this word has been variously interpreted. Luther, E. V., and most Commentators render it “  without partiality ,” unparteiisch, thus giving to a passive adjective an active meaning: and in the same spirit, Œc., μὴ διακρίνουσα παρατηρήσεις βρωμάτων κ . διαφόρων βαπτισμάτων : Beza, “  absque disceptatione :” vulg., “  non judicans :” Calvin, “Nimis anxiam et scrupulosam inquisitionem notat, qualem fere in hypocritis cernere licet, qui dum nimis exacte inquirunt in fratrum dicta et facta, nihil non in sinistram partem rapiunt:” Bengel, “Non facit discrimen ubi non opus est, v. gr., inter potentes et tenues.” The passive sense is kept by Gebser, who understands “undivided:” the heavenly-wise keeping banded together in love: Wetst., “  non duplex .” Two considerations contribute to substantiate the rendering given above, which is that of De Wette, Wiesinger, and Huther. 1. The word would seem, from its close junction with ἀνυπόκριτος , rather to betoken an inner quality than (as Gebser above) an outward circumstance: 2. when thus used of an inner quality, cf. ch. Jam 1:6 and James 2:4 , our Apostle, in common with other N. T. writers, signifies by it ‘  to doubt .’ So that I would understand by it “expers omnis cujuscunque ambiguitatis et simulationis,” as Huther),  without feigning (“These two characteristics are also added with especial reference to the state of things among the readers: on  ἀδιάκριτος , cf. ch. James 1:6-8 ; James 2:4 ; on  ἀνυπόκριτος , ch. James 1:22 ; James 1:26 ; James 2:1 .” Huther).