 6 .]  Likewise the tongue is a fire, that world of iniquity (these latter words are still in apposition with ἡ γλῶσσα (and belong appositionally to the  subject , not to πῦρ the predicate: as e. g. in Æsch. Choeph. 529 f., ἐν σπαργάνοισι παιδὸς ὁρμῆσαι δίκην , τινὸς βορᾶς χρῄζοντα , νεογενὲς δάκος ); not, as many Commentators, an elliptical clause requiring ὕλη to complete it “igni respondet lingua, materiæ seu silvæ respondet mundus improbus,” Morus, in Huther. But, when taken as a designation of ἡ γλῶσσα , the interpretations are various. 1. Œc. mentions as an alternative the signification “adornment” for κόσμος . After giving the ordinary interpretation, he says, ἢ κόσμος ἐστίν , ἤτοι κοσμοῦσα τὴν ἀνθρωπίνην φύσιν κ . τ . λ ., and before, κοσμεῖ τὴν ἀδικίαν διὰ τῆς τῶν ῥητόρων εὐγλώττου δεινότητος . And so it is taken by Wetst., Elsner, Wahl, and others. But it is rightly objected by Huther, that κόσμος never signifies that which (actively) adorns, but that wherewith a thing or person is adorned, as in 1 Peter 3:3 ; so that it would be here that  wherewith , not that  whereby , iniquity is adorned. 2. Estius makes the words mean, a world of iniquity, “quia (lingua) peccata omnigena parit.” 3. Le Clerc, Hammond, Kuinoel, al. hold the words to be spurious, and a gloss: but most absurdly. We have the similar use of ὁ κόσμος in ref. Prov., τοῦ πιστοῦ ὅλος ὁ κόσμος τῶν χρημάτων , τοῦ δὲ ἀπίστου οὐδὲ ὄβολος : and the Latins often use ‘abyssus,’ ‘mare,’ ‘oceanus,’ in the same sense [a complete repertory of all wickedness, as the world is of all things]. The use of the art. in titular appositional clauses of this kind is natural as designating the thing pointed at ‘mundus ille iniquitatis’):  the tongue (we must not, although we omit οὕτως , follow Lachmann, and Tischdf. [edn. 7], in destroying the stop at ἀδικίας and carrying the sense on to this clause: for thus we make a very lame sentence, with the subject, ἡ γλῶσσα , twice repeated. The new sentence begins here)  is (perhaps we cannot find in English a better word for  καθίσταται , though it does not give the exact meaning, which is as in vulg., “  constituitur .” Any rendering of this in English would be too forcible; as if some divine arrangement were spoken of: “collocata est” (Beza, Piscator, Schneckenburger, al.) is not exact. See reff.)  among our members that one which (De Wette compares for the construction, Philippians 2:13 , ὁ θεὸς … ἐστιν ὁ ἐνεργῶν )  defileth (ref.)  the whole body (thus justifying the title given to it of ὁ κόσμος τῆς ἀδικίας )  and setteth on fire (the other clause, καὶ ἡ γλῶσσα πῦρ , is now taken up. By the construction, strictly considered, these two participles, φλογίζουσα and φλογιζομένη , are (as Wiesinger) subordinated to ἡ σπιλοῦσα , there being no articles before them. But forasmuch as thus we should find a difficulty in the sense, in that the action indicated by the first of these participles can hardly take place within our members, it is better, with Huther, to regard the participles as new particulars, and the construction as not a strictly exact one. Something of the same inaccuracy is found in ch. James 4:11 , but not in James 4:14 , as Huther also alleges)  the orb of the creation (in interpreting the difficult words  τὸν τροχὸν τῆς γενέσεως , one thing must especially be borne in mind: that like ὅλον τὸ σῶμα , they designate some material thing which agreeably to the figure used may be set on fire. This would at once set aside all figurative explanations, such as “rotam originis nostræ, quæ, simul atque nati sumus, cursum suum auspicatur,” Gebser, al., τὸν χρόνον , τὸν τροχοείδη δηλονότι , τῆς ζωῆς , lsidor.-pelus., founded on the parallel in Anacreon (iv. 7), τροχὸς ἅρματος γὰρ οἷα βίοτος τρέχει κυλισθείς . So likewise Œc., τροχός , ὁ βίος εἰς ἑαυτὸν ἀνελιττόμενος , illustrating it by the Psalmist speaking of ὁ στέφανος τοῦ ἐνιαυτοῦ : such again as that of Wolf, “indesinens successio hominum aliorum post alios nascentium,” after the Syr., “It turneth the course of our generations which run as a wheel,” In seeking then for some material interpretation, we come first to that of Wiesinger,  the whole body  the circumference of our corporeal being , the τροχὸς τῆς γενέσεως , as the πρόσωπον τῆς γενέσεως in ch. James 1:23 ;  the circumference (of the body)  which is congenital with us . But, as Huther has observed, it would be in the highest degree unnatural, when the Writer has just expressed ὅλον τὸ σῶυα without a figure, that be should again express it  in a figure , and that without the least indication of the identity of meaning. The same objection is fatal to Bengel’s view, who also understands it of the body, but gets this meaning by an allegorical method, “Rota sive sphæra superior est ipsa nature humana rationalis: gehenna vero est pars profundior, cor: lingua in medio ex inferioribus inflammatur et superiora inflammat.” More ingenious is the idea of Beza (ed. 1598), “Jacobus mihi videtur alludere ad rapiditatem circumactæ rotæ, suo motu flammam concipientis:” and this is followed by Benson, who says, “The present life of man is here compared to a wheel, which is put in motion at our birth, and runs swiftly till death puts a stop to it. By the rapidity of its (?) motion the tongue sets this wheel in a flame, which sometimes destroys the whole machine.” Cf. Hor. Od. i. 1. 3, “metaque fervidis evitata rotis:” but it seems to lie too far from the words for us to suppose that the Apostle can have thus intended to express it. And besides, the propriety of the comparison is not satisfied: for in the case of a wheel, it is set on fire by  its own rapid motion, not by any thing without it. It appears then to me that we are driven to the rendering given above, on which Beza says (ed. 1565), “Mihi videtur minus dura explicatio, si τὸν τροχόν accipiamus ἀντὶ τοῦ κύκλου , et τῆς γενέσεως pro τῆς κτίσεως , ut significetur linguam posse vel totum orbem conditum accendere.” In favour of this, we have, that τροχός is used for “orbis” in Aristoph. Thesmoph. 17: for circular enclosures, Plato, Critias, p. 113 ff.; Soph. frag. 222 d; Schol. on Plato, Legg. iii. p. 451: see also Odyss. μ . 173; φ . 178, 183: and that γένεσις is used in the concrete sense of “creation” by Plato, Tim. p. 29 D, E ( λέγωμεν δὴ δι ʼ ἥντινα αἰτίαν γένεσιν καὶ τὸ πᾶν τόδε ὁ ξυνιστὰς ξυνέστησεν ), and by other writers. And it is remarkable also (De W.), that just below, when St. James would speak of men as created after God’s image, he uses not κτισθέντας but γεγονότας . Cf. also his use of τὸ πρόσωπον τῆς γενέσεως , before cited, in ch. James 1:23 , “the face wherewith he was created.” This sense,  the whole orb or  cycle of creation , is not, as Wiesinger affirms, “at least not favoured” by James 3:7 , but on the contrary agrees exceedingly well with it. After the mention of the τροχὸς τῆς γενέσεως , it is natural that the Apostle should take up with the γάρ the details of creation, and assert that they might all be tamed by man, but that the tongue is untameable. Again, such sense is most agreeable to the similitude just used, of a small spark kindling a vast forest. This sense is found in Syr., æth., Crusius, Cocceius, and De Wette [the expression in E.V.,  the course of nature , is sufficiently near the meaning, and expresses it in better English, perhaps, than any other]),  and itself set on fire (notice the  present , indicating that it is habitually, continually, so set on fire: see below)  by hell (which is itself γέεννα  τοῦ πυρός , ref. and al. These words are not to be explained away, as Theile, “igne fœdissimo ac funestissimo:” such is not St. James’s teaching, cf. ch. James 4:7 , where the devil, as a tempter to evil, is personally contrasted with God: but are to be literally taken. It is the devil, for whom hell is prepared, that is the tempter and instigator of the habitual sins of the tongue. It is out of the question (see above) to regard  φλογιζομένη as alluding to the original temptations of the fall: equally so, to suppose it to have a future reference, and to imply that the tongue shall be tormented in ( ὑπο ?) hell: as some in Œc., ἀλλὰ καὶ αὐτή φησι φλογίζεται ὑπὸ τῆς γεέννης , ὡς δῆλον ἀπὸ τοῦ τὴν γλώσσην ἀποτηγανιζομενου πλουσίου : so also Grot., Benson, Semler, Storr, Rosenmüller. I need hardly add, that the foolish conjectural emendation γέννης , “  a ( ὑπο ?)  nativitate ,” insisted on with much confidence in a note to an anonymous version of St. James and St. Peter (Hatchard, 1842), is quite out of the realm of, as the construing proposed on its adoption is beneath, legitimate criticism [though it can claim the support of spec ‘  a genitura ’]. Wiesinger says, “This passage reminds us, in its general sense, of the O. T. sayings, Proverbs 16:27 ; Psalms 120:2-4 ; Sir 28:11 ff.” The last clause,  καὶ φλογ  .   ὑπὸ τ  .   γ ., is strikingly paralleled by the Targum on Psalms 120:2 , where the deceitful tongue is compared “cum carbonibus juniperi, qui incensi sunt in gehenna inferne.” But none of these passages treats of the destruction which the tongue brings on its own body (cf. Wiesinger’s interp. above)).