 1 .] The more the idea prevailed, that faith, without corresponding obedience, was all that is needful, the more men would eagerly press forward to teach: as indeed the Church has found in all ages when such an opinion has become prevalent: for then teachers and preachers of their own appointing have rapidly multiplied.  Be not (‘  become not :’ let not that state of things prevail among you in which you become)  many teachers (  πολλοί belongs not to the predicate, as Schueckenb. al., so that πολλοὶ γίνεσθαι should =  multiplicari : nor does it mean “nimii in docendo,” as Baumgarten: nor = πάντες , as Grotius: but is to be taken with διδάσκαλοι , and in its proper meaning. And  διδάσκαλοι is not, as E.V., “masters,” which conveys a wrong idea: but  teachers , persons imparting knowledge in the congregation. This in the primitive times might be done by all in turn, as we know from 1 Corinthians 14:26-33 ; and St. James exhorts against the too eager and too general assumption of this privilege),  my brethren, knowing (as ye do: or, as ye ought to do: it is a good remark of Huther’s, that  εἰδότες , being closely joined to the imperative, is itself hortatory: ‘knowing, as ye might know’)  that we (i. e. as many of us as are teachers)  shall receive greater condemnation (than others who are not teachers:  κρῖμα , in the phrase κρῖμα λαμβάνειν , according to N. T. usage, is not a ‘vox media,’ but signifies  condemnation only: see besides reff. 1 Timothy 5:12 . This being so, it has surprised some Commentators, that the Apostle includes himself with those whom he is dissuading: and Grot., al. would understand κρῖμα as meaning “responsibility:” but the solution is easy, viz. that he includes himself out of humility, and obviously on the assumption that the office of teacher is not faithfully performed. The sense might be thus filled up, as, indeed, it is virtually filled up in James 3:2 ; ‘be not many teachers, for in such office there is great danger of failing, and if we teachers fail, our condemnation will be greater’).