21. that they all may be one, as
	thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they may be one in
	us—The indwelling Spirit of the Father and the Son is
	the one perfect bond of union, knitting up into a living unity, first
	all believers amongst themselves; next, this unity into one still
	higher, with the Father and the Son. (Observe, that Christ never
	mixes Himself up with His disciples as He associates Himself with the
	Father, but says I in THEM
	and THEY in US).
	that the world may believe
	that thou hast sent me—sentest me. So the grand impression upon
	the world at large, that the mission of Christ is divine, is to be
	made by the unity of His disciples. Of course, then, it must
	be something that shall be visible or perceptible to the
	world. What is it, then? Not certainly a merely formal, mechanical
	unity of ecclesiastical machinery. For as that may, and to a large
	extent does, exist in both the Western and Eastern churches, with
	little of the Spirit of Christ, yea much, much with which the Spirit
	of Christ cannot dwell so instead of convincing the world beyond
	its own pale of the divinity of the Gospel, it generates
	infidelity to a large extent within its own bosom. But the Spirit of
	Christ, illuminating, transforming, and reigning in the hearts of the
	genuine disciples of Christ, drawing them to each other as members of
	one family, and prompting them to loving co-operation for the good of
	the world—this is what, when sufficiently glowing and extended,
	shall force conviction upon the world that Christianity is divine.
	Doubtless, the more that differences among Christians disappear—the
	more they can agree even in minor matters—the impression upon the
	world may be expected to be greater. But it is not dependent
	upon this; for living and loving oneness in Christ is sometimes more
	touchingly seen even amidst and in spite of minor differences, than
	where no such differences exist to try the strength of their deeper
	unity. Yet till this living brotherhood in Christ shall show itself
	strong enough to destroy the sectarianism, selfishness, carnality,
	and apathy that eat out the heart of Christianity in all the visible
	sections of it, in vain shall we expect the world to be overawed by
	it. It is when "the Spirit shall be poured upon us from on
	high," as a Spirit of truth and love, and upon all parts of the
	Christian territory alike, melting down differences and heart
	burnings, kindling astonishment and shame at past unfruitfulness,
	drawing forth longings of catholic affection, and yearnings over a
	world lying in wickedness, embodying themselves in palpable forms and
	active measures—it is then that we may expect the effect here
	announced to be produced, and then it will be irresistible. Should
	not Christians ponder these things? Should not the same mind be in
	them which was also in Christ Jesus about this matter? Should not His
	prayer be theirs?