 5 7 .]  The oath of the strong angel, that the time of fulfilment of all prophecy was close at hand . In this portion of the vision, the reminiscences of Dan 12:7 are very frequent: καὶ ἤκουσα τοῦ ἀνδρὸς τοῦ ἐνδεδυμένου τὰ βαδδίν , ὃς ἦν ἐπάνω τοῦ ὕδατος τοῦ ποταμοῦ , καὶ ὕψωσε τὴν δεξιὰν αὐτοῦ καὶ τὴν ἀριστερὰν αὐτοῦ εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν , καὶ ὤμοσεν ἐν τῷ ζῶντι εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα , ὅτι εἰς καιρὸν καιρῶν καὶ ἥμισυ καιροῦ , ἐν τῷ συντελεσθῆναι διασκορπισμὸν γνώσονται πάντα ταῦτα .  And the angel whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the earth, lifted his right hand (not both hands, as in Daniel above, seeing that the little book lay open on his left. On the practice of lifting the hand in swearing, cf. ref. and Genesis 14:22 ( Exo 6:8 and Numbers 14:30 , marg. and LXX))  towards heaven (as God’s dwelling-place, Isa 57:15 )  and sware by (construction, see reff.)  Him that liveth to the ages of the ages (cf. Dan. above),  who created the heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it (this full and formal designation of God as Creator of all is given, because the subject of the angel’s oath is, the mystery of God, which necessarily rests in His power alone who made all things.
	We may observe, that the fact as well as the form of this oath is against the supposition, that this strong angel is the Lord Himself. Considering St. John’s own declarations respecting the Son of God, it is utterly inconceivable that he should have related as spoken  by Him an oath couched in these terms),  that time (see below)  should no longer be (i. e. should no more intervene: in allusion to the answer given to the cry of the souls of the martyrs, ch. Revelation 6:11 , καὶ ἐῤῥέθη αὐτοῖς ἵνα  ἀναπαύσωνται ἔτι χρόνον μικρόν . This whole series of trumpet-judgments has been an answer to the prayers of the saints, and now the vengeance is about to receive its entire fulfilment: χρόνος οὐκέτι ἔσται : the appointed delay is at an end. That this is the meaning is shewn by the ἀλλ ʼ ἐν τ . ἡμ . which follows. Several erroneous views have been taken of this saying: e. g., 1) that of Bed [106] “mutabilis sæcularium temporum varietas in novissima tuba cessabit,” al., and apparently the E. V. (“that there should be time no longer”) that it imports the ending of the state of time, and the beginning of eternity: 2) the  chronological one of Bengel, who allots a definite length, viz. 1111 1 / 9 years (?) to a chronus, and then interprets, “there shall not elapse a chronus:” bringing the end, on his successive-historical system, to the year 1836, which is self-refuted: 3) the view of Vitringa and Hengstenb., which grounds an error on the right understanding of these words themselves, “moram nullam temporis esse intercessuram inter clangorem septimæ tubæ et oraculorum propheticorum implementum:” for the assertion of Revelation 10:7 , which is the carrying out of this denial, expressly identifies the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, with the immediate fulfilment of all prophecy):  but ( ἀλλά is not = εἰ μή , but bears its proper meaning of strong contrast)  in the days of the voice of the seventh angel (i. e. the days indicated, in the fulfilment of the vision, by the sounding of the seventh angel’s trumpet. De W. well observes, that there is in the diction of this clause a mingling of the fulfilment with the prophecy),  when he is about to blow his trumpet (these words  ὅταν μέλλῃ are used, as in reff., in their strictest propriety. For when the seventh angel  does sound, the completed time of the fulfilment is simultaneous with his blowing: cf. ch. Revelation 11:18 ; so that it is properly said that the fulfilment comes  in the days when he is about to blow. Elliott’s version, “at what time soever he may have to sound,” can hardly be the rendering of ὅταν μέλλῃ σαλπίζειν . For 1) ὅταν will not in the LXX and N. T. bear this emphatic uncertainty, but is simply “when,” in contingent clauses: and 2) μέλλῃ , in a sentence spoken strictly of time, must be kept to its temporal signification. Of course, the E. V., “when he shall begin to sound,” is inadmissible),  then (this  καί in apodosi is in fact the token of a mixed construction: which resolved would be ἀλλ ʼ ὅτι ἥξουσιν αἱ ἡμέραι κ . τ . λ ., καὶ κ . τ . λ . So also in reff. See Winer, edn. 6, § 53. 3, f)  the mystery of God (this expression will be best understood by ref. Rom., connected as it is here with the verb εὐηγγέλισεν (see below). It is the mystery of  the kingdom , as unfolded in the course of the Gospel dispensation, as is clearly shewn by the thanksgiving after the blowing of the seventh trumpet in ch. Revelation 11:15 ff.)  is fulfilled (lit.,  was fulfilled , the speaker looking back, in prophetic anticipation, on the days spoken of, from a point when they should have become a thing past),  as He evangelized (it is impossible to give the force of εὐηγγέλισεν with the accus. by a periphrasis, without losing its force. It expresses that God  informed them of the glad tidings : it being left to be understood by their office of προφήτης , that they  published the εὐαγγέλιον . See Galatians 3:8 , where the sense, though not the construction, is much the same)  His servants the prophets .
	 [106] Bede,  the Venerable , 731; Bedegr, a Greek MS. cited by Bede, nearly identical with Cod. “E,” mentioned in this edn only when it differs from E.