 8 11 .]  The delivery of the little book to John, and announcement of a further work of prophecy to be carried on by him .  And the voice which I heard out of heaven, (I) again (heard) talking with me and saying (the sentence is a curious instance of mixed construction. One of its simple forms would be κ . ἡ φωνὴ ἣν ἤκ . ἐκ τ . οὐρ . πάλιν ἐλάλει μετ ʼ ἐμοῦ λέγονσα : the other, κ . τὴν φωνὴν ἤκουσα ἐκ τ . οὐρ . πάλ . λαλοῦσαν μετ ʼ ἐμοῦ κ . λἐγουσαν . The former member of the first of these, and the latter member of the second, are united in the text),  Go take the book which lieth open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth. And I went away (from my former place as a spectator in heaven: from which, however, the Seer docs not seem wholly to remove, cf. ch. Revelation 11:16 ; Revelation 19:1 ff., although his principal spot of observation is henceforth the earth: cf. ch. Revelation 11:1 , Revelation 14:1 , Revelation 17:3 , &c.)  to the angel telling him (the pres. part. contains the reason of the ἀπῆλθον )  to give me the little book. And he saith to me, Take and eat it up (cf. Ezekiel 3:1 ff.; Jeremiah 15:16 ; Psa 40:9 ):  and it shall embitter thy belly, but in thy mouth shall be sweet as honey. And I took the book out of the hand of the angel and ate it up: and it was in my mouth as honey, sweet; and when I had eaten it up, my belly was embittered (there is the difference between Ezekiel’s roll and this, that, in the prophet’s case, only the sweetness in the mouth is mentioned. The Angel, dwelling most on the most important thing, the working of the contents of the book, puts the bitterness first: the Evangelist, in relating what happened, follows the order of time. The text itself will guard us against some misinterpretations of this bitterness and sweetness. It is plain that we must understand these to belong, not to differing characters of different portions of the contents of the book (as Heinr., Ewald), but to different sensations of the Evangelist in different parts of his body respecting one and the same content of the book. Nor again must we invert the order, imagining (as Herder and Rinck) that the first bitterness leads afterwards to sweetness and joy, or (as Bede, Aretius, al.) that the bitterness in the belly indicates the reception by the Evangelist, but the sweetness in the mouth, the declaration to others; proceeding on a misunderstanding of Revelation 10:11 . For further particulars, see below).  And they say (  λέγουσιν leaves the speakers quite indefinite; amounting in fact to no more than “it was said”)  to me, Thou must (i. e. it is God’s will that thou shouldest: a command is laid upon thee so to do)  again prophesy (as thou hast done before in writing the former part of the ἀποκάλυψις : see in the interpretation below)  concerning (not, as E.V. “  before :” nor can  ἐπί with a dat. bear such a meaning. The substantives which follow the preposition are the  objects of the προφητεῦσαι . So in reff. See Winer, edn. 6, § 48,  c. C)  peoples and nations and languages and many kings (i. e. concerning the inhabitants of the earth, as before: cf. ch. Revelation 5:9 , where the Lamb’s worthiness to open the former βιβλίον is connected with His having redeemed ἐκ πάσης φυλῆς κ . γλώσσης κ . λαοῦ κ . ἔθνους ).
	I have postponed till this point the question, what we are to understand by the βιβλαρίδιον , and the Seer’s concern with it. And I will at once say, before discussing the various differing interpretations, that I conceive the simple acceptation of the description and symbolism here can lead but to one conclusion; viz. that it represents the μυστήριον τοῦ θεοῦ above spoken of, the subject of the remainder of the apocalyptic prophecies. So far, many of the principal Commentators are at one. Indeed it is difficult to conceive how any other interpretation can have been thought of, except as made necessary by some previous self-committal of the Expositor regarding the sealed book of ch. 5, or by the exigencies of some historical system. But within the limits of this agreed meaning, there are many different views as to the extent of the reference of the “little book” to that which follows, and as to its relation to the seven-sealed book of ch. 5. As regards these points, we may remark, 1) that the contents of the “little book” cannot well be confined to ch. Revelation 11:1-13 , or we should not have had so solemn an inauguration of it, nor so wide-reaching an announcement of the duty of the Apostle consequent on the receipt of it: 2) that the oath of the Angel must necessarily be connected with his bearing of the open book on his hand, and if so, makes it necessary to infer that the contents of the book are identical with the mystery, respecting which he swears: 3) that the episode which follows, containing the first work of the Apostle under this his new prophetic commission, inchoates an entirely new matter the things which befall the Church of God and the holy city, which new character of incidents continues to prevail until the very end of the book: 4) that the relation of this “little book” to the sealed book of ch. 5 can hardly be doubtful to the readers of this Commentary, seeing that we have maintained that book to be the sum of the divine purposes, which is not opened at all within the limits of the apocalyptic vision, but only prepared to be opened by the removal of its seven seals. That this is not that complete record of the divine purposes, nor, technically speaking, any portion of it, must be evident to us. For it forms a small detached roll or volume, lying open on the angel’s hand: it is destined for the especial individual behoof of the Seer, into whom it passes, and becomes assimilated with himself, to be given forth as he should be directed to utter it. 5) That it contained  more than we possess in the remaining portion of this book, is probable. St. John doubtless knew more than he has told us. Previously to this, he knew what the seven thunders uttered: and subsequently to this, we can hardly imagine that he was ignorant of the name of the wild beast, whose number he has given us.
	It remains that we say something on the circumstances accompanying the Apostle’s reception of the mysterious book. Its  sweetness , when he tasted it, allusive as it is to the same circumstance in Ezekiel’s eating the roll which was all lamentation, mourning, and woe, doubtless represents present satisfaction at being informed of, and admitted to know, a portion of God’s holy will: of those words of which the Psalmist said, Psalms 119:103 , “How sweet are thy words unto my taste, yea sweeter than honey unto my mouth!” But when the roll came to be not only tasted, but digested, the nature of its contents felt within the man, bitterness took the place of sweetness: the persecutions, the apostasies, the judgments, of the church and people of the Lord, saddened the spirit of the Seer, and dashed his joy at the first reception of the mystery of God.