 8 ff.] On the other hand the law has its right use: not that to which they put it, but to testify against sins in practice: the catalogue of which seems to be here introduced, on account of the lax moral practice of these very men who were, or were in danger of, falling into them: not, as Baur imagines, because they were antinomians and set aside the (moral) law. They did not set it aside, but perverted it, and practised the very sins against which it was directed.  Now (slight contrast to last verse, taking up the matter on general grounds)  we know (see ref.: especially Romans 7:14 ; a thoroughly pauline expression)  that the law is good (Romans 7:16 ; not only, as Thdrt., ὠφέλιμον , but in a far higher sense, as in Romans 7:12 ; Romans 7:14 ; good abstractedly, in accordance with the divine holiness and justice and truth; see 1 Timothy 1:18 , ch. 1Ti 4:4 )  if a man (undoubtedly, in the  first place , and mainly, a  teacher : but not (as Bengel, De W., and Ellic.) to be confined to that meaning: all that is here said might apply just as well to a private Christian’s thoughts and use of the law, as to the use of it by teachers themselves)  use it lawfully (i.e. not, as most expositors,  according to its intention as law ( ἐάν τις ἀκολουθῇ αὐτοῦ τῷ σκόπῳ , Thdrt.), and as directed against the following sins  in Christians : but clearly, from what follows, as De W. insists (see also Ellic.), and as Chrys. obscurely notices amongst other interpretations,  νομίμως  in the Gospel sense : i.e. as  not binding on , nor  relevant to Christian believers , but only  a means of awakening repentance in the ungodly and profane . Chr.’s words are: τίς δὲ αὐτῷ  νομίμως χρήσεται ;  ὁ εἰδὼς ὅτι οὐ δεῖται αὐτοῦ . His further references of νομίμως , ‘as leading us to Christ,’ as ‘inducing to piety not by its injunctions but by purer motives,’ &c., are not in place here),  being aware of this (belongs to  τις , the teacher, or former of a judgment on the matter.  εἰδώς implies both the possession and the application of the knowledge: ‘heeding,’ or ‘being aware of’),  that for a just man (in what sense? in the mere sense of ‘  virtuous ,’ ‘  righteous ,’ in the world’s acceptation of the term? in Chrys.’s third alternative, δίκαιον ἐνταῦθα καλεῖ τὸν κατωρθωκότα τὴν ἀρετήν ? or as Thl., ὃς δι ʼ αὐτὸ τὸ καλὸν τήν τε πονηρίαν μισεῖ καὶ τὴν ἀρετὴν περιπτύσσεται ? All such meanings are clearly excluded by 1 Timothy 1:11 , which sets the whole sentence in the full light of Gospel doctrine, and necessitates a corresponding interpretation for every term used in it.  δίκαιος therefore can only mean, righteous in the  Christian sense , viz. by  justifying faith and sanctification of the Spirit , ‘  justitia per sanctificationem ,’ as De Wette from Croc., one who is included in the actual righteousness of Christ by having put Him on, and so not  forensically amenable to the law , partaker of the inherent righteousness of Christ, inwrought by the Spirit, which unites him to Him, and so not  morally needing it )  the law (as before: not, ‘  a law ’ in general, as will be plain from the preceding remarks: nor does the omission of the article furnish any ground for such a rendering, in the presence of numerous instances where νόμος , anarthrous, is undeniably ‘the Law’ of Moses. Cf. Rom 2:25 bis; ib. Rom 2:27; Rom 3:28; Rom 3:31 bis; Romans 5:20 ; Romans 7:1 ; Romans 10:4 ; Galatians 2:19 ; Galatians 6:13 , to say nothing of the very many examples after prepositions. And of all parts of the N. T. anarthrousness need least surprise us in these Epistles, where many theological terms, having from constant use become technical words, have lost their articles. No such compromise as that of Bishop Middleton’s, that the Mosaic law is  comprehended in νόμος , will answer the requirements of the passage, which strictly deals with the Mosaic law and with nothing else: cf. on the catalogue of sins below. As De Wette remarks, this assertion = that in Romans 6:14 , οὐ γὰρ ἐστὲ ὑπὸ νόμον , ἀλλὰ ὑπὸ χάριν , Galatians 5:18 , εἰ πνεύματι ἄγεσθε , οὐκ ἐστὲ ὑπὸ νόμον )  is not enacted (see very numerous instances of νόμος κεῖται in Wetst. The following are some: Eur. Ion 1046, 7, ὅταν δὲ πολεμίους δρᾶσαι κακῶς | θέλῃ τις , οὐδεὶς ἐμποδὼν κεῖται νόμος : Thueyd. ii. 37, νόμως … ὅσοι τε ἐπ ʼ ὠφελείᾳ τῶν ἀδικουμένων κεῖνται : Galen. a. Julian. (Wetst.), νόμος οὐδεὶς κεῖται κατὰ τῶν ψευδῶς ἐγκαλούντων ),  but for lawless (reff.: not as in 1Co 9:21 )  and insubordinate (reff. Tit.: it very nearly = ἀπειθής , see Titus 1:16 ; Titus 3:3 , this latter being more subjective, whereas ἀνυποτάκτ . points to the objective fact. This first pair of adjectives expresses opposition to  the law , and so stands foremost as designating those for whom it is enacted),  for impious and sinful (see especially ref. 1 Pet. This second pair expresses opposition to  God , whose law it is  ἀσεβής being the man who does not reverence Him,  ἁμαρτωλός the man who lives in defiance of Him),  for unholy and profane (this last pair betokens separation and alienation from God and His law alike those who have no share in His holiness, no relation to things sacred. “The ἀσεβής is unholy through his lack of  reverence : the ἀνόσιος , through his lack of  inner purity .” Ellic.),  for father-slayers and mother-slayers (or it may be taken in the wider sense, as Ellic., ‘smiters of fathers:’ so Hesych.: ὁ τὸν πατέρα ἀτιμάζων , τύπτων ἢ κτείνων . In Demosth. κατὰ Τιμοκράτους , p. 732. 14, the word is used of ἡ τῶν γονέων κάκωσις : cf. the law cited immediately after. And Plato, Phæd. 114 a, apparently uses it in the same wide sense, as he distinguishes πατράλοιαι and μητράλοιαι from ἀνδροφόνοι .
	Hitherto the classes have been general, and (see above) arranged according to their opposition to the law, or to God, or to both: now he  takes the second table of the decalogue and goes through its commandments , to the ninth inclusive,  in order . πατρολῴαις καὶ μητρολῴαις are the transgressors of the  fifth ),  for manslayers (the  sixth ),  for fornicators, for sodomites (sins of abomination against both sexes: the  seventh ),  for slave-dealers ( εἴρηται ἀνδραποδιστὴς παρὰ τὸ ἄνδρα ἀποδίδοσθαι , τουτέστι πωλεῖν , Schol. Aristoph. Plut. v. 521. The etymology is wrong, but the meaning as he states: cf. Xen. Mem. i. 2. 6, τοὺς λαμβάνοντας τῆς ὁμιλίας μισθὸν ἀνδραποδιστὰς ἑαυτῶν ἀπεκάλει : and Pollux. Onomast. iii. 78, ἀνδραποδιστής , ὁ τὸν ἐλεύθερον καταδουλούμενος ἢ τὸν ἀλλότριον οἰκέτην ὑπαγόμενος . (Ellic.) The Apostle puts the ἀνδραποδιστής as the most flagrant of all breakers of the  eighth commandment. No theft of a man’s goods can be compared with that most atrocious act, which steals  the man himself , and robs him of that free will which is the first gift of his Creator. And of this crime all are guilty, who, whether directly or indirectly, are engaged in, or uphold from whatever pretence, the making or keeping of slaves),  for liars, for perjurers (breakers of the  ninth commandment. It is remarkable that he does not refer to that very commandment by which the law wrought on himself when he was alive without the law and sin was dead in him, viz. the  tenth . Possibly this may be on account of its more spiritual nature, as he here wishes to bring out the grosser kinds of sin against which the moral law is pointedly enacted. The subsequent clause however seems as if he had it in his mind, and on that account added a concluding general and inclusive description),  and if any thing else (he passes to sins themselves from the committers of sins)  is opposed (reff.)  to the healthy teaching (i.e. that moral teaching which is spiritually sound: = ἡ κατ ʼ εὐσέβειαν διδασκαλία , ch. 1 Timothy 6:3 , where it is parallel with ὑγιαίνοντες λόγοι οἱ τοῦ κυρ . ἡμ . Ἰησ . χριστοῦ . “The formula … stands in clear and suggestive contrast to the sickly (ch. 1Ti 6:4 ) and morbid ( 2Ti 2:17 ) teaching of Jewish gnosis.” Ellic.)  according to (belongs, not to ἀντίκειται , which would make the following words a mere flat repetition of τῇ ὑγιαιν . διδασκ . (see ch. 1 Timothy 6:1 ; 1Ti 6:3 ) nor to διδασκαλία , as Thl., τῇ ὑγ . διδ . τῇ οὔση κατὰ τὸ εὐαγγ ., all. (see D 1 in digest), for certainly in this case the specifying article must have been inserted, and thus also the above repetition would occur; but to the whole preceding sentence, the entire exposition which he has been giving of the freedom of Christians from the moral law of the decalogue)  the gospel of the glory (not, ‘  the glorious gospel ,’ see ref. 2 Cor.: all propriety and beauty of expression is here, as always, destroyed by this adjectival rendering. The gospel is ‘the glad tidings of the glory of God,’ as of Christ in 1. c., inasmuch as it reveals to us God in all His glory, which glory would be here that of justifying the sinner without the law by His marvellous provision of redemption in Christ)  of the blessed God ( μακὰριος , used of God, is called  unpaulinisch ) by De Wette, occurring only in 1 Tim. (ref.): in other words, one of those expressions which are peculiar to this later date and manner of the Apostle. On such, see Prolegomena),  with which I (emphatic)  was (aorist, indicating simply the past; pointing to the time during which this his commission had been growing into its fulness and importance)  entrusted (not these τινές .
	 ὃ ἐπιστεύθην is a construction only and characteristically pauline: see reff. The connexion with the following appears to be this: his mind is full of thankfulness at the thought of the commission which was thus entrusted to him: he does not regret the charge, but overflows with gratitude at the remembrance of Christ’s grace to him, especially when he recollects also what he once was; how nearly approaching (for I would not exclude even that thought as having contributed to produce these strong expressions) some of those whom he has just mentioned. So that he now goes off from the immediate subject, even more completely and suddenly than is his wont in his other writings, as again and again in these pastoral Epistles: shewing thereby, I believe, the tokens of advancing age, and of that faster hold of individual habits of thought and mannerisms, which characterizes the decline of life):
	(  12 ff.] See summary, on 1 Timothy 1:3 .)  I give thanks (  χάριν ἔχειν (reff.) is only used by the Apostle here and in 2 Tim. ref.)  to Him who enabled me (viz. for His work: not only as Chr., in one of his finest passages, φορτίον ὑπῆλθε μέγα , καὶ πολλῆς ἐδεῖτο τῆς ἄνωθεν ῥοπῆς . ἐννόησον γὰρ ὅσον ἦν πρὸς καθημερινὰς ὕβρεις , λοιδορίας , ἐπιβουλάς , κινδύνους , σκώμματα , ὀνείδη , θανάτους ἵστασθαι , καὶ μὴ ἀποκάμνειν , μηδὲ ὀλισθαίνειν , μηδὲ περιτρέπεσθαι , ἀλλὰ πάντοθεν βαλλόμενον μυρίοις καθ ʼ ἑκάστην ἡμέραν τοῖς βέλεσιν , ἀτενὲς ἔχοντα τὸ ὄμμα ἑστάναι καὶ ἀκατάπληκτον , see also Philippians 4:13 , for he evidently is here treating of the divine enlightening and strengthening which he received for the ministry: cf. Acts 9:22 , where the same word occurs a coincidence not to be overlooked. So Thdrt.: οὐ γὰρ οἰκείᾳ δυνάμει χρώμενος ταύτην τοῖς ἀνθρώποις προσφέρω τὴν διδασκαλίαν , ἀλλ ʼ ὑπὸ τοῦ σεσωκότος ῥωννύμενός τε καὶ νευρούμενος ,  Christ Jesus our Lord (not to be taken as the dativus commodi after ἐνδυναμώσαντι , but in apposition with τῷ ἐνδυν .),  that (not, ‘  because :’ it is the main ground of the χάριν ἔχω : the specification of τῷ ἐνδυναμώσαντι introducing a subordinate ground)  He accounted me faithful (cf. the strikingly similar expression, 1 Corinthians 7:25 , γνώμην δίδωμι ὡς ἠλεημένος ὑπὸ κυρίου πιστὸς εἶναι : He knew me to be such an one, in His foresight, as would prove faithful to the great trust),  appointing me (cf. ref. 1 Thess. The expression is there used of that appointment of God in His sovereignty, by which our course is marked for a certain aim or end: and so it is best taken here, not for the act of ‘  putting me into ’ the ministry, as E. V. But the present sense must be kept: not ‘  having appointed ,’  θέμενος constituting the  external proof of πιστόν με ἡγήσ .)  to the ministry (what sort of διακονία , is declared, Acts 20:24 , ἡ διακονία ἣν ἔλαβον παρὰ τοῦ κυρίου Ἰησοῦ , διαμαρτύρασθαι τὸ εὐαγγέλιον τῆς χάριτος τοῦ θεοῦ ),