 16 .]  howbeit (as E. V.: “not resumptive, but as in 1 Timothy 1:13 , seclusive and antithetical, marking the contrast between the Apostle’s own judgment on himself, and the mercy which God was pleased to shew him.” Ellic.)  for this purpose I had mercy shewn me, that in me (as an example; “in my case:” see reff. and cf. εἰς ὑποτύπωσιν below)  first (it can hardly be denied that in  πρώτῳ here the senses of ‘  chief ’ and ‘  first ’ are combined. This latter seems to be necessitated by  μελλόντων below. Though he was not in time ‘the first of sinners,’ yet he was the first as well as the most notable example of such marked long-suffering, held up for the encouragement of the church)  Christ Jesus might shew forth (dynamic middle: see note on ref. Eph., and Ellicott there)  the whole of His (not merely ‘  all ’ (all possible, πᾶσαν ): nor ‘all His’ (Conyb., Ellic.: πᾶσαν τὴν …), but ‘  the whole ,’ ‘the whole mass of μακροθυμία , of which I was an example; ὁ ἅπας seems to be found here only. If the rec. reading be in question, in all other cases where ὁ πᾶς occurs with a substantive in the N. T., it is one which admits of partition, and may therefore be rendered by ‘all the ‘or ‘the whole:’ e.g. Acts 20:18 , πῶς μεθ ʼ ὑμῶν τὸν πάντα χρόνον ἐγενόμην : see also ref. Wetst. has two examples from Polyb. in which ὁ πᾶς has the meaning of ‘  the utmost :’ τῆς πάσης ἀλογιστίας ἐστὶ σημεῖον , and τῆς ἁπάσης (as here) ἀτοπίας εἶναι σημεῖον )  long-suffering (not,  generosity, magnanimity : nor is the idea of  long -suffering here irrelevant, as some have said: Christ’s mercy gave him all that time for repentance, during which he was persecuting and opposing Him, and therefore it was his  long -suffering which was so wonderful),  for an example (cf. 2 Peter 2:6 , ὑπόδειγμα μελλόντων ἀσεβεῖν τεθεικώς . Wetst. has shewn by very copious extracts, that  ὑποτύπωσις is used by later writers, beginning with Aristotle, for a  sketch , an  outline , afterwards to be filled up. This indeed the recorded history of Paul would be, the filling up taking place in each man’s own case: see ref. 2 Tim., note. Or the meaning ‘sample,’ ‘ensample,’ as in 2 Timothy 1:13 , will suit equally well)  of (to, see Ellicott’s note, and Donaldson, Gr. Gr. § 450)  those who should (the time of μελλόντων is not the time of writing the Epistles, but that of the mercy being shewn: so that we must not say “who  shall ,” but “who  should ”)  believe on Him (the unusual  ἐπ  ʼ   αὐτῷ is easily accounted for, from its occurrence in so very common a quotation as πᾶς ὁ πιστεύων ἐπ ʼ αὐτῷ οὐ καταισχυνθήσεται , see reff. The propriety of the expression here is, that it gives more emphatically the ground of the πιστεύειν brings out more the  reliance implied in it almost q. d., ‘to rely on Him for eternal life.’ Ellicott has, in his note here, given a full and good classification of the constructions of πιστεύω in the N. T.)  to (belongs to πιστεύειν (see above) as its aim and end (cf. Heb 10:39 ): not to ὑποτύπωσιν , as Bengel suggests)  life eternal: