 5 .]  But (contrast to the practice of these pretended teachers of the law)  the end (purpose, aim: Chrys. quotes τέλος ἰατρικῆς ὑγιεία )  of the commandment (viz. of the law of God in ( 1Ti 1:11 ) the gospel: not, although in the word there may be a slight allusion to it, of that which Timothy was παραγγέλλειν , 1 Timothy 1:3 . This commandment is understood from the οἰκονομία just mentioned, of which it forms a part)  is Love (as Romans 13:10 . We recognize, in the restating of former axiomatic positions, without immediate reference to the subject in hand, the characteristic of a later style of the Apostle)  out of (arising, springing from, as its place of birth the heart being the central point of life: see especially ref. 1 Pet.)  a pure heart (pure from all selfish views and leanings: see Acts 15:9 ; on the psychology, see Ellicott’s note: and Delitzsch, Biblische Psychologie, iv. 12, p. 204)  and good conscience (is this συνείδησις ἀγαθή , 1) a conscience good by being freed from guilt by the application of Christ’s blood, or is it 2) a conscience pure in motive, antecedent to the act of love? This must be decided by the usage of this and similar expressions in these Epistles, where they occur several times (reff. and 1Ti 3:9 . 2 Timothy 1:3 . 1 Timothy 4:2 . Tit 1:15 ). From those examples it would appear, as De W., that in the language of the pastoral Epistles  a good conscience is joined with  soundness in the faith, a bad, conscience with  unsoundness . So that we can hardly help introducing the element of  freedom from guilt by the effect of that faith on the conscience . And the earlier usage of St. Paul in Acts 23:1 , compared with the very similar one in 2 Timothy 1:3 , goes to substantiate this)  and faith unfeigned (this connects with τὴν ἐν πίστει above; it is faith, not the pretence of faith, the mere ‘  Scheinglaube ’ of the hypocrite, which, as in Acts 15:9 , καθαρίζει τὰς καρδίας , and as in Galatians 5:6 , δι ʼ ἀγάπης ἐνεργεῖαι : Wiesinger well remarks that we see from this, that the general character of these false teachers, as of those against whom Titus is warned, was not so much error in doctrine, as leading men away from the earnestness of the loving Christian life, to useless and vain questionings, ministering only  strife ):