 6 .] (the connexion is it was by declining from these qualities that these men entered on their paths of error)  of which (the καθαρὰ καρδία , συνείδησις ἀγαθή , and πίστις ἀνυπόκριτος the sources of ἀγάπη , which last they have therefore missed by losing them)  some having failed (reff.: ‘missed their mark:’ but this seems hardly precise enough: it is not so much to miss a thing at which a man is aiming, as to leave unregarded one at which he ought to be aiming: as Schweigh. Lex. Polyb., ‘rationem alicujus rei non habere, et respectu ejus sibi male consulere.’ Thus Polyb. i. 33. 10, τῆς μὲν πρὸς τὰ θηρία μάχης δεόντως ἦσαν ἐστοχασμένοι , τῆς δὲ πρὸς τοὺς ἱππεῖς , πολλαπλασίους ὄντας τῶν παρ ʼ αὐτοῖς , ὁλοσχερῶς ἠστόχησαν ; v. 107. 2, πρὸς μὲν τὸ παρὸν ἐνδεχομένως ἐβουλεύσατο , τοῦ δὲ μέλλοντος ἠστόχησε : see also vii. 14. 3)  turned aside to ( ἐξ -, away from the path leading to the τέλος , 1 Timothy 1:5 , in which they should have been walking: the idiom is often found in the examples cited by Wetst.: e.g. Plato, Phædr., δεῦρ ʼ ἐκτραπόμενος κατὰ τὸν Ἴλισσον ἴωμεν , Thuc. v. 1:65, τὸ ὕδωρ ἐξέτρεπε κατὰ τὴν Μαντινικήν , and in Polyb., ἐκτρέπεσθαι εἰς ὀλιγαρχίαν , vi. 4. 9, εἰς τὴν συμφυῆ κακίαν , ib. 10. 2 and 7: and in Hippocr. de temp. morbi, even nearer to our present phrase, εἰς μακρολογίαν ἐξετράποντο )  foolish speaking (of what kind, is explained 1 Timothy 1:7 , and Titus 3:9 , which place connects this expression with our 1 Timothy 1:4 . It is the vain questions arising out of the law which he thus characterizes. Herod. (ii. 118) uses μάταιος λόγος of an  idle tale , an  empty fable : εἰρομένου δέ μευ τοὺς ἱρέας , εἰ μάταιον λόγον λέγουσι οἱ Ἕλληνες τὰ περὶ Ἴλιον γενέσθαι ),  wishing to be (giving themselves out as, without really being: so Paus. i. 4. 6, αὐτοὶ δὲ Ἄρκαδες ἐθέλουσιν εἶναι τῶν ὁμοῦ Τηλέφῳ διαβάντων ἐς τὴν Ἀσίαν . Cf. Palm and Rost’s Lex. sub voce)  teachers of the law (of what law? and in what sense? To the former question, but one answer can be given. The law is that of Moses;  the law , always so known. The usage of  νομοδιδάσκαλος (reff.) forbids our giving the word, as coming from a Jew, any other meaning. That this is so, is also borne out by Titus 1:14 . Then as to the sense in which these men professed themselves teachers of the law. (1) Clearly not, as Baur, by their very antinomianism, teachers of the law by setting it aside: this would at best be an unnatural sense to extract from the word, and it is not in any way countenanced by 1 Timothy 1:8 ff. as Baur thinks: see below. (2) Hardly, in the usual position of those Judaizing antagonists of St. Paul against whom he directs his arguments in Rom., Gal., and Col. Of these he would hardly have predicated ματαιολογία , nor would he have said μὴ νοοῦντες κ . τ . λ .  Their offence was not either of these things, promulgating of idle fables, or ignorance of their subject, but one not even touched on here an offence against the liberty of the Gospel, and its very existence, by reintroducing the law and its requirements. (3) We may see clearly by the data furnished in these pastoral Epistles, that it was with a different class of adversaries that the Apostle had in them to deal: with men who corrupted the material enactments of the moral law, and founded on Judaism not assertions of its obligation, but idle fables and allegories, letting in latitude of morals, and unholiness of life. It is against this  abuse of the law that his arguments are directed: no formal question arises of the  obligation of the law: these men struck, by their interpretation, at the root of all divine law itself, and therefore at that root itself does he meet and grapple with them. (See more in Prolegg.) Hence the following description),  understanding neither (notice  μήτε  …   μήτε , making the two branches of the negation parallel, not progressively exclusive, as would be the case with μηδέ : they understand as little about the one as about the other)  the things which they say (the actual diatribes which they themselves put forth, they do not understand: they are not honest men, speaking from conviction, and therefore lucidly: but men depraved in conscience ( Tit 1:14-15 ), and putting forth things obscure to themselves, for other and selfish purposes),  nor concerning what things they make their affirmations (nor those objective truths which properly belong to and underlie the matters with which they are thus tampering. This explanation of the sentence is called in question by De W., on the ground of the parallel expression in Titus 3:8 , περὶ τούτων βούλομαί σε διαβεβαιοῦσθαι , in which he maintains that in διαβεβαιοῦσθαι περί τινος , περί τινος represents the mere  thing asserted , not the objective matter  concerning which the assertion is made, and he therefore holds our sentence to be a mere tautology, ἃ λέγουσιν answering exactly to περὶ τίνων διαβεβαιοῦνται . But in reply we may say, that there is not the slightest necessity for such a construction in the passage of Titus: see note there. And so Huth., Wies. Cf. Arrian. Epict. ii. 21, τί δ ʼ ἐροῦσι καὶ περὶ τίνων ἢ πρὸς τίνας , καὶ τί ἔσται αὐτοῖς ἐκ τῶν λόγων τούτων , οὐδὲ καταβραχὲς πεφροντίκασι ).