 18 ff.] He now returns to the matter which he dropped in 1 Timothy 1:3 , not indeed formally, so as to supply the apodosis there neglected, but virtually: the παραγγελία not being the one there hinted at, for that was one not given  to Timotheus, but  to be given by him. Nor is it that in 1 Timothy 1:5 , for that is introduced as regarding a matter quite different from the present viz. the aberrations of the false teachers, who do not here appear till the exhortation to Timotheus is over. What this command is, is plain from the following.  This command I commit (as a deposit, to be faithfully guarded and kept: see ref. 2 Tim. and ch. 1 Timothy 6:20 ; Herod. vi. 86, beginning)  to thee, son Timotheus (see on 1Ti 1:2 ),  according to (in pursuance of: these words belong to παρατίθεμαί σοι , not as Œc., Flatt, al., to ἵνα στρατεύῃ below)  the former prophecies concerning thee (the directions, or, prophecies properly so called, of the Holy Spirit, which were spoken concerning Timotheus at his first conversion, or at his admission (cf. ch. 1Ti 4:14 ) into the ministry, by the προφῆται in the church. We have instances of such prophetic intimations in Acts 13:1-2 , (Acts 11:28 ,) Acts 21:10-11 .  By such intimations, spoken perhaps by Silas, who was with him, and who was a προφήτης ( Act 15:32 ), may St. Paul have been first induced to take Timotheus to him as a companion, Acts 16:3 . All other meanings, which it has been attempted to give to προφητείας , are unwarranted, and beside the purpose here: as e.g. ‘  the good hopes conceived of thee ,’ Heinrichs. The  ἐπὶ σέ belongs to προφητείας , the preposition of motion being easily accounted for by the  reference to a subject implied in the word),  that thou mayest (purpose, and at the same time purport, of the παραγγελία : cf. note, 1 Corinthians 14:13 ; and Ellicott on Eph 1:16 )  war ( στρατεύεσθαι , of the whole business of the employed soldier; not merely of fighting, properly so called)  in them (not as De W. ‘  by virtue of them ,’ but as Mack, Matth., and Wies., ‘  in ,’ as clad with them, as if they were his defence and confirmation. This is not  zu künstlich , as Huther, seeing that the whole expression is figurative)  the good warfare (not, as Conyb., ‘fight the good fight,’ by which same words he renders the very different expression in 2 Timothy 4:7 , τὸν ἀγῶνα τὸν καλὸν ἠγώνισμαι . It is the  whole campaign , not the fight alone, which is here spoken of),  holding fast (more than ‘  having ;’ but we must hardly, as Matth., carry on the metaphor and think of the shield of faith Ephesians 6:16 , such continuation being rendered unlikely by the unmetaphorical character of τὴν ἀγαθὴν συνείδησιν )  faith (subjective: cf. περὶ  τὴν πίστιν below)  and good conscience (cf. 1Ti 1:5 ),  which (latter, viz.  good conscience not, both)  some having thrust from them (there is something in the word implying the violence of the act required, and the importunity of conscience, reluctant to be so extruded. So Bengel: ‘recedit invita: semper dicit, noli me Iædere’)  made shipwreck (the similitude is so common a one, that it is hardly necessary to extend the figure of a shipwreck beyond the word itself, nor to find in ἀπωσάμενοι allusions to a rudder, anchor, &c. See examples in Wetst.)  concerning (see reff., and cf. Acts 19:25 , οἱ περὶ τὰ τοιαῦτα ἐργάται , also Luke 10:40 . The same is elsewhere expressed by ἐν , so Diog. Laërt. v. 2. 14, ἐν τοῖς ἰδίοις μάλα νεναυαγηκώς , Plut. Symp. i. 4, ἐν οἷς τὰ πλεῖστα ναυαγεῖ συμπόσια . See other examples in Kypke: Winer, edn. 6, § 49. i.: and Ellicott’s note here)  the faith (objective):  of whom (genitive partitive: among whom)  is Hymenæus (there is a Hymenæus mentioned 2 Timothy 2:17 , in conjunction with Philetus, as an heretical teacher. There is no reason to distinguish him from this one: nor any difficulty occasioned (De W.) by the fact of his being here παραδοθεὶς τῷ σατανᾷ , and there mentioned as overthrowing the faith of many. He would probably go on with his evil teaching in spite of the Apostle’s sentence, which could carry weight with those only who were sound in the faith)  and Alexander (in all probability identical with Ἀλέξανδρος ὁ χαλκεύς , 2 Timothy 4:14 . There is nothing against it in what is there said of him (against De Wette). He appears there to have been an adversary of the Apostle, who had withstood and injured him at his late visit to Ephesus: but there is no reason why he should not have been still under this sentence at that time):  whom I delivered over to Satan (there does not seem to be, as almost always taken for granted, any necessary assertion of excommunication properly so called. The delivering to Satan, as in 1 Corinthians 5:5 , seems to have been an apostolic act, for the purpose of active punishment, in order to correction. It might or might not be accompanied by extrusion from the church: it appears to have been thus accompanied in 1 Corinthians 5:5 : but the two must not be supposed identical. The upholders of such identity allege the fact of Satan’s empire being conceived as including all outside the church ( Act 26:18 al.): but such expressions are too vague to be adduced as applying to a direct assertion like this. Satan, the adversary, is evidently regarded as the buffeter and tormentor, cf. 2Co 12:7 ever ready, unless his hand were held, to distress and afflict God’s people, and ready therefore, when thus let loose by one having power over him, to execute punishment with all his malignity.
	Observe that the verb is not perfect but aorist. He did this when he was last at Ephesus. On the ecclesiastical questions here involved, Ellic. has, as usual, some very useful references)  that they may be disciplined (the subj. after the aorist indicates that the effect of what was done still abides; the sentence was not yet taken off, nor the παίδευσις at an end.
	 παιδεύω , as in reff.,  to instruct by punishment, to discipline )  not to blaspheme (God, or Christ, whose holy name was brought to shame by these men associating it with unholy and unclean doctrines).