 3 .] The sentence begins  As I exhorted thee , &c., but in his negligence of writing, the Apostle does not finish the construction: neither 1 Timothy 1:5 , nor 12, nor 18, will form the apodosis without unnatural forcing.
	 παρεκάλεσα ] Chr. lays stress on the word, as implying great mildness ἄκουε τὸ προσηνές , πῶς οὐ διδασκάλου κέχρηται ῥωμῇ , ἀλλ ʼ οἰκέτου σχεδόν · οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν ἐπέταξα οὐδὲ ἐκέλευσα , οὐδὲ παρῄνεσα , ἀλλὰ τί ; παρεκάλεσά σε . This has been met (Huther, al.), by remarking that he says διεταξάμην to Titus, Titus 1:5 . The present word however was the usual one to his fellow-helpers, see reff.: and διεταξάμην there refers rather to a matter of detail ‘as I prescribed to thee.’
	The sense of  προσμεῖναι ,  to tarry , or  stay at a place, is sufficiently clear from ref. Acts. The  προς - implies a fixity when the word is absolutely used, which altogether forbids the joining προσμεῖναι with πορευόμενος understood of Timotheus, as some have attempted to do. The aorist προσμεῖναι refers to the  act of remaining behind when the Apostle departed; the  present would have marked an  endurance of stay . Various endeavours have been made to escape from the difficulties of the fact implied. Schneckenburger would read προσμείνας : others would take προσμεῖναι as imperative, most unnaturally. No one can doubt, that the straightforward rendering is,  As I besought thee to tarry in Ephesus, when I was going to Macedonia .… And on this straightforward rendering we must build our chronological considerations. See the whole subject discussed in the prolegomena, ch. vii. § ii.: and cf. Ellicott’s note here.
	 προευόμενος , present,  when I was on my way .
	 ἵνα , &c. object of his tarrying.
	 παραγγείλῃς , see reff.
	 τισίν ] so constantly (reff.) in these Epistles: sometimes οἱ ἀντιλέγοντες Titus 1:9 , or πολλοί ib. Titus 1:10 . Huther infers from τισί , that the number at this time was not considerable: but this is hardly safe. “The indefinite pronoun is more probably  slightly contemptuous: ‘le mot τινες a quelque chose de méprisant,’ see Arnaud, on Jude 1:4 , compare Galatians 2:12 .” Ellicott.
	 ἑτεροδιδασκαλεῖν ] There seems to be in ἑτερο -, as in ἑτεροζυγοῦντες 2 Corinthians 6:14 , the idea of  strange , or  incongruous , not merely of different: cf. also ἑτερόγλωσσος , 1 Corinthians 14:21 . And the compound - διδασκαλεῖν , not - διδάσκειν , brings in the sense of ‘  acting as a teacher :’  not to be teachers of strange things . Eusebius has the substantive, H. E. iii. 32 διὰ τῆς τῶν ἑτεροδιδασκάλων ἀπάτης , in the sense of heretical teachers which however is too fixed and developed a meaning to give here. We have καλοδιδάσκαλος , Titus 2:3 . The meanings of ‘other teaching’ and ‘false teaching,’ when we remember that the faith which St. Paul preached was incapable ( Gal 1:8-9 ) of any the least compromise with the errors subsequently described, lie very close to one another.
	 προσέχειν ,  to give attention to: see reff.: “as it were, a mean term between ἀκούειν and πιστεύειν , compare Polyb. iv. 84. 6, διακούσαντες οὐδὲν προσέσχον ; Jos. B. J. vii. 5. 3, οὔτε προσεῖχον οὔτε ἐπίστευον .” Ellicott.
	 μύθοις ] We can only judge from the other passages in these Epistles where the word occurs, what kind of fables are alluded to. In Titus 1:14 , we have μὴ προσέχοντες Ἰουδαϊκοῖς μύθοις . In our ch. 1 Timothy 4:7 , they are designated as βέβηλοι καὶ γραώδεις . In 2 Timothy 4:4 , they are spoken of absolutely, as here. If we are justified in identifying the ‘fables’ in Tit. with these, they had a Jewish origin: but merely to take them, as Thdrt., for the Jewish traditional comments on the law ( μύθους δὲ οὐ τὴν τοῦ νόμου διδασκαλίαν ἐκάλεσεν , ἀλλὰ τὴν ἰουδαϊκὴν ἑρμηνείαν τὴν ὑπ ʼ αὐτῶν καλουμένην δευτέρωσιν ( משְׁנֶה , mischna)), does not seem to satisfy the βέβηλοι καὶ γραώδεις . And consequently others have interpreted them of the gnostic mythology of the Æons. So Tert. adv. Valentinianos, ch. 3, vol. ii. p. 515: ‘qui ex alia conscientia venerit fidei, si statim inveniat tot nomina æonum, tot coniugia, tot genimina, tot exitus, tot eventus, felicitates, infelicitates dispersae atque concisae divinitatis, dubitabiturne ibidem pronuntiare, has esse fabulas et genealogias indeterminatas, quas apostoli spiritus his iam tunc pullulantibus seminibus haereticis damnare praevenit?’ And Iren., in his præf., p. 1, assumes these words in the very outset, almost as his motto ἐπεὶ τὴν ἀλήθειαν παραπεμπόμενοί τινες ἐπεισάγουσι λόγους ψευδεῖς κ . γενεαλογίας ματαίας αἵτινες ζητήσεις μᾶλλον παρέχουσι , καθὼς ἱ ἀπόστολός φησιν , ἢ οἰκοδομὴν θεοῦ τὴν ἐν πίστει .… Others again (as Suidas’s definition, μῦθος , λόγος ψευδής , εἰκονίζων τὴν ἀλήθειαν ) would give an entirely general meaning to the word, ‘false teaching’ of any kind. But this is manifestly too lax: for the descriptions here (1 Timothy 1:7 , e.g.) point at a Jewish origin, and a development in the direction of γενεαλογίαι ἀπέραντοι . It does not seem easy to define any further these μῦθοι , but it is plain that any transitional state from Judaism to gnosticism will satisfy the conditions here propounded, without inferring that the full-blown gnosticism of the second century must be meant, and thus calling in question the genuineness of the Epistle. On the whole subject, see Prolegg. ch. vii. § i. 8 ff.
	 γενεαλ  .   ἀπερ  . ] De W. in his note on Titus 1:14 , marks out well the references which have been assigned to this expression: “  γενεαλογίαι cannot be 1)  properly genealogical registers , either for a pure genealogico-historical end (Chr., Œc., Thl., Ambr., Est., Calov., Schöttg., Wolf), or for a dogmatico-historical one, to foster the religious national pride of Jews against Gentiles, cf. Philippians 3:4 f. (Storr, Flatt, Wegsch., Leo), or to ascertain the descent of the Messiah (Thdrt., Jer., Wegsch.: according to Nicol. Lyr., to shew that Jesus was not the Messiah), least of all genealogies of Timotheus himself (Wetst.), for all this does not touch, or too little touches religious interests: nor are they 2)  gentile theogonies (Chr. gives this as well as the former interpretation: also Œc., Thl., Elsn.); nor again 3)  pedigrees of the cabalistic sephiroth (Vitring. Obss. 1, 1 Timothy 1:13 ; see Wolf), which will hardly suit γενεαλ .: nor 4)  Essenian genealogies of angels (Mich., Heinr., al.), of the existence of which we have no proof; nor 5)  allegorizing genealogies , applications of psychological and historical considerations to the genealogies contained in the books of Moses; as in Philo (Dähne, Stud. u. Krit. 1853, 1008), a practice too peculiar to Philo and his view: but most probably 6)  lists of gnostic emanations (Tert. contr. Val. 3, præscr. 33, Iren, præf. (see above), Grot., Hamm., Chr., Mosh., Mack, Baur, al.), &c.”
	But again, inasmuch as  γενεαλογίαι are coupled in Tit 3:9 with μάχαι νομικαί , it seems as if we must hardly understand the ripened fruits of gnosticism, but rather the first beginnings of those genealogies in the abuse of Judaism. See Prolegg. “It is curious that Polybius uses both terms in similarly close connexion, Hist. ix. 2. 1.” Ellicott.
	 ἀπεράντοις may be used merely in popular hyperbole to signify the tedious length of such genealogies. The meaning ‘  profitless ’ (Chr., ἤτοι πέρας μηδὲν ἔχουσαι , ἢ οὐδὲν χρήσιμον , ἢ δυσκατάληπτον ἡμῖν , and so Thdrt.; see below) would be a natural deduction from the other, and is therefore hardly to be so summarily set aside as it has been by De W., al.
	 αἵτινες ,  of the kind which .
	 ζητήσεις ] objective,  questions : not subjective, ‘  questionings :’ see reff. in these Epistles, in which ζητήσεις are not themselves, but lead to, ἔρεις , μάχαι , &c.
	 παρέχουσιν ]  minister , as E. V., is the best rendering: ‘  afford ,’ ‘  give rise to ,’ ‘  furnish :’ see below.
	 μᾶλλον ἤ is a mild way of saying καὶ οὐ : see reff.
	 οἰκονομίαν θεοῦ …] This has been taken two ways: 1) objectively:  the dispensation (reff.)  of God (towards man)  which is (consists)  in (the)  faith : in which case παρέχουσιν must bear something of a transferred meaning, zeugmatic, as the grammarians call it, as applied to οἰκονομίαν , implying, “rather than they  set forth ,” &c. And to this there can be no objection, as the instances of it are so common. This meaning also suits that of οἰκονομία in the reff., even 1 Corinthians 9:17 , where the οἰκονομία is the objective matter wherewith the Apostle was entrusted, not his own subjective fulfilment of it. 2) subjectively: ‘  the exercising of the stewardship of God in faith :’ so Conyb.: or as paraphrased by Storr (in Huther) ζητοῦντας αὐτοὺς ποιοῦσι , μᾶλλον ἢ οἰκονόμους θεοῦ πιστούς . But to this there is the serious objection, that οἰκονομία in this subjective sense, ‘  the fulfilment of the duty of an οἰκονόμος ,’ wants example: and even could this be substantiated, οἰκονομίαν παρέχειν , in the sense required, would seem again questionable. I would therefore agree with Huther and Wiesinger (and Ellicott) in the objective sense  the dispensation of God . Then  τὴν ἐν πίστει has also been variously taken. Chrys. says, καλῶς εἶπεν , οἰκονομίαν θεοῦ · μεγάλα γὰρ ἡμῖν δοῦναι ἠθέλησεν ὁ θεός , ἀλλ ʼ οὐ δέχεται ὁ λογισμὸς τὸ μέγεθος αὐτοῦ τῶν οἰκονομιῶν . διὰ πίστεως οὖν τοῦτο γίνεσθαι δεῖ . And Thdrt.: αἱ μὲν περιτταὶ ζητήσεις ἀνόνητοι , ἡ δὲ πίστις φωτίζει τὸν νοῦν , καὶ ἐπιδείκνυσι τὰς θείας οἰκονομίας . But the words will hardly bear either of these. The only legitimate meaning seems to be  which is in faith , i.e. finds its sphere, and element, and development among men, in faith. Thus  ἐν πίστει stands in contrast to ζητήσεις , in which the οἰκονομία θεοῦ  does not consist; and the way for the next sentence is prepared, which speaks of πίστις ἀνυπόκριτος as one of the means to the great end of the Gospel.