 14 .] Proof of this ἐνεργεῖται , that they had imitated in endurance the Judæan churches.
	 ὑμεῖς γάρ resumes ὑμῖν above.
	 μιμηταί ] not in intention, but in fact. (On ἐγενήθητε , see on ch. 1 Thessalonians 1:5 .) Calvin suggests the following reason for his here introducing the conflict of the Judæan churches with the Jews: ‘Poterat illis hoc venire in mentem: Si hæc vera est religio, cur eam tam infestis animis oppugnant Judæi, qui sunt sacer Dei populus? Ut hoc offendiculum tollat, primum admonet, hoc eos commune habere cum primis Ecclesiis, quæ in Judæa erant: postea Judæos dicit obstinatos esse Dei et omnis sacræ doctrinæ hostes.’ But manifestly this is very far-fetched, and does not naturally lie in the context: as neither does Olsh.’s view, that he wishes to mark out the judaizing Christians, as persons likely to cause mischief in the Thessalonian church. The reason for introducing this character of the Jews here was because (Acts 17:5 ff.)  they had been the stirrers up of the persecution against himself and Silas at Thessalonica, to which circumstance he refers below. By the mention of them as the adversaries of the Gospel in Judæa he is carried on to say that there, as well as at Thessalonica, they had ever been its chief enemies. And this is a remarkable concidence with the history in the Acts, where we find him at this time, in Corinth, in more than usual conflict with the Jews (Acts 18:5-6 ; Act 18:12 ).
	On  ἐν χριστῷ Ἰησοῦ Œc. remarks, εὐφυῶς διεῖλεν · ἐπειδὴ γὰρ καὶ αἱ συναγωγαὶ τῶν Ἰουδαίων ἐν θεῷ εἶναι δοκοῦσι , τὰς τῶν πιστῶν ἐκκλησίας καὶ ἐν τῷ θεῷ καὶ ἐν τῷ υἱῷ αὐτοῦ λέγει εἶναι .
	 συμφυλέτης , ὁμοεθνής , Hesych. Herodian says, πολίτης , δημότης , φυλέτης , ἄνευ τῆς σύν , συνέφηβος δὲ καὶ συνθιασώτης κ . συμπότης μετὰ τῆς σύν · ὅτι καὶ πρόσκαιρος αὐτῶν ἡ κοινωνία , ἐπὶ δὲ τῶν προτέρων οὐχ ὁμοίως . And this criticism seems just: the Latins also using  civis meus not  concivis , of the enduring relation of fellow-citizen, but  commilito meus , not  miles meus , of the temporary relation of fellow-soldier. See Scaliger, in Lobeck on Phrynichus, p. 471 (also p. 172). Ellicott would regard these words merely as supererogatory compounds belonging to later Greek. These  συμφυλέται were not Jews wholly nor in part, but Gentiles only. For they are set in distinct contrast here to οἱ Ἰουδαῖοι .
	 τὰ αὐτὰ  …   καθώς ] The proper apodosis to τὰ αὐτά would be ἅ , or ἅπερ . But such inaccuracies are found in the classics: Kühner (ii. 571) cites from Plato, Phæd. p. 86 A, εἴ τις διϊσχυρίζοιτο τῷ αὐτῷ λόγῳ ὥσπερ σύ : so also Legg. p. 671 C; Xen. An. i. 10. 10.
	 αὐτοί , not ‘  we ourselves ,’ as Erasm., al.: but the members of the Judæan churches mentioned above. The same construction occurs in Galatians 1:22-23 .