 17 .]  ἡμεῖς δέ resumes the subject broken off at 1 Thessalonians 2:13 ; the  δέ introducing a contrast to the description of the Jews in 1 Thessalonians 2:15-16 .
	 ἀπορφανισθέντες ]  ὀρφανός is properly used, as with us, of children who have lost their parents. But it is found in a wider sense, e.g. John 14:8 , Pind., Isthm. vii. 16, ὀρφανὸν μυρίων ἑτάρων , Olymp. ix. 92, ὀρφανοὶ γενεᾶς ( ὀρφ . τέκνων , Dion. Hal. Antt. i. p. 69, Kypke): Hesych.: ὀροφανός , ὁ γονέων ἐστερημένος καὶ τέκνων (compare the similitude, 1Th 2:7 ). The word  ἀπορφανίζω occurs Æsch. Choëph. 247, of the eagles’ brood deprived of their parents. Here it is used in deep affection, the preposition giving the sense of  local severance, which is further specified by ἀφ ʼ ὑμῶν following. There is no occasion to press the metaphor, as Chrys., al.
	 πρὸς καιρὸν ὥρας ]  for the space of an hour , i.e. for a very short time: it is a combination of the expressions πρὸς καιρόν and πρὸς ὥραν , see reff. It refers, not to his present impression that the time of separation would still be short (as Flatt and De W.), for this the past participle ἀπορφανισθέντες forbids, but to the time alluded to in that past participle  when we had been separated from you for the space of an hour .
	 προσώπ  .   οὐ κ  . ] datives of the manner in which (i.e. as Ellic. ‘marking, with the true limiting power of the case, the metaphorical place,’ which in the interpretation of the metaphor would be manner or form, ‘to which the sense is restricted’) no separation in heart took place.
	 περισσοτ  .   ἐσπ  . ]  the more abundantly (because our separation was so short. Lünem. says well: “Universal experience testifies, that the pain of separation from friends and the desire of return to them are more vivid, the more freshly the remembrance of the parting works in the spirit, i.e. the less time has elapsed since the parting.” Therefore the explanation of Œc. and Thl., after Chrys., is unpsychological: περισσοτέρως ἐσπουδάσαμεν , ἢ ὡς εἰκὸς ἦν τοὺς πρὸς ὥραν ἀπολειφθέντας . Luth., Bretschn., De W., and Ellic. understand it ‘the more,’ i.e. than if I  had been separated from you in heart: but the above seems both simpler and more delicate in feeling)  endeavoured (implies actual setting on foot of measures to effect it)  in much desire (i.e. very earnestly)  to see your face .