 15 .  τῶν καί ] The repeated καί serves for enumeration.
	 τὸν κύρ  .   ἀποκτ  .   Ἰησ  . is thus arranged to give prominence to  τὸν κύρ  . , and thus enhance the enormity of the deed: it should be rendered  who killed Jesus the Lord ,  τὸν κύρ  . being in a position of emphasis.
	 κ  .   τοὺς προφήτας ] belongs to ἀποκτεινάντων (see Matthew 23:31-37 ; Act 7:52 ), not to ἐκδιωξ . as De W. His objection, that all the prophets were not killed, is irrelevant: neither were they all persecuted. The ἰδίους of rec. appears to have been an early insertion: Tert. ascribes it to Marcion.
	 ἐκδιωξ  . ]  drove out by persecution , viz. from among you, Acts 17:5 ff., not for the simple verb διωξ . (De W.), nor does the preposition merely strengthen the verb (Lünem.), but it retains its proper meaning ( ὁ δῆμος αὐτῶν ἐξεδίωξε τοὺς δυνατούς , οἱ δὲ ἀπελθόντες … Thuc. i. 24), and the aorist refers it to a definite event, as in the case of ἀποκτεινάντων : when their  habit is spoken of, the participles are  present , e.g. ἀρεσκόντων and κωλυόντων below.
	 ἡμᾶς refers to Paul and Silas.
	 θεῷ μὴ ἀρεσκ  . ] The  μή gives a subjective sense: not exactly that of Bengel, al., ‘  Deo placere non quærentium .’ For in strictness, as Ellicott, the shade of subjectivity is only to be found in the aspect in which the subject and the participle is presented to the reader: and therefore can hardly be reproduced in English. Compare on the usage, Winer, edn. 6, § 55. 5, g. β , and Ellicott’s note here. In  πᾶσιν ἀνθρώποις ἐναντίων , most Commentators, and recently Jowett (see above), have seen the  odium humani generis ascribed to the Jews by Tacitus (Hist. 1Th 2:5 ), and by several other classic authors (Juv. Sat. xiv. 103 ff. Diod. Sic. xxxiv. p. 524, &c.). But it is hardly possible that St. Paul, himself a Jew, should have blamed an exclusiveness which arose from the strict monotheism and legal purity of the Jew: and besides this, the construction having been hitherto carried on by copulæ, but now dropping them, most naturally goes on from ἐναντίων to κωλυόντων ,  in that they prevent , and thus κωλ . specifies wherein the ἐναντιότης consists, viz. in opposing the salvation of mankind by the Gospel. So that the other seems to be irrelevant (so nearly Lünem.).