 8 .]  οὕτως belongs to εὐδοκοῦμεν , and is the apodosis to ὡς above.
	 ὁμειρόμενοι ] ὁμείρεσθαι is found in reff. only (and in both, the MSS. differ), except in the glossaries. Hesych., Phavor., and Phot. explain it by ἐπιθυμεῖν . Thl. says, τουτέστι , προσδεδεμένοι ὑμῖν , κ . ἐχόμενοι ὑμῶν , παρὰ τὸ ὁμοῦ κ . τὸ εἴρω , τὸ συμπλέκω : and Phot. gives ὁμοῦ ἡρμόσθαι as its meaning. But as Lünem. observes after Winer, edn. 6, § 16, B.  b ), “This is suspicious, 1) because the verb here governs a genitive and not a dative, 2) because there is no instance of a similar verb compounded with ὁμοῦ or ὁμός . Now as in Nicander (Theriaca, 2:402) the simple form μείρεσθαι occurs in the sense of ἱμείρεσθαι , it can hardly be doubted that μείρεσθαι is the original root, to which ἱμείρεσθαι and ὁμείρεσθαι (having the same meaning) are related, having a syllable prefixed for euphony. Cf. the analogous forms κέλλω and ὀκέλλω , δύρομαι and ὀδύρομαι , φλέω and ὀφλέω , αὔω , and ἰαύω , &c., and see Kühner, i. p. 27.”
	It will thus perhaps be best rendered by  loving you, earnestly desiring you .
	 εὐδοκ  . ] not present, but imperfect, without an augment, as is also generally the aorist εὐδόκησα in N. T.: see Winer, § 12. 3. a:  we delighted ; ‘it was my joy to …’ Conyb.
	 τὰς ἑαυτ  .   ψυχάς , as remarked above, shews beyond doubt that he is including here Silas and Timotheus with himself.
	 μεταδοῦναι will not strictly apply to τὰς ἑαυ . ψυχ ., but we must borrow from the compound verb the idea of giving, or offering.
	The comparison is exceedingly tender and beautiful: as the nursing-mother, cherishing her children, joys to give not only her milk, but her life, for them, so we, bringing up you as spiritual children, delighted in giving, not only the milk of the word, but even (and here it was matter of fact) our own lives, for your nourishment in Christ. And that,  because ye became (the passive form ἐγενήθητε must not be pressed to a passive meaning, as in my earlier editions: see on ch. 1Th 1:5 )  very dear to us .