 13 .]  διὰ τοῦτο is best and most simply referred, with Lünem., to the fact announced in the preceding words viz. that God καλεῖ ὑμᾶς εἰς , &c. Seeing that He is thus calling you, your thorough reception of His word is to us a cause of thanksgiving to Him. That διὰ τοῦτο is made thus ‘to refer to a mere appended clause’ (Ellic.) is no objection: see above on 1 Thessalonians 2:9 . It is surely not possible with Jowett, to refer διὰ τοῦτο ‘to the verses both before and after.’
	 καὶ ἡμεῖς ]  We also , i.e. as well as πἀντες οἱ πιστεύοντες ἐν τῇ Μακεδ . κ . ἐν τῇ Ἀχ ., ch. 1 Thessalonians 1:7 .
	 παραλαβόντες  …   ἐδέξασθε ] The former verb denotes only the  hearing , as objective matter of fact: the latter, the  receiving into their minds as subjective matter of belief: see reff.
	 ἀκοῆς παρ  ʼ   ἡμῶν is perhaps to be taken together  of hearing (genitive of apposition)  from us i.e. ‘which you heard from us.’ So Est., Pelt, Olsh., Lünem., all. Or  παραλ  .   παρ  ʼ   ἡμῶν may be taken together, as De W., strongly objecting to the construction ἀκοῆς παρ ʼ ἡμῶν , and understanding by λόγος ἀκοῆς the preached word (  Wort der Künde ). Lünem. answers, that the construction ἀκοῆς παρ ʼ ἡμῶν is unobjectionable, as ἀκούειν παρά τινος occurs John 1:41 , al., and substantives and adjectives often retain in construction the force of the verbs from which they are derived (Kühner, ii. 217, cites from Plato, Alcib. ii. p. 141, οἶμαι δὲ οὐκ ἀνήκοον εἶναι ἔνιά γε χθιζά τε καὶ πρώϊζα γεγενημένα ): that De W.’s rendering is objectionable, because thus no reason is given for separating παρ ʼ ἡμῶν from παραλ ., and because ἀκοῆς is superfluous and vapid if the same is already expressed by παραλαβ . παρ ʼ ἡμῶν . On the other rendering, which is adopted and defended also by Ellicott, there is a significant contrast, St. Paul distinguishing himself and his companions, as mere publishers, from God, the great Source of the Gospel.
	 τ  .   θεοῦ ]  of (i.e. ‘belonging to,’ ‘coming from,’ not ‘  speaking of ,’ as Grot., al., see below)  God (i.e. which is God’s. But we must not supply ‘  as ,’ with Jowett: no subjective view of theirs being implied in these words, but simply the objective fact of their reception of the word from Paul, Silvanus, and Timotheus).
	 ἐδέξ  . ] See above on παραλ .  Ye received it (being)  not (no ‘as’ must be inserted: he is not speaking of the  Thessalonians’ estimate of the word, but (see above) of the fact of their receiving it as it really was)  the word of men (having man for its author),  but as it is in reality, the word of God, which (Bengel, al., take ὅς as referring to θεός : but the Apostle uses always the active ἐνεργεῖν of God, cf. 1 Corinthians 12:6 ; Galatians 2:8 ; Galatians 3:5 ; Ephesians 1:11 ; Php 2:13 al., and (reff.) the middle (not passive) of things)  is also (besides being merely heard)  active in you that believe .