 6 .]  ζητοῦντες belongs to ἐγενήθημεν above.
	 ἐξ ἀνθρώπων , emphatic: τὴν γὰρ ἐκ θεοῦ καὶ ἐζήτουν κ . ἐλάμβανον . Œc. The real distinction here between  ἐκ and  ἀπό seems to be, that ἐκ belongs more to the  abstract ground of the δόξα , ἀπό to the  concrete object from which it was in each case to accrue. This is strictly correct, not, as Ellic., who has misunderstood my distinction, ‘artificial and precarious:’ nor is it ever safe to assume identity of meaning, in St. Paul’s style, of different prepositions, except where the form of the sentence absolutely requires it. The glory which they sought was not at all to come out of human sources, whether actually from the Thessalonians or from any others.
	 δυνάμενοι ]  though we had the power .
	 ἐν βάρει εἶναι ] Thdrt., Est., Grot., Calov., all., refer this to πλεονεξ . mentioned above, and understand it of using the power of living by the gospel, which St. Paul, &c. might have done, but did not: so ἐπιβαρεῖν , 1 Thessalonians 2:9 ; 2 Thessalonians 3:8 ; καταβαρεῖν , 2 Corinthians 12:16 ; ἀβαρῆ ἐμαυτὸν ἐτήρησα , ib. 2 Corinthians 11:9 . But the words are separated from the πλεονεξία by the new idea beginning at ζητοῦντες , to which, and not to the former clause, this is subordinated. I therefore take them with Chrys. (Œc., Thl., undecided), Ambrst., Erasm., Calv., &c., Olsh., De W., Lün., as equivalent to ἐν τιμῇ εἶναι εἰκὸς γὰρ τοὺς παρὰ θεοῦ πρὸς ἀνθρώπους ἀποσταλέντας , ὡσανεὶ ἀπὸ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ νῦν ἥκοντας πρέσβεις , πολλῆς ἀπολαῦσαι τιμῆς . Chr.
	 βάρος is used of importance, dignity, ‘  weight ,’ as we say: e.g. Diod. Sic. iv. 61, ἀπὸ τούτων τῶν χρόνων Ἀθηναῖοι , διὰ τὸ βάρος τῆς πόλεως , φρονήματος ἐνεπίμπλαντο , κ . τῆς τῶν Ἑλλήνων ἡγεμονίας ὠρέχθησαν , and in this sense St. Paul’s Epistles were called βαρεῖαι , 2 Corinthians 10:10 . Cf. also βάρος δόξης , where however βάρος is used  sensu proprio , as opposed to ἐλαφρόν , 2 Corinthians 4:17 . Render therefore,  when we might have stood on our dignity . Heins., Pisc., Hamm., understand the words of ecclesiastical censures ‘quum severitatem exercere apostolicam posset,’ and oppose them to ἐγεν . ἤπιοι below: but see there.
	 ὡς χρ  .   ἀπ  . ] not: ‘  as the other Apostles ’ (Grot., Pelt, referring to 1 Corinthians 9:5 , but ungrammatical), but  as (being)  Apostles of Christ . It is simpler to take ἀπόστολοι here in its wider sense, than to limit the sentence to St. Paul alone.