 53. ]  διὰ παντός  , continually, not ‘  all their time;’ daily, at the hours of prayer: see Acts 1:13-14 ; Acts 3:1 .
	A few words must be appended here on a point which has been much stirred in Germany, even among the more orthodox Commentators; THE HISTORIC REALITY OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE ASCENSION. On those among them who doubt  the fact of an Ascension at all , I have nothing to say, standing as I do altogether on different ground from them.
	 The Lord Himself foretold His Ascension, John 6:62 ; John 20:17 : it was immediately after His disappearance from the earth  expressly announced by the Apostles , Acts 2:33-34 ; Acts 5:31 :  and it continued to be an article of their preaching and teaching , 1 Peter 3:22 ; Ephesians 2:6 ; Ephesians 4:10 ; 1 Timothy 3:16 .  So far should we have been assured of it, had we  not possessed the testimonies of Luke, here and in the Acts: for the fragment super-added to the Gospel of Mark merely  states the fact , not the  manner of it . But, to take first the  a priori view,  is it probable that our Lord would have left so weighty a fact in His history on earth, without witnesses? And might we not have concluded from the wording of John 6:62 , that our Lord must have intended an ascension  in the sight of some of those to whom He spoke , and that the Evangelist himself  gives that hint, by recording those words without comment, that he had seen it?
	Then again, is there any thing in the bodily state of our Lord after His resurrection which raises any even the least difficulty here? He appeared suddenly, and vanished suddenly, when He pleased; when it pleased Him, He ate, He spoke, He walked, but His Body was the Body of the Resurrection; only not yet his σῶμα τῆς δόξης ( Php 3:21 ), because He had  not yet assumed that glory: but that He  could assume it, and did assume it at His Ascension, will be granted by all who believe in Him as the Son of God. So that it seems,  on à priori grounds , probable that,  granted the fact of the Ascension , it did take place in some such manner as our accounts relate:  in the sight of the disciples , and  by the uplifting of the risen Body of the Lord towards that which is to those on this earth the visible heaven .
	This being so, let us now, secondly, regard the matter  à posteriori . We possess two accounts of the circumstances of this ascension, written by the same person, and that person a contemporary of the Apostles themselves. Of the  genuineness of these accounts there never was a doubt. How improbable that Luke should have related  what any Apostles or apostolic persons might have contradicted? How improbable that the universal Church, founded by those who are said to have been eyewitnesses of this event, should have  received these two accounts as authentic, if they were not so? That  these accounts themselves are never referred to in the Epistles, is surely no argument against them. If an occasion had arisen, such as necessitated the writing of 1 Corinthians 15:0 , there can be little doubt that St. Paul would have been as particular in the circumstances of the Ascension, as he has been in those of the Resurrection. The fact is, that by far the greatest difficulty remains to be solved by those who can imagine a myth or fiction on this subject to have arisen in the first age of the Church. Such a supposition is not more repugnant to our Christian faith and reverence, than it is to common sense and historical consistency.