Verse 13. Wherefore — Because ye have such enemies to contend with, take unto you-assume, as provided and prepared for you, the whole armour of God; which armour if you put on and use, you shall be both invulnerable and immortal. The ancient heroes are fabled to have had armour sent to them by the gods; and even the great armour-maker, Vulcan, was reputed to be a god himself. This was fable: What Paul speaks of is reality. Ephesians 6:11.That ye may be able to withstand — That ye may not only stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made you free, but also discomfit all your spiritual foes; and continuing in your ranks, maintain your ground against them, never putting off your armour, but standing always ready prepared to repel any new attack.And having done all, to stand. — Και ἁπαντα κατεργασαμενοι στηναι· rather, And having conquered all, stand: this is a military phrase, and is repeatedly used in this sense by the best Greek writers. So Dionys. Hal. Ant., lib. vi., page 400: Και παντα πολεμια εν ολιγῳ κατεργασαμενοι χρονῳ· "Having in a short time discomfited all our enemies, we returned with numerous captives and much spoil." See many examples in Kypke. By evil day we may understand any time of trouble, affliction, and sore temptation.As there is here allusion to some of the most important parts of the Grecian armour, I shall give a short account of the whole. It consisted properly of two sorts:1. Defensive armour, or that which protected themselves.2. Offensive armour, or that by which they injured their enemies. The apostle refers to both.I. Defensive armour:περικεφαλαια, the HELMET; this was the armour for the head, and was of various forms, and embossed with a great variety of figures. Connected with the helmet was the crest or ridge on the top of the helmet, adorned with several emblematic figures; some for ornament, some to strike terror. For crests on ancient helmets we often see the winged lion, the griffin, chimera, c. St. Paul seems to refer to one which had an emblematical representation of hope.ζωμα, the GIRDLE this went about the loins, and served to brace the armour tight to the body, and to support daggers, short swords, and such like weapons, which were frequently stuck in it. This kind of girdle is in general use among the Asiatic nations to the present day.θωραξ, the BREAST-PLATE; this consisted of two parts, called πτερυγες or wings: one covered the whole region of the thorax or breast, in which the principal viscera of life are contained; and the other covered the back, as far down as the front part extended.κνημιδες, GREAVES or brazen boots, which covered the shin or front of the leg; a kind of solea was often used, which covered the sole, and laced about the instep, and prevented the foot from being wounded by rugged ways, thorns, stones, c.χειριδες, GAUNTLETS a kind of gloves that served to defend the hands, and the arm up to the elbow.ασπις, the clypeus or SHIELD; it was perfectly round, and sometimes made of wood, covered with bullocks' hides; but often made of metal. The aspis or shield of Achilles, made by Vulcan, was composed of five plates, two of brass, two of tin, and one of gold; so Homer, Il. U. v. 270:- γερρων or γερρα, the gerron; a small square shield, used first by the Persians.λαισηιον, LAISEION; a sort of oblong shield, covered with rough hides, or skins with the hair on.πελτη, the PELTA; a small light shield, nearly in the form of a demicrescent, with a small ornament, similar to the recurved leaves of a flower de luce, on the centre of a diagonal edge or straight line; this was the Amazonian shield.θυρεος, the scutum or OBLONG SHIELD; this was always made of wood, and covered with hides. It was exactly in the shape of the laiseion, but differed in size, being much larger, and being covered with hides from which the hair had been taken off. It was called θυρεος from θυρα, a door, which it resembled in its oblong shape; but it was made curved, so as to embrace the whole forepart of the body. The aspis and the thureos were the shields principally in use; the former for light, the latter for heavy armed troops.II. Offensive armour, or weapons; the following were chief:εγχος, enchos, the SPEAR; which was generally a head of brass or iron, with a long shaft of ash.δορυ, the LANCE; differing perhaps little from the former, but in its size and lightness; being a missile used, both by infantry and cavalry, for the purpose of annoying the enemy at a distance.ξιφος, the SWORD; these were of various sizes, and in the beginning all of brass. The swords of Homer's heroes are all of this metal.μαχαιρα, called also a sword, sometimes a knife; it was a short sword, used more frequently by gladiators, or in single combat. What other difference it had from the xiphos I cannot tell.αξινη, from which our word AXE; the common battle-axe.πελεκυς, the BIPEN; a sort of battle-axe, with double face, one opposite to the other.κορυνη, an iron club or mace, much used both among the ancient Greeks and Persians.τοξον, the BOW; with its pharetra or quiver, and its stock or sheaf of arrows.σφενδονη, the SLING; an instrument in the use of which most ancient nations were very expert, particularly the Hebrews and ancient Greeks.The arms and armour mentioned above were not always in use; they were found out and improved by degrees. The account given by Lucretius of the arms of the first inhabitants of the earth is doubtless as correct as it is natural.  De Rerum Nat., lib. v. ver. 1282.  Whilst cruelty was not improved by art, And rage not furnished yet with sword or dart; With fists, or boughs, or stones, the warriors fought; These were the only weapons Nature taught: But when flames burnt the trees and scorched the ground, Then brass appeared, and iron fit to wound. Brass first was used, because the softer ore, And earth's cold veins contained a greater store. CREECH.  I have only to observe farther on this head,1. That the ancient Greeks and Romans went constantly armed;2. That before they engaged they always ate together; and3. That they commenced every attack with prayer to the gods for success.