John 13:29.  For some thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of for the feast; or,  that he should give something to the poor.  On the ‘bag’ here spoken of, see on John 12:6. The first supposition made, that Judas might have gone out to purchase things needed ‘for the feast, ’ is a proof that the feast itself had not begun, or was only beginning. It is important to observe the word ‘feast.’ It is that of John 13:1, and it shows that the disciples expected to partake of the  Paschal Supper   with Jesus. This expectation the Evangelist would in all probability not have communicated to us as he has done had he not known it to be correct. He knows that Jesus partook of the feast; that what He did not partake of was the ‘Passover of the Jews’ (comp. on John 13:1). The words, too, are much more reconcilable with the idea that the feast was just about to be partaken of, than that it was to be eaten twenty-four hours afterwards. On the latter supposition, the ‘more quickly ’ loses all its meaning. On the former it retains its force. The expression here employed supplies therefore a powerful argument for the supposition that the evening on which Jesus and His disciples were thus gathered together was that of the Paschal Supper. It has indeed been urged that, if the Supper took place on the evening of the 14 th, according to sacred calculation, the beginning of the 15 th, such purchases would have been illegal and impossible, the 15 th possessing all the sanctity of a Sabbath. This, however, is hardly a fair representation of the case. There are clear indications both in Scripture (Exodus 12:16; Leviticus 23:7; Luke 23:56) and in the Mishna, that a difference was made between these two days in respect of sanctity, the preparation of food, for example, being expressly allowed on the latter of the two. A rabbinical provision, also, for the procuring of the Paschal lamb when the eve of the Passover fell on the Sabbath, is a proof that no difficulty was experienced on the point when the two days did not coincide (Mishna, treatise Sabbath).
	The second supposition of the disciples points to the same conclusion. They thought that Judas was to give something to the poor; and that it was to be given ‘more quickly.’ This could hardly be mere general charity to the poor. The time was not very suitable for the exercise of such charity, and there could be no call for its being given at once. We are compelled therefore to think not of charity in general, but of that particular aid which, in conformity with the law (Deuteronomy 16:14), was to be given at the Passover to ‘the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow,’ to enable them also to rejoice. Such an interpretation of the words of Jesus on the part of the disciples corresponds much better with the supposition that the feast was about at this moment to be celebrated than that it was to be so the following night.