20. glorifying and praising God,
	c.—The latter word, used of the song of the angels ( :-), and in Luke 19:37
Luke 24:53, leads us to suppose
	that theirs was a song too, probably some canticle from the
	Psalter—meet vehicle for the swelling emotions of their simple
	hearts at what "they had heard and seen." 
	Luke 24:53- :. CIRCUMCISION OF
	CHRIST. 
	Here only recorded, and even here
	merely alluded to, for the sake of the name then given to the holy
	Babe, "JESUS,"
	or SAVIOUR (Matthew 1:21;
	Acts 13:23). Yet in this naming of
	Him "Saviour," in the act of circumcising Him, which was a
	symbolical and bloody removal of the body of sin, we have a tacit
	intimation that they "had need"—as John said of His
	Baptism—rather to be circumcised by Him "with the circumcision
	made without hands, in the putting off of the body [of the sins] of
	the flesh by the circumcision of Christ" (Acts 13:23- :), and that He only "suffered it to be so, because thus
	it became Him to fulfil all righteousness" (Acts 13:23- :). Still the circumcision of Christ had a profound bearing on
	His own work—by few rightly apprehended. For since "he that is
	circumcised is a debtor to do the whole law" (Acts 13:23- :), Jesus thus bore about with Him in His very flesh the seal
	of a voluntary obligation to do the whole law—by Him only possible
	in the flesh since the fall. And as He was "made under the law"
	for no ends of His own, but only "to redeem them that were
	under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons"
	(Galatians 4:4; Galatians 4:5),
	the obedience to which His circumcision pledged Him was a redeeming
	obedience—that of a "Saviour." And, finally, as
	"Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law" by
	"being made a curse for us" (Galatians 4:5- :), we must regard Him, in His circumcision, as brought under
	a palpable pledge to be "obedient unto death, even the death
	of the cross" (Philippians 2:8).
	Philippians 2:8- :. PURIFICATION OF THE
	VIRGIN—PRESENTATION
	OF THE BABE IN THE
	TEMPLE-SCENE
	THERE WITH SIMEON
	AND ANNA.