 23, 24 .]  αὐτὸς δέ contrast to all these feeble endeavours on your own part.
	 εἰρήνη here most probably in its wider sense, as the accomplishment of all these Christian graces, and result of the avoidance of all evil. It seems rather far-fetched to refer it back to 1 Thessalonians 5:13 .
	 ὁλοτελεῖς seems to refer to the entireness of sanctification, which is presently expressed in detail. Jerome, who treats at length of this passage, ad Hedibiam (ep. cxx.) quæst. xii., vol. i. p. 1004, explains it, ‘per omnia vel in omnibus, sive plenos et perfectos:’ and so Pelt, ‘ut fiatis integri:’ and the reviewer of Mr. Jowett in the Journal of S. Lit., April, 1856: ‘sanctify you (to be) entire.’ But I prefer the other interpretation: in which case it = ὅλους .
	 καί introduces the detailed expression of the same wish from the lower side in its effects.
	 ὁλόκληρον ] emphatic predicate, as its position before the article shews:  entire refers to all three following substantives, though agreeing in gender with πνεῦμα , the nearest. Cf. besides reff., Leviticus 23:15 , ἑπτὰ ἑβδομάδας ὁλοκλήρους .
	 τὸ πν  .   κ  .   ἡ ψυχ  .   κ  .   τὸ σῶμα ] τὸ πνεῦμα is the SPIRIT, the highest and distinctive part of man, the immortal and responsible  soul , in our common parlance:  ἡ ψυχή is the lower or animal soul, containing the passions and desires ( αιτία κινήσεως ζωικῆς ζώων , Plato, Deff. p. 411), which we have in common with the brutes, but which in  us is ennobled and drawn up by the πνεῦμα . That St. Paul had these distinctions in mind, is plain (against Jowett) from such places as 1 Corinthians 2:14 . The spirit, that part whereby we are receptive of the Holy Spirit of God, is, in the unspiritual man, crushed down and subordinated to the animal soul ( ψυχή ): he therefore is called ψυχικὸς πνεῦμα μὴ ἔχων , Jude 1:19 ; see also note on 1 Cor. as above.
	 ἀμέμπτως defines and fixes ὁλόκληρον τηρηθ .: that, as Ellic., regarding quantity, this defining quality.
	 ἐν , for it will be  in that day that the result will be seen, that the ὁλοκληρον τηρηθῆναι will be accomplished.