 Wherefore  (οθεν). Old relative adverb (ο and enclitic θεν, whence of place (Matthew 12:44), of source (1 John 2:18), of cause as here and often in Hebrews (Hebrews 3:1; Hebrews 7:25; Hebrews 8:3; Hebrews 9:18; Hebrews 11:19).It behoved him  (ωφειλεν). Imperfect active of οφειλω, old verb to owe, money (Matthew 18:28), service and love (Romans 13:8), duty or obligation as here and often in N.T. (Luke 17:10). Jesus is here the subject and the reference is to the incarnation. Having undertaken the work of redemption (John 3:16), voluntarily (John 10:17), Jesus was under obligation to be properly equipped for that priestly service and sacrifice.In all things  (κατα παντα). Except yielding to sin (Hebrews 4:15) and yet he knew what temptation was, difficult as it may be for us to comprehend that in the Son of God who is also the Son of man (Mark 1:13). Jesus fought through to victory over Satan.To be made like unto his brethren  (τοις αδελφοις ομοιωθηνα). First aorist passive infinitive of ομοιοω, old and common verb from ομοιος (like), as in Matthew 6:8, with the associative instrumental case as here. Christ, our Elder Brother, resembles us in reality (Philippians 2:7 "in the likeness of men") as we shall resemble him in the end (Romans 8:29 "first-born among many brethren"; 1 John 3:2 "like him"), where the same root is used as here (οιωμα, ομοιος). That he might be (ινα γενητα). Purpose clause with ινα and the second aorist middle subjunctive of γινομα, to become, "that he might become." That was only possible by being like his brethren in actual human nature.Merciful and faithful high priest  (ελεημων κα πιστος αρχιερευς). The sudden use of αρχιερευς here for Jesus has been anticipated by Hebrews 1:3; Hebrews 2:9 and see Hebrews 3:1. Jesus as the priest-victim is the chief topic of the Epistle. These two adjectives (ελεημων and πιστος) touch the chief points in the function of the high priest (Hebrews 5:1-10), sympathy and fidelity to God. The Sadducean high priests (Annas and Caiaphas) were political and ecclesiastical tools and puppets out of sympathy with the people and chosen by Rome.In things pertaining to God  (τα προς τον θεον). The adverbial accusative of the article is a common idiom. See the very idiom τα προς τον θεον in Exodus 18:19; Romans 15:17. This use of προς we had already in Hebrews 1:7. On the day of atonement the high priest entered the holy of holies and officiated in behalf of the people.To make propitiation for  (εις το ιλασκεσθα). Purpose clause with εις το and the infinitive (common Greek idiom), here present indirect middle of ιλασκομα, to render propitious to oneself (from ιλαος, Attic ιλεως, gracious). This idea occurs in the LXX (Psalms 65:3), but only here in N.T., though in Luke 18:13 the passive form (ιλασθητ) occurs as in 2 Kings 5:18. In 1 John 2:2 we have ιλασμος used of Christ (cf. Hebrews 7:25). The inscriptions illustrate the meaning in Hebrews 2:17 as well as the LXX. 