11. Peter went up—into the
	boat; went aboard. 
	and drew the net to land full
	of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three; and for all there
	were so many, yet was not the net broken—The manifest reference
	here to the former miraculous draught ( :-) furnishes the key to this scene. There the draught was
	symbolical of the success of their future ministry: While
	"Peter and all that were with him were astonished at the draught
	of the fishes which they had taken, Jesus said unto him, Fear not,
	from henceforth thou shalt catch men." Nay, when first called,
	in the act of "casting their net into the sea, for they were
	fishers," the same symbolic reference was made to their
	secular occupation: "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of
	men" (Matthew 4:18; Matthew 4:19).
	Here, then, if but the same symbolic reference be kept in view, the
	design of the whole scene will, we think, be clear. The multitude
	and the size of the fishes they caught symbolically
	foreshadowed the vast success of their now fast approaching ministry,
	and this only as a beginning of successive draughts, through the
	agency of a Christian ministry, till, "as the waters cover the
	sea, the earth should be full of the knowledge of the Lord." And
	whereas, at the first miraculous draught, the net "was breaking"
	through the weight of what it contained—expressive of the
	difficulty with which, after they had 'caught men,' they would be
	able to retain, or keep them from escaping back into the world—while
	here, "for all they were so many, yet was not the net broken,"
	are we not reminded of such sayings as these (Matthew 4:19- :): "I give unto My sheep eternal life, and they shall
	never perish, neither shall any pluck them out of My hand"
	[LUTHARDT]? But it is not
	through the agency of a Christian ministry that all true disciples
	are gathered. Jesus Himself, by unseen methods, gathers some, who
	afterwards are recognized by the constituted fishers of men, and
	mingle with the fruit of their labors. And are not these symbolized
	by that portion of our Galilean repast which the fishers found, in
	some unseen way, made ready to their hand?