In like manner [ωσαυτως] . The writer's thought is still running upon the public assemblies for worship. Adorn themselves [κοσμειν εαυτας] . Kosmein adorn, o P. Of female adornment, 1 Peter 3:5; Revelation 21:2. In Matthew 25:7, of trimming the lamps. From kosmov order, so that the primary meaning is to arrange. Often in LXX and Class. Prominent in the writer's mind is the attire of women in church assemblies. Paul treats this subject 1 Corinthians 11:5 ff. In modest apparel [εν κατασψολη κοσμιω] . Katastolh N. T. o. Once in LXX, Isaiah 61:3. Opinions differ as to the meaning. Some apparel, others guise or deportment = katasthma demeanour, Titus 2:3. There seems, on the whole, to be no sufficient reason for departing from the rendering of A. V. and Rev. 97 Kosmiw modest, seemly, Past o. Note the word - play, kosmein kosmiw. With shamefacedness and sobriety [μετα αιδους και σωφροσυνης] . Aidwv N. T. o. (aijdouv in Hebrews 12:28 is an incorrect reading). In earlier Greek, as in Homer, it sometimes blends with the sense of aijscunh shame, though used also of the feeling of respectful timidity in the presence of superiors, or of penitent respect toward one who has been wronged (see Homer, 2 1 23). Hence it is connected in Homer with militaly discipline (II 5:531). It is the feeling of a suppliant or an unfortunate in the presence of those from whom he seeks aid; of a younger man toward an older and wiser one. It is a feeling based upon the sense of deficiency, inferiority, or unworthiness. On the other hand, it is the feeling of a superior in position or fortune which goes out to an unfortunate. See Homer, 2 24 208;Obadiah 1:0 388; Soph. Oed. Col. 247. In the Attic period, a distinction was recognised between aijscunh and aijdwv : aijdwv representing a respectful and reverent attitude toward another, while aijscunh was the sense of shame on account of wrong doing. Thus, "one aiJudeitai is respectful to his father, but aijscunetai is ashamed because he has been drunk." 98 Trench (N. T. Synon. § 19) remarks that "aijdwv is the nobler word and implies the nobler motive. In it is involved an innate moral repugnance to the doing of the dishonorable act, which moral repugnance scarcely or not at all exists in the aijscunh. Let the man who is restrained by aijscunh alone be insured against the outward disgrace which he fears his act will entail,. and he will refrain from it no longer." 99 The A. V. shame. facedness is a corruption of the old English shamefastness. So Chaucer : Schamefast chastite. " Knight's T. 2057. Shakespeare : "'Tis a blushing shamefast spirit that mutinies in a man's bosom." Richard 3 1 4. It is one of a large class of words, as steadfast, soothfast, rootfast, masterfast, handfast, bedfast, etc. Shamefaced changes and destroys the original force of the word, which was bound or made fast by an honorable shame. Swfrosunh sobrietys o P. Once in Acts 26:25. The kindred verb swfronein to be of sound mind, Romans 12:3-5 2 Corinthians 5:13; Titus 2:6. Several representatives of this family of words appear in the Pastorals, and with the exception of swfrosunh and swfronein, nowhere else in N. T. Such are swfronizein to be soberminded (Titus 2:4); swfronismov discipline (2 Timothy 1:7); swfronwv soberly (Titus 2:12); swfrwn soberminded (1 Timothy 3:2). The word is compounded of saov or swv safe, sound, and frhn mind. It signifies entire command of the passions and desires; a self - control which holds the rein over these. So Aristotle (Rhet. 1 9) : The virtue by which we hold ourselves toward the pleasures of the body as. the law enjoins. "Comp. 4 Macc. 1 31. Euripides calls it" the fairest gift of the gods "(Med. 632). That it appears so rarely in N. T. is, as Trench remarks," not because more value was attached to it in heathen ethics than in Christian morality, but because it is taken up and transformed into a condition yet higher still, in which a man does not command himself, which is well, but, which is better still, is commanded by God. " The words with shamefastness and sobriety may either be taken directly with adorn themselves, or better perhaps, as indicating moral qualities accompanying (meta with) the modest apparel. Let them adorn themselves in modest apparel, having along with this shamefastness and sobermindedness. With broidered hair [εν πλεγμασιν] . Lit. with plaitinys. N. T. o. Rend. with braided hair. Broidered is a blunder owing to a confusion with broided, the older form of braided. So Chaucer : "Hir yelow heer was broyded in a tresse, Bihinde hir bak, a yerde long, I gesse." Knight's T. 1049 f Costly array [ιματισμω πολυτελει] . Neither word in Paul. Imatismov, signifies clothing in general. Polutelhv costly occurs only three times in N. T.