The doctrinal part of this Epistle was closed at the end of 1 Corinthians 15:0; see the introduction. Before closing the Epistle, Paul adverts to some subjects of a miscellaneous nature, and particularly to the subject of a collection for the poor and persecuted Christians in Judea, on which his heart was much set, and to which he several times refers in his epistles; see the note on 1 Corinthians 16:1. This subject he had suggested to them when he was with them, and they had expressed, some time before, the utmost readiness to make the collection, and Paul had commended their readiness when he was urging the same subject in Macedonia; see 2 Corinthians 9:1-15. It is evident, however, that for some cause, perhaps owing to the divisions and contentions in the church, this collection had not yet been made. Paul, therefore, calls their attention to it, and urges them to make it, and to forward it either by him alone, or with others, whom they might designate, to Judea; 1 Corinthians 16:1-4.In connection with this, he expresses his intention of coming to Corinth, and perhaps of passing the winter with them. He was then in Ephesus. He was expecting to go to Macedonia, probably on the business of the collection. He purposed not to visit them on his way to Macedonia, but on his return. He had formerly intended to pass through Corinth on his way to Macedonia, and had perhaps given them such an intheation of his purpose; 2 Corinthians 1:16-17. But from some cause (see the notes on 2 Corinthians 1:15-23), he tells the Corinthians that he had abandoned the purpose of seeing them on the way to Macedonia, though he still intended to go to Macedonia, and would see them on his return; 1 Corinthians 16:5-7. At that time there was a state of things in Ephesus which required his presence. His labors were greatly blessed; and, as a consequence which often attends the successful preaching of the gospel, there was much opposition.He had resolved, therefore, to remain in Ephesus until Pentecost; 1 Corinthians 16:8-9. In the meantime, to show them his deep interest in them, he informed them that Timothy was coming among them, for whom he asked a kind and cordial reception, and assured them that he had endeavored to persuade Apollos to visit them, but was not able; 1 Corinthians 16:10-12. Paul then urges them to watch, and be firm, and live in love 1 Corinthians 16:13-14; and then besought them to show particular attention to the family of Stephanas, the first-fruits of Achaia 1 Corinthians 16:15-16; and expresses his gratitude that Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus had come to him at Ephesus; 1 Corinthians 16:17-18. They were probably the persons by whom the Corinthians had sent their letter 1 Corinthians 8:1, and by whom Paul sent this Epistle. He then closes the whole epistle with Christian salutations; with an expression of regard in his own handwriting; with a solemn charge to love the Lord Jesus Christ, as the great thing to be done, and with the assurance that, if not done, it would expose the soul to a dreadful curse when the Lord should come; with an invocation of the grace of the Lord Jesus to be with them; and with a tender expression of his own love to them all; 1 Corinthians 16:19-24.