Now concerning the collection for the saints - The use of the article here shows that he had mentioned it to them before, and that it was a subject which they would readily understand. It was not new to them, but it was needful only to give some instructions in regard to the manner in which it should be done, and not in regard to the occasion for the collection, or the duty of making it. Accordingly, all his instructions relate simply to the manner in which the collection should be made. The word rendered “collection” (λογία logia) does not occur anywhere else in the New Testament, and is not found in the classic writers. It is from λέγω legō, to collect, and, undoubtedly, here refers to a contribution, or collection of money for a charitable purpose. The word “saints” (ἁγίους hagious) here refers, doubtless, to “Christians;” to the persecuted Christians in Judea. There were many there; and they were generally poor, and exposed to various trials. In regard to the meaning of this word, and the circumstances and occasion of this collection; see the notes on Romans 15:25-26.As I have given order - (διέταξα dietaxa). As I have directed, enjoined, commanded, arranged. It does not mean that he had assumed the authority to tax them, or that he had commanded them to make a collection, but that he had left directions as to the best manner and time in which it should be done. The collection was voluntary and cheerful in all the churches Romans 15:26-27; 2 Corinthians 9:2; and Paul did not assume authority to impose it on them as a tax. Nor was it necessary. Self-denial and liberality were among the distinguishing virtues of the early Christians; and to be a Christian then implied that a man would freely impart of his property to aid the poor and the needy. The order related solely to the manner of making the collection; and as Paul had suggested one mode to the churches in Galatia, he recommended the same now to the Corinthians.To the churches of Galatia - Galatia was a province in Asia Minor. On its situation, see the note on Acts 16:6. There were evidently several churches planted in that region; see Galatians 1:2. At what time he gave this order to the churches there is not mentioned; though it was doubtless on occasion of a visit to the churches there; see Acts 16:6.