 2 .]  of the doctrine of washings (not  baptisms : βάπτισμ  α is generally the N. T. word for both Christian baptism and that of John. In reff., the word is used as here of washing, or lustration with water. On the meaning, see below. Our first question is, respecting the construction. The words are taken in two other ways besides that given above. 1. Some have taken βαπτισμῶν and διδαχῆς as two distinct genitives: so Chrys, (apparently, for he says, εἰ γὰρ πάλιν αὐτοὺς ἐβάπτισε καὶ ἄνωθεν κατήχησε , καὶ πάλιν ἐξ ἀρχῆς βαπτισθέντες ἐδιδάσκοντο τὰ πρακτέα κ . τ . λ .), an interp. given in Œc., … λόγον · ποῖον δὴ τοῦτον ; τὸν τῶν βαπτισμῶν καὶ διδαχῆς καὶ ἐπιθέσεως τῶν χειρῶν κ . τ . λ .: and so Cajetan, Luther, Semler, Michaelis, al., and De Wette. But this seems very improbable. The rhythm of the sentence, which in all the other cases has  two substantives in a clause, seems to forbid insulating the two words and forming a clause out of each: besides which, a double objection arises from the words themselves; that thus the plural βαπτισμ  ῶν would not be accounted for, and that thus also διδαχή would have to bear a meaning which it is very doubtful if it can bear. 2. The two substantives being taken together,  διδαχῆς is made the genitive dependent on  βαπτισμῶν , those baptisms which were accompanied with διδαχή , in distinction from those other washings, which were not so accompanied. This view is taken by Bengel (“ β . δ . erant baptismi quos qui suscipiebant, doctrinæ sacræ Judæorum sese addicebant; itaque adjecto διδαχῆς distinguuntur a lotionibus cæteris leviticis”), Winer (making however the distinction between Christian and Jewish baptism, § 30. 3, Rem. 4, edn. 6), Michaelis, al. Still it cannot be denied that this would be a very strange expression, and that thus the plur. βαπτισμῶν would be more unaccountable than ever, seeing that it would apply to one kind of baptism only, viz. the Christian. As regards the plur. βαπτισμ  ῶν , it has been very variously taken: by some as put for the singular, in which number the Syr. translates it: by Chrys. (to whom Calv. assents), as implying the repetition of baptism involved in the  πάλιν , τί αὐτὸ πληθυντικῶς εἶπε ; διὰ τὸ εἰπεῖν , μὴ πάλιν θεμ . καταβ . μετανοίας . εἰ γὰρ πάλιν αὐτοὺς ἐβάπτισε , καὶ ἄνωθεν κατήχησε , καὶ πάλιν ἐξ ἀρχῆς βαπτισθέντες ἐδιδάσκοντο τἀ πρακτέα , καὶ τὰ μὴ πρακτέα , διηνεκῶς ἔμελλον ἀδιόρθωτοι μένειν : by Thl. and Œc. as pointing to a practice among the Hebrews of frequently repeating baptism ( ἴσως δὲ οὗτοι ὡς ἔτι τοῦ νόμου ἀντεχόμενοι πολλοὺς βαπτισμοὺς Ἰουδαϊκῶς καὶ ἐν τῇ χάριτι ἐπρέσβευον , Thl.): by others, as referring to the threefold immersion in baptism: by Grot., al., “de duplice baptismo, interiore et exteriore:” by Thdrt. of the plurality of the recipients, ἐπειδὴ πολλοὶ τῆς τοῦ βαπτίσματος ἀπολαύουσι χάριτος : so Primas., Beza, Erasm. Schmid. But none of these seem to reach the point so well as that given above, which includes in the idea those various washings which were under the law, the baptism of John and even Christian baptism also perhaps included, the nature of which, and their distinctions from one another, would naturally be one of the fundamental and primary objects of teaching to Hebrew converts. This meaning, which is that of Jac. Cappellus, Seb. Schmidt, Schöttg., Wolf, al., and Böhme, Kuinoel, Klee, Bleek, Tholuck, al., is strongly combated by Lünemann, and the insecurity of the consideration arising from the different form of βαπτισ  μός and  -  μα is urged on the ground that the Writer never uses βάπτισμα : but against this we may fairly allege that he  does use βαπτισμ  ός again (ch. Heb 9:10 ), and in the ordinary sense of Jewish washings, not in that of Christian baptism. When it is objected to the view (as e. g. by Stuart) that the doctrine of Jewish washings would have had nothing to do with the elements of Christian teaching, we may fairly say that such objection is brought in mere thoughtlessness. The converts being Jews, their first and most obviously elementary instruction would be, the teaching them the typical significance of their own ceremonial law in its Christian fulfilment. It is obvious from what has been above said, that we must not, as Erasm., Calv., Beza, Schlichting, al., understand “the teaching given as  introductory to baptism :” Calvin identifying it with the other genitive terms of the sentence: “Quæ enim baptismatis est doctrina, nisi quam hic recenset de fide in Deum, de pœnitentia et de judicio, ac similibus?”)  and of laying on of hands (first, it is almost necessary, on account of the transposed place of βαπτισμῶν , and the coupling by  τε , to understand ἐπιθέσεώς τε as gen. after διδαχῆς , and not after θεμέλιον (of the succeeding genitives, see below). And thus the doctrine of laying on of hands, like that of washings, not being confined to any one special rite, will mean, the reference and import of all that imposition of hands which was practised under the law, and found in some cases its continuance under the gospel. By laying on of hands, the sick were healed, Mark 16:18 ; Acts 9:12 ; Acts 9:17 ; Acts 28:8 ; cf. 2 Kings 5:11 ; Mat 9:18 al.; officers and teachers of the Church were admitted to their calling, Acts 6:6 ; Acts 13:3 , 1 Timothy 4:14 ; 1 Timothy 5:22 ; Numbers 8:10 ; Numbers 27:18 ; Numbers 27:23 ; Deuteronomy 34:9 ; converts were fully admitted into the Christian Church after baptism, Acts 8:17 ; Acts 19:6 :2 Timothy 1:6 . And there can be little doubt that it is mainly to this last that the attention of the readers is here called, as the Writer is speaking of the beginning of Christian teaching: so Chrys., οὕτω γὰρ τὸ πνεῦμα ἐλάμβανον : and Thdrt., διὰ τῆς ἱερατικῆς χειρὸς ὑποδέχονται τὴν χάριν τοῦ πνεύματος . Some have thought that the principal reference is to the laying of hands on the scapegoat as a type of our Lord’s taking our sins upon Him: but this is unlikely)  and of resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment (these words, as well as the foregoing clause, depend on διδαχῆς . This would be evident, were it merely for the sense, seeing that it is not the facts themselves of the resurrection and the judgment which would be laid as the foundation of the τοῦ χριστοῦ λὁγος , but the  doctrine of these, that apprehension and recognition of them consequent on their being  taught , as διδαχή implies. And then notice, that these also were points of Jewish doctrine, confirmed and brought into clearer light by the Gospel. Some, as Est., Schlicht., Schöttg., Michaelis, Storr, al., have supposed  ἀναστ  .   νεκρῶν to refer only to the righteous, as in John 6:39-40 ; John 6:44 ; John 6:54 ,  κρίματος αἰωνίου only to the wicked. But it is more probable, in a passage of such very general reference, that the Writer speaks generally, without any such distinction here in view, of the two doctrines: of the ἀνάστασις ζωῆς and the ἀνάστασις κρίσεως of John 5:29 . And it is probable that he uses  κρίματος in the same indefinite meaning. Cf. ref. Acts.
	 κρῖμα , properly the  result of κρίσις , gradually became in later Greek, as other substantives in - μα , confounded with the  process in σις , and the two used convertibly. Our Writer has both: cf. ch. Hebrews 10:27 .
	 αἰωνίου , probably as part of the proceedings of eternity, and thus bearing the character and stamp of eternal: or perhaps as Thl., τουτέστι , τῆς κρίσεως τῆς αἰώνια διδούσης ἢ ἀγαθὰ ἢ κολάσεις . So Erasm. (par.) and many others).