 7, 8 .]  Illustration of the last position , by a contrast between profitable and unprofitable land.  For land which has drunk in (“ γῆ , indefinite: ἡ πιοῦσα , defined as to the kind of γῆ meant. So Galatians 2:20 ; Galatians 3:21 ; Galatians 4:27 ; Xen. Hell. i. 10. 1, ἀποτέμνεται χεὶρ ἡ δεξιά , ‘a hand, namely, the right.’ ” Delitzsch)  the rain frequently coming on it (so far, is the  subject of both sides of the hypothesis: and not the word γῆ only. This is necessitated by the omission of the article at ἐκφέρουσα . The E. V., “But that which beareth thorns” &c., would require ἡ δὲ ἐκφέρουσα . Besides which, the E. V. has neglected the aorist part. here, in rendering, “  the earth which drinketh in .” The drinking in the rain is an act prior to both the hypotheses: the participles which convey the hypothesis itself being present.
	The verb  πίνειν is not uncommonly used of land receiving rain, both in LXX (ref.), and classical writers: as, besides Herod. in reff., Anacreon xix. 1, ἡ γῆ μέλαινα πίνει : Virg. Ecl. iii. 111, “sat prata biberunt:” Georg. iv. 32. Here it implies not only that the earth has  received the rain, but that it has  taken it in , sucked it in, “being no impenetrable rocky soil, from which the rain runs off without sinking in. And thus it is an appropriate figure for men who have really taken into themselves the word of God, and experienced its power” (Bl.), and so furnishes an explanation of Hebrews 6:4-5 , as well as being explained by them. In the interpretation,  ὑετός must not be too strictly confined to “teaching,” as Chrys., Thl., Œc., but taken as widely as the participial clauses before extend, as importing all spiritual influences whatever. Notice ἐπ ʼ αὐτ  ῆς , not ἐπ ʼ αὐτ  ήν , as we should expect of the falling rain: the gen. being used to indicate that the rain lies and abides over it, not running off, nor merely falling towards, but covering, ready to be sucked in)  and (  καί serves, after the general clause, γῆ … ὑετόν , common to both alternatives, to introduce the first of them. We should more naturally expect τίκτουσα μέν to answer to ἐκφέρουσα δέ )  brings forth (see reff. and Wetst.)  plants (  βοτάνη , from βόσκω , properly fodder, provender, for man or beast: generally used for grass, or corn, or any kind of green herb: so in reff. Bl. quotes from an Hexaplar transl. of Habakkuk 3:17 (LXX, τὰ πεδία οὐ ποιήσει βρῶσιν ), ἡ δὲ γῆ μὴ ἐκθάλῃ βοτάνην )  fit (  εὕθετος , a word peculiar to St. Luke elsewhere in N. T., is found in the later classics in this sense of ‘aptus,’  convenient . So Diod. Sic. ii. 57, πηγὰς .… εἰς λουτρὰ κ . κόπων ἀφαίρεσιν εὐθέτους : Dion. Hal. i. p. 10, χώρα εἰς νομὰς εὔθετος : Polyb. xxvi. 5. 6, πρὸς πᾶσαν σωματικὴν χρείαν .… εὔθετος )  for those (it is a question whether  ἐκείνοις depends on εὔθετος or on τίκτουσα . It will be seen that in the instances above quoted εὔθετος is followed by εἰς or πρός and  not by a dative . But the construction with a dative is not altogether unprecedented: e. g. besides Luke 9:62 , Nicolaus in Stob. Florileg. xiv. 7, οἶμαι δ ʼ ἐμαυτὸν εὔθετον τῷ πράγματι , παῖδες , γεγονέναι : and the dative, whether after one or the other, is a dativus commodi, not equivalent, if taken after εὔθετον , to πρὸς ἐκείνους , but to πρὸς βρῶσιν ἐκείνοις . To the sense, it is quite indifferent which connexion we take. The sentence is perhaps better balanced by joining ἐκείνοις with τίκτουσα , τίκτουσα βοτάνην εὔθετον | ἐκείνοις δι ʼ οὒς καὶ γεωργεῖται flowing more evenly than τίκτουσα βοτάνην | εὔθετον ἐκείνοις δι ʼ οὒς καὶ γεωργεῖται . The absolute use of εὅθετον need make no difficulty: cf. ref. Ps., προσεύξεται πρός σε πᾶς ὅσιος ἐν καιρῷ εὐθέτῳ : Diod. Sic. v. 37, κατασκευάζουσιν εὔθετον τὴν πρὸς τὰς ἐργασίας πραγματείαν : also ref. Susan.),  on whose account (the E. V. following the vulg. (“a quibus”), and Luther, Beza (“per quos”), Calv. (“quorum opera”), Erasm. (par.), al., render ungrammatically, “  by whom ,” δι ʼ ὧν or ὑφ ʼ ὧν . It is a curious sign of the scholarship of Owen’s days, that he says, “ διὰ with an accusative case is not unfrequently put for the genitive.… unquestionable instances of this may be given, and amongst them that of Demosth. Olynth. i. is eminent: καὶ θεωρεῖ τὸν τρόπον δι ʼ ὃν μέγας γέγονεν ἀσθενὴς ὢν τὸ κατ ʼ ἀρχὰς Φίλιππος :” as if this were not a strictly normal use of διὰ with the accusative. Tert [33] and the old Latin version in D, have it right, “  propter quos :” and Œc. says, γεωργεῖται δὲ δηλονότι εἰς σωτηρίαν κ . κέρδος αὐτῶν ἐκείνων τῶν καρποφορούντων . On the sense, see below)  also (this  καί is common in cases where some special reference of an already patent fact is adduced: so in ref., τοιοῦτος γὰρ ἡμῖν καὶ ἔπρεπεν ἀρχιερεύς : q. d. ‘another consideration is’ &c. Schlichting, al. have mistaken its sense, and regarded it as introducing γεωργεῖται as an additional particular over and above the πιεῖν τὸν ὑετόν : “Ait autem  et colitur, ut ad imbrium irrigationem etiam terræ istius diligentem accedere culturam ostendat”)  it is tilled (  who are ἐκεῖνοι δι ʼ οὓς καὶ γεωργεῖται , in the interpretation? Thl. mentions two references: 1. to the men themselves: καὶ γὰρ αὐτοὶ ἐκεῖνοι οἱ καρποφοροῦντες τὴν ἀρετὴν ἀπολαύσουσι ταύτης : 2. to their teachers: καὶ γὰρ καὶ δι ʼ αὐτοὺς γεωργεῖται ἡ ἀρίστη πολιτεία , ὡς καὶ αὐτῶν μετεχόντων τῆς τῶν μαθητῶν ἀρετῆς . But both these fall short of the mark: and there can be no doubt that if, as is probable, the features of the parable are to be traced in the interpretation, we must understand GOD as the owner of the land which is tilled, and the tillers are the teachers and preachers of the gospel. So 1 Corinthians 3:9 , θεοῦ γεώργιον .… ἐστε ),  partakes of (the verb is often used without any necessary reference to  others also being sharers: see reff.)  blessing (Schlichting’s remark is good: that the Writer has not so much the figure in mind, as the thing figured, viz. the men to whom, already having, more is given: and he refers to John 15:2 , πᾶν τὸ καρπὸν φέρον , καθαίρει αὐτὸ ἵνα καρπὸν πλείονα φέρῃ )  from God (  ἀπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ may be joined either with εὐλογίας or with μεταλαμβάνει . It is no objection to the former construction that it is not  τῆς ἀπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ : the insertion of the art. would in fact encumber the sentence. And this is the connexion which seems to me the more probable; it has a share in εὐλογία ἀπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ . So also Delitzsch: Bleek and Lünemann support the other):  but if it bear (Chrys., Œc., Thl., and some of the moderns, a-Lapide, Grot., al., have drawn a distinction between  ἐκφέρουσα and  τίκτουσα : ὅρα πῶς ἐπὶ τῶν ἀκανθῶν οὐκ εἶπε τίκτουσα ἀκάνθας , οὐδὲ χρησίμῳ τούτῳ ὀνόματι ἐχρήσατο , ἀλλὰ τί ; ἐκφέρουσα ἀκάνθας , ὡς ἂν εἴποι τις ἐκβράσσουσα , ἐκβάλλουσα . But it has been observed by Elsner, Raphel, Wetst., al. that ἐκφέρειν is a general word for to bring forth fruit: e. g. Herod. i. 193, ἔστι δὲ χωρέων αὕτη ἁπασέων μακρῷ ἀρίστη .… Δήμητρος καρπὸν ἐκφέρειν . And see reff. LXX and other examples in Bleek and Wetst.)  thorns and thistles (see reff.),  is accounted worthless (‘  reproba ,’ ‘  rejectanea ,’ tried and found wanting. It occurs in the N. T. elsewhere only in St. Paul, 7 times: see reff. Being thus rejected, it gets no share of God’s blessing)  and nigh unto cursing (see reff.: and compare Acts 9:38 ; Acts 27:8 , for the dative usage of  ἐγγύς . There appears here to be an allusion to Genesis 3:17-18 , ἐπικατάρατος ἡ γῆ ἐν τοῖς ἔργοις σου .… ἀκάνθας καὶ τριβόλους ἀνατελεῖ σοι . Chrys. has noticed that in ἐγγύς there is a softening of the severity of the declaration: βαβαί , πόσην ἔχει παραμυθίαν ὁ λόγος . κατάρας μὲν εἶπεν ἐγγύς , οὐ κατάρα · ὁ δὲ μηδέπω εἰς κατάραν ἐμπεσὼν ἀλλ ʼ ἐγγὺς γενόμενος καὶ μακρὰν γενέσθαι δυνήσεται ),  of which the end is unto burning . There is considerable doubt both as to the connexion, and as to the interpretation of the sense when obtained. To what does  ἧς belong? to γῆς , or to κατάρας ? The latter is taken by (not Erasm. (par.), as so cited by Bleek: for it runs, “exsecrationi divinæ: cujus exitus huc tendit, non ut demetatur, sed ut exuratur:” where the passives make it almost necessary to apply “cujus” not to the curse, but to the land), Camerarius, Bleek, al.: the end, result, of which curse is that it tends to burning. But it does not seem to me that this would have been thus expressed. κατάρας holds a very subordinate predicatory place: and it is hardly likely that it should be taken up again and made the subject of a relative: especially in the presence of such phrases as reff. 2 Cor., Phil., and 1 Pet., in all of which the gen. aft. τέλος is of the finished, not of the finishing. I would therefore, with Chrys. ( δηλῶν ὅτι ἐὰν μέχρι τέλους οὕτως ἐπιμείνῃ , τούτῳ ( τοῦτο ?) πείσεται ), Thl. ( οὐκ εἶπεν ἣ κατακαυθήσεται , ἀλλ ʼ ἧς τὸ τέλ . εἰς κ ., τουτέστιν , ἐὰν κ . τ . λ . as Chrys.), Luth., Bengel, and most Commentators (including Delitzsch), refer ἧς to γῆς . But then, with what view will this ultimate burning take place? Some have said, with a salutary end, as in Virg. Georg. i. 84 93 (“Sæpe etiam steriles incendere profuit agros, Atque levem stipulam crepitantibus urere flammis: Sive inde occultas vires et pabula terræ Pinguia concipiunt, sive illis omne per ignem Excoquitur vitium atque exsudat inutilis humor.” See also Plin. H.N. xviii.39 (72)). Strange to say, this meaning is adopted, not by Roman-Catholic Commentators, but by such as Schlichting, Stuart (apparently: “to have all its worthless productions consumed”), Dr. Bloomfield, al.: not seeing, except Schlichting, who attempts to repudiate it (“nam quod terra sterilis per incendium non corrumpatur sed corrigatur, hoc in similitudine hac non attenditur”), that the inevitable conclusion from such an acceptation would be, the existence of purgatorial fire. The reference clearly is, as the whole context and the words ἧς τέλος  εἰς shew, not to purifying, but to consuming fire: as in ch. Hebrews 10:26-27 , where the same ultimate fear is described as issuing in πυρὸς ζῆλος ἐσθίειν μέλλοντος τοὺς ὑπεναντίους . So in Deuteronomy 29:22-23 , the curse of the apostate land is described as consisting in “brimstone, and salt, and burning; that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah,” &c. And this destruction by burning is quite according to N. T. analogy: e. g. John 15:6 ; Matthew 3:10 ; Matthew 3:12 ; Matthew 7:19 ; Matthew 13:30 ; Matthew 13:40 ff.
	 [33]  Tertullian , 200
	 εἰς καῦσιν is said by Kuin., Ebrard, al. to be a Hebraism for καῦσις . But this has been satisfactorily disproved by Winer, Gramm. § 29. 3 Remark. Chrys., continuing the same strain as above on  κατάρας ἐγγύς , beautifully concludes, ὥστε , ἐὰν ἐκτέμωμεν κ . κατακαύσωμεν τὰς ἀκάνθας , δυνησόμεθα τῶν μυρίων ἀπολαῦσαι ἀγαθῶν , κ . γενέσθαι δόκιμοι , κ . εὐλογίας μετασχεῖν . And so Œc., Thl., Primas. The stronger Calvinistic interpreters regard ἐγγύς as betokening the  near approach of the judgment; as in  ἤγγικεν ἡ βας . τῶν οὐρ .; and some refer the whole to the destruction of Jerusalem: so Bengel: “Strictura prophetica, per paucis annis ante  combustam urbem Hierosolymorum. Perditissimi Judæorum erant, qui in urbe, et circum eam, fidei repugnabant.”