 5 .]  and have tasted (see above:  γευς  . is not emphatic here, as before, but having once borne its emphatic  meaning , carries it again, in its repetition. On the government, see below)  the good word of God and the powers of the world to come (Bengel, al. wish to establish a distinction here between the senses of the accus. and gen. government by γεύεσθαι . “Alter partem denotat: nam gustum Christi, doni cœlestis, non exhaurimus in hac vita: alter plus dicit, quatenus verbi Dei prædicati gustus totus ad hanc vitam pertinet, quanquam eidem verbo futuri virtutes sæculi annectuntur.” But thus even Bengel’s own account of the distinction halts on one foot; and moreover the distinction itself is untenable, witness ὡς δὲ ἐγεύσατο τὸ ὕδωρ οἶνον γεγενημένον , ref. John: this being merely as it would appear a Hellenistic impropriety, not found in good Greek. (Another distinction is made by Delitzsch, h. l., from Kühner, § 526, Anm. 3, al.; that words of bodily partaking take a gen. in a partitive sense, but an acc. where the object partaken is either considered as a whole, or is designated materially, or as an accustomed means of nourishment. But this also fails in the above instance, however true in general.) Here, as Bleek, after Böhme, suggests, the acc. perhaps was adopted to avoid the ambiguity which would have arisen, in καλοῦ γευσαμένους θεοῦ ῥήματος , as to whether καλοῦ agreed with θεοῦ or with ῥήματος . But now,  what are the things spoken of? What is  καλὸν θεοῦ ῥῆμα ? The epithet is frequently applied to the word of God: see reff.: and usually with reference to its quickening, comforting, strengthening power, as sent or spoken by God to men. And in consequence it has been taken here to signify the comforting portion of the gospel, its promises: so Thdrt., τὴν ὑπόσχεσιν τῶν ἀγαθῶν : Est., Schlicht., Grot., Kuinoel, Thol., and many others. Others understand it more generally, as Chrys. ( τὴν διδασκαλίαν ἐνταῦθα λέγει ), Thl. ( περὶ πάσης πνευματικῆς διδασκαλίας τοῦτό φησι ), Œc. ( τὴν περὶ τοῦ χριστοῦ διδασκαλίαν ), Primas., Faber Stapul., Corn. a-Lap., Bengel, al. This latter, or that modification of it which understands by ῥῆμα θεοῦ the wholesome and soul-preserving utterance of God in the gospel, seems to me better than the meaning taken by Bleek, who thinks ῥῆμα to be a personified attribute of God, as λόγος τοῦ θ . ch. Hebrews 4:12 , and the gospel, with its comforting message, an emanation from it, on which the soul feeds. Certainly the passage which he cites from Philo is much to the point: ζητήσαντες καὶ τί τὸ τρέφον ἐστὶ τὴν ψυχὴν … εὗρον μαθόντες ῥῆμα θεοῦ καὶ λόγον θεοῦ , ἀφ ʼ οὗ πᾶσαι παιδεῖαι καὶ σοφίαι ῥέουσιν ἀένναοι , De Profug. § 25, vol. i. p. 566, said of the Israelites in the wilderness. See also Allegor. iii. § 60 f. p. 121 f., where the manna is said to be designated by the ῥῆμα θεοῦ and λόγος θεοῦ , with reference to Exodus 16:16 , and to Deuteronomy 8:3 . It certainly is not improbable that in using the expression  τὸ καλὸν γευσαμένους θεοῦ ῥῆμα , the Writer may have had in view this latter text, ἐπὶ παντὶ ῥήματι τῷ ἐκπορευομένῳ διὰ στόματος θεοῦ ζήσεται ὁ ἄνθρωπος : but the supposed personification does not seem to suit the context.
	Then it is a far more debated question, what is meant by  δυνάμεις μέλλοντος αἰῶνος . Some have said, those  powerful foretastes of glory which belong indeed to the future state in their fulness, but are vouchsafed to believers here: so Schlichting, interpreting γεύσασθαι of this foretaste; so Primas., Seb. Schmidt, al. But most Commentators, and rightly, take αἰὼν μέλλων as equivalent to οἰκουμένη μέλλουσα ch. Hebrews 2:5 (where see note), and as designating the Christian times, agreeably to that name of Christ in ref. Isa., πατὴρ τοῦ μέλλοντος αἰῶνος . Then the δυνάμεις of this ‘world to come’ will be as in ch. Hebrews 2:4 , where we have ποικίλαι δυνάμεις enumerated with σημείοις τε καὶ τέρασιν and πνεύματος ἁγίου μερισμοῖς , as God’s testimonies to the gospel. Thus they would mean the χαρίσματα , given by the Spirit in measure to all who believed, “distributing severally to every man as He will.” We need not necessarily limit these to external miraculous powers, or even προφητεία and the like: but surely may include in them spiritual powers bestowed in virtue of the indwelling Spirit to arm the Christian for his conflict with sin, the world, and the devil.
	The ancients were very uncertain in their exegesis of the words: Chrys., τίνας λέγει δυνάμεις ; ἢ τὸ θαύματα ἐπιτελεῖν , ἢ τὸν ἀῤῥαβῶνα τοῦ πνεύματος . And some way on, he says, εἰπὼν δὲ Καλ . γευς . θεοῦ ῥ . δυνάμ . τε αἰῶνος μέλλ ., οὐκ ἀποκαλύπτει αὐτό , ἀλλ ʼ αἰνίττεται , καὶ μονονουχὶ ταῦτα λέγει · ὅτι τὸ ζῆν ὡς ἀγγέλους , τὸ μηδενὸς δεῖσθαι τῶν ἐνταῦθα , τὸ εἰδέναι ὅτι τῆς τῶς μελλόντων αἰώνων ἀπολαύσεως πρόξενος ἡμῖν ἡ υἱοθεσία γίνεται , τὸ εἰς τὰ ἄδυτα ἐκεῖνα εἰσελθεῖν προσδοκᾶν , διὰ τοῦ πνεύματός ἐστι ταῦτα μαθεῖν . τί ἐστι , δυνάμεις τε τοῦ μέλλοντος αἰῶνος ; ἡ ζωὴ ἡ αἰώνιος , ἡ ἀγγελικὴ διαγωγή . τούτων ἤδη τὸν ἀῤῥαβῶνα ἐλάβομεν διὰ τῆς πίστεως παρὰ τοῦ πνεύματος . Thdrt., δυνάμεις δὲ μ . αἰ . τὸ βάπτισμα προσηγόρευσε κ . τὴν χάριν τοῦ πνεύματος · διὰ τούτων γὰρ δυνατὸν τῶν ἐπηγγελμένων τυχεῖν ἀγαθῶν . Photius, ἀντὶ τοῦ , ἃ δύναται ὁ μέλλων αἰὼν ἐκμαθόντας , by catechesis, for so he interprets γευσαμένους ),