 10 .]  For God is not unjust , (so as)  to forget (first, of the construction,  ἄδικος ἐπιλαθέσθαι . Cf. οὐχ ἑαυτὸν ἐδόξασεν γενηθῆναι ἀρχιερέα , ch. Hebrews 5:5 ; it is epexegetic, and designates the act whereby or wherein the quality just predicated would be shewn. The aor.  ἐπιλαθέσθαι must not be rendered “ut oblitus sit,” “so that He should have forgotten,” as Seb. Schmidt: neither can we say with Kühner, § 445. 2, that there are infinitives in which all relation of time is lost, and the aor. = the pres.: but the distinction seems to be as in other cases where aorists and presents appear to be convertibly put, that whenever the act is one admitting of being treated as a momentary one, or of being grasped as a whole, the  aor . is used: when, on the other hand, habit, or endurance is indicated, the  present . This is strikingly shewn in one of Kühner’s own examples: Xen. Cyr. v. 1. 2, καλέσας ὁ Κῦρος Ἀράσπην Μῆδον , τοῦτον ἐκέλευσε  διαφυλάξαι αὐτῷ τήν τε γυναῖκα κ . τὴν σκηνήν here is the whole act: as we say ‘  to keep safe ,’ and αὐτῷ binds the office as one solemn duty on Araspes; but below, ib. 3, we have, ταύτην οὖν ἐκέλευσεν ὁ Κῦρος  διαφυλάσσειν τὸν Ἀράσπην , ἕως ἂν αὐτὸς λάβῃ , where by ἕως ἄν , the duration of time is introduced, and the habitual present rendered necessary. Here, the  whole forgetfulness would be one act of oblivion, which the aor. expresses. There are many places in the O. T. where forgetfulness on the part of God is thus denied: cf. Psalms 9:12 ; Psalms 9:18 ; Psalms 10:12 ; Amos 8:7 ; or deprecated, cf. 1 Samuel 1:11 ; Psalms 13:1 ; Psalms 42:9 ; Psalms 44:24 ; Psalms 74:19 ; Psalms 74:23 ; Isaiah 49:14 ff.: Lam 5:20 al.)  your work (i. e. your whole Christian life of active obedience: so  ἔργον absolutely in the passage 1 Corinthians 3:13-15 ; so besides reff., in Galatians 6:4 , τὸ δὲ ἔργον ἑαυτοῦ δοκιμαζέτω ἕκαστος . See this  work somewhat specified in ch. Hebrews 10:32-34 . It is a general term, including the labours of love mentioned below)  and the love (the expressions nearly resemble those in 1 Thessalonians 1:3 , from which the τοῦ κόπου of the rec. seems to have come)  which ye shewed (  ἐνδείκνυμαι (see reff.) is used in classical Greek in this same sense, of exhibiting a quality or attribute of character: Aristoph. Plut. 785, ἐνδεικνύμενος εὔνοιαν : Plut. Cicero, p. 877, πᾶσαν ἐνδεικνύμενοι φιλοφροσύνην . See more examples in Bleek: and note on Ephesians 2:7 . Here, as there, the dynamic middle gives the personal reference: but not here, as there, conscious and predetermined)  towards His name ( ἧς ἐνεδ . φησιν οὐχ ἁπλῶς εἰς τοὺς ἁγίους , ἀλλ ʼ εἰς τὸν θεόν · τοῦτο γάρ ἐστιν εἰς τὸ ὄνομα αὐτοῦ , ὡσεὶ ἔλεγε · διὰ τὸ ὄνομα αὐτοῦ πάντα πεποιήκατε . ὁ τοίνυν τοσαύτης παρ ʼ ὑμῶν ἀπολαύων σπουδῆς κ . ἀγάπης , οὐ καταφρονήσει ποτὲ ὑμῶν οὐδὲ ἐπιλήσεται . Chrys. and similarly Œc. and Thl., Erasm., Calv., Luther, Justiniani, Seb. Schmidt, De W., al. And this seems better than with D-lat. and the vulg. (“  in nomine ejus or  ipsius ”), and most Commentators, to suppose εἰς τὸ ὄν . αὐτ . a Hebraism for ἐν , or ἐπί , τῷ ὀνόματι αὐτ .: see Matthew 10:41-42 ; Matthew 18:20 . The  ἅγιοι were those who were called by His name, so that beneficence towards them was in fact shewn towards His name.  αὐτοῦ refers to God, as the antecedent expressed above: not to Christ, as Ernesti, Stuart (alt.), al.)  in having ministered (probably, see ref. and 2 Corinthians 8:4 ; 2 Corinthians 8:19-20 ; 2 Corinthians 9:1 ; Acts 11:29 , if not exclusively, yet principally, in eleemosynary bestowals. It may hence perhaps be surmised that these Hebrews did not live in Judæa: see Prolegg. § ii. 15)  to the saints, and still ministering ( ὅρα δὲ πῶς θεραπεύει αὐτούς · οὐ γὰρ εἶπε διακονήσαντες και ἔστη , ἀλλὰ προσέθηκε καὶ διακονοῦντες , τουτέστι , καὶ ἔτι αὐτὸ ποιοῦντες . Thl. There is a fine touch here of that delicate compliment, which is also characteristic of St. Paul. “Necdum hæc pietas in vobis cessavit, licet forte remiserit,” as Schlichting: but the Writer leaves the defect to be understood and states the excellency at its utmost. On the Christian doctrine of reward, as declared in this passage, see note in Delitzsch, p. 242).