 20 .]  where (  ὅπου is found in places where ὅποι ought rightly to stand, as in our own common phrase, ‘  Where are you going?’ It is in fact a constructio prægnans, become a familiar idiom. So Xen. Ages. vi. 6, ἄδηλος γιγνόμενος , ὅπου τε εἴη καὶ ὅπου ἴοι . See also reff.)  as forerunner (not “  the forerunner ” as E. V.: the omission of the art. necessarily places  πρόδρομος in the situation of predicate)  on our behalf (it is disputed whether  ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν is to be joined with πρόδρομος or with εἰσῆλθεν . Œc. and Thl. adopt the former: Thl. explaining very fully: οὐκ ἠρκέσθη δὲ εἰπὼν  πρόδρομος , ἀλλὰ προσέθηκε καὶ τὸ  ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν  , εἰς πλείω πίστωσιν , ὡσανεὶ τοῦτο λέγων · οὐκ αὐτὸς ἐδεῖτο τοῦ ἐκεῖσε ἐλθεῖν · πῶς γάρ , θεὸς ὤν ; ἀλλ ʼ ὥσπερ σάρκα δι ʼ ἡμᾶς ἔλαβεν , οὕτω καὶ δἰ ἡμᾶς εἰσῆλθεν ἐσώτερον τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , ἵνα ἡμῖν ἀνοίξῃ τὴν ὁδόν . ὥστε ἀναγκαίως εἰσελευσόμεθα καὶ αὐτοί . ἢ τὸ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν ἀντὶ τοῦ ἵνα ἐντυγχάνῃ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν τῷ πατρί , ὡς καὶ ὁ ἀρχιερεὺς εἰσῄει εἰς τὸ ἅγιον ἅπαξ τοῦ ἐνιαυτοῦ , ἐξιλασκόμενος ὑπὲρ τοῦ λαοῦ . And so Thdrt., referring to John 14:1 ff. And similarly many moderns also. But Bleek, De Wette, Lünem., Delitzsch, al. prefer joining ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν with the verb, as more simple. One objection to this they do not seem to have seen: the emphatic position which it gives to ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν , a position certainly uncalled for here. Besides which, the predicate πρόδρομος standing alone is bald and unexpected, whereas πρόδρομος ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν fully justifies itself. And the subsequent words, κατὰ τὴν τάξιν Μ . ἀρχιερεὺς γεν . εἰς τ . αἰ ., are no confirmation of the other view, as Del. maintains. The Lord’s entrance is  sacerdotal , whether He is  forerunner for us , or has  entered for us .  ὑπέρ is not pleonastic, as Œc.: but He is forerunner on our behalf, as representing, and introducing, us, who are to come after.
	 πρόδρομος is a good classical word, signifying ordinarily the  scouts who were  sent before an army, Herod. i. 60; iv. 121 2; and see many examples in Bleek: but also  any others sent before , reff.; and Herod. ix. 14, ἦλθε ἀγγελίη πρόδρομος . It is a figure analogous, in its propriety, to ἀπαρχὴ τῶν κεκοιμημένων , πρωτότοκος ἐκ τῶν νεκρῶν , in theirs. And it is one full of comfort to us: as Thl., ὁ γὰρ πρόδρομος , τινῶν ἐστιν ἀκολουθούντων πρόδρομος · καὶ οὐδὲ πάνυ πολὺ τὸ μέσον τοῦ προδρόμου καὶ τῶν ἑπομένων , ὥσπερ οὐδὲ Ἰωάννου καὶ χριστοῦ . μὴ τοίνυν ἀσχάλλετε . ὁσονούπω εἰσελευσόμεθα ὅπου ὁ πρόδρομος ἡμῶν )  entered Jesus, having become (see on ch. Heb 2:17 )  a High Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek (the stress is on the words κατὰ τὴν τάξιν Μελχισεδέκ , which on that account are taken out of their order (see ch. Heb 5:10 ) and put first. And this is so, because it is this particular point to which the Writer wishes to return in what follows. He assumes for the present ἀρχ . γεν . εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα as conceded, and takes up the mysterious point which he left at ch. Hebrews 5:10 , for elucidation. And thus ends the digression which began there).