 11 .]  But (the δέ carries a slight reproof, contrasting your need of exhortation to constancy with your past and partially remaining present practice)  we earnestly desire ( οὐκ εἶπε · θέλω , ὅπερ ἦν διδασκαλικῆς αὐθεντίας , ἀλλ ʼ ὃ πατρικῆς ἦν φιλοστοργίας κ . πλέον τοῦ θέλειν , ἐπιθυμούμεθα · μονονουχὶ λέγων · σύγγνωτε κἂν φορτικόν τι φθεγξώμεθα . Chrys.: and Thl., οὐ γὰρ μέχρι ῥήματος τοῦτο βούλομαι , ἀλλ ʼ ἡ ψυχή μου καίεται ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν )  that every one of you ( πολλὴ ἡ φιλοστοργία · κ . μεγάλων κ . μικρῶν ὁμοίως κήδεται , καὶ πάντας οἶδε , κ . οὐδένα παρορᾷ , ἀλλὰ τὴν αὐτὴν περὶ ἕκαστον κηδεμονίαν ἐπιδείκνυται , κ . τὴν ἰσοτιμίαν πρὸς πάντας · ὅθεν καὶ μᾶλλον ἔπειθε δέξασθαι τὸ φορτικὸν τῶν ῥημάτων . Chrys.)  do shew (see above)  the same diligence (  τὴν αὐτήν , not as Peirce and Sykes, the same which  some have already shewn : nor, the same as  ye have already shewn , as Chrys. ( οἷος ἦς πρότερον , τοιοῦτον εἶναι κ . νῦν κ . εἰς τὸ μέλλον ), Œc., Thdrt., Thl., Grot., Limb., al., which would imply that the Writer was satisfied with their state hitherto, and only desired its continuance: an inference at variance with the facts of the Epistle: but, the same, with a view to the πληροφ . τῆς ἐλπ . ἄχρι τέλους , as they had already shewn with regard to the necessities of the saints. So Bengel, Cramer, Böhme, Bleek, Lünem., Ebrard, Delitzsch (doubtfully), al.)  with regard to (the employment which this diligence is to find: the object with reference to which it is to energize)  the full assurance (so, taking  πληροφορία subjectively as in the other places of the N. T. (reff.), Erasm., Vatabl., Calvin, Beza, Estius, Jac.Cappell., Schlicht., Calov., Wolf, Tholuck, Ebrard, Lünem., Delitzsch, and many others. And so in fact Thl.: ἵνα πλήρη κ . τελείαν τὴν ἐλπίδα ἐνδείξησθε κ . μὴ σκυλθῆτε . But Corn. a-Lap., Grot., Schulz, De W., Bleek, al., take the word objectively,  the full formation , in the sense,  to be diligent, evermore to form hope more completely within you, so that you be not moved, but stedfast, until the great object of hope appear. This latter no doubt is excellent sense, but N. T. usage must prevail)  of your hope until the end (cf. ch. Hebrews 3:14 . The words  ἄχρι τέλους belong to the whole sentence, not to the verb nor to πληρ . τῆς ἐλπίδος only. ‘The end’ is the coming of the Lord, looked for as close at hand, see note as above):