 9 .]  But we are persuaded (stronger than πεποίθαμεν , which would express only a subjective confidence, whereas  πεπείσμεθα gives the result of actual conviction by proof. Notice the almost verbal correspondence of ref. Rom.)  concerning you, beloved (“Apposite eos sic vocat (see reff.) ne putarent eum aliquo ipsorum odio laborare, sed ut scirent eum amore Christiano erga ipsos flagrare: quiamor facit ut semper meliora ominemur iis quos amamus, et si quid severius dicimus, animo corrigendi, non nocendi cupido, dicamus.” Schlichting),  the things which are better (the better course as regards your moral state: or, the better fate, as regards your ultimate end. So Chrys., drawing the same distinction, ἤτοι περὶ πολιτείας ( ὅτι οὐκ ἐστὲ ὑμεῖς τοιοῦτοι ἀκανθώδεις , added by Thl.) ἢ περὶ ἀντιδόσεως ( ὅτι οὐκ ἐστὲ κατάρας ἐγγύς , οὔτε πρὸς καῦσιν , ἀλλά τις ἄλλη ἀντιμισθία ὑμῖν ἀπόκειται , added by Thl.) ταῦτά φησιν The latter is most probably the reference, seeing that what follows rests on God’s ultimate faithfulness and justice in the day of retribution. The former is of course involved in it, as conditioning it.
	The art. is used, because it is not merely ‘better things,’ of some sort, that he is persuaded, but, of two opposite courses, that one which is the more excellent),  and (things)  akin to salvation (the formula  ἔχεσθαί τινος , ‘to be next to,’ ‘bordering on,’ has occasioned the participle ἐχόμενος to be used in the sense of  akin to, partaking of the nature of . This use is frequent in Herodotus, e. g. v. 49, τοῖσι οὔτε χρυσοῦ ἐχόμενόν ἐστιν οὐδὲν οὔτε ἀργύρου : i. 120, τὰ τῶν ὀνειράτων ἐχόμενα : cf. also ii. 77; iii. 25, 66; viii. 142. So that Augustine’s, Erasmus’s, and Beza’s rendering, “saluti adhærentia,” is better than vulg., “viciniora saluti,” or D-lat., “proximiora saluti.” There may certainly be a reminiscence, in the expression, of κατάρας ἐγγύς above, as Schlichting, “saluti non maledictioni vicina:” but it seems hardly probable, for as Bleek remarks, had this been meant, the Writer would, considering his love for παρονομασία , have used some more cognate expression. On  σωτηρία , in the highest sense,  eternal salvation , see note, ch. Heb 1:14 ),  if even we do thus speak (  εἰ καί differs from  καὶ εἰ , in that the force of the εἰ extends over the whole of the addition or climax expressed by the καί , ‘  if even :’ whereas in καὶ εἰ , the hypothesis itself is included in the climax, ‘  even if .’ See Hartung, Partikellehre i. 139 f. The  present enlarges the speaking, so that it refers not merely to what has just been said, but to a habit of thus speaking: βέλτιον γὰρ ὑμᾶς ῥήμασι φοβῆσαι , ἵνα μὴ τοῖς πράγμασιν ἀλγήσητε . Chrys.).