 19 .]  which (viz. the hope: in its subjective resting on objective grounds now to be set forth: not the παράκλησις , as Grot., Seb. Schmidt, al.)  we have (not, “we hold fast,” as Bretschn., Wahl, al., = κατέχομεν : this is forbidden by the unemphatic position of the word, as well as by the context)  as an anchor of our soul (the similitude is a very common one in Greek and Roman writers; and on coins and medals, where hope is represented by an anchor. See Wetst. A saying is attributed to Socrates, οὔτε ναῦν ἐξ ἑνὸς ἀγκυρίου οὔτε βίον ἐκ μιᾶς ἐλπίδος ὁρμιστέον : see Kypke. Suicer gives some interesting remarks from the Fathers on the similitude)  safe and firm (the adjectives belong to  ἄγκυραν , not to ἐλπίδα . οὐχ ἁπλῶς δὲ εἶπεν ἄγκυραν , ἀλλά , ἀσφαλῆ τε κ . βεβαίαν . ἔστι γὰρ ἄγκυρα μὴ φυλάττουσα τὸ σκάφος ἀσάλευτον , ἢ ὅταν σαθρά , ἢ ὅταν ἐλαφροτέρα . Thl.)  and entering into the part within the veil (first, to what is  εἰσερχομένην to be referred? to ἄγκυραν , or to ( ἣν ) ἐλπίδα ? The former is the more obvious construction: and has been accepted by Beza, Estius (“Sicut ancora navalis non in aquis hæret, sed terram intrat sub aquis latentem, eique infigitur: ita ancora animæ spes nostra non satis habet in vestibulum pervenisse, id est non est contenta bonis terrenis et visibilibus: sed penetrat usque ad ea, quæ sunt intra velum, videlicet in ipsa sancta sanctorum: id est, Deum ipsum et cœlestia bona apprehendit, atque in iis figitur”), Schlichting, Limborch, De Wette, Ebrard, Lünem., Delitzsch, al. This is said by Bleek to be too artificial, and he, with Abresch, Storr, Böhme, Kuinoel, al., takes  hope as that which enters within the veil, simply, the figure being dropped. He refers for this to the Greek expositors also: but Chrys. says, ἄγκυραν δὲ οὐχ ἁπλῶς εἶπεν , ἀλλ ʼ ἀσφαλῆ τε καὶ βεβαίαν · ἵνα δηλώσῃ τὸ ἀψευδὲς τῶν αὐτῇ ἐπερειδομένων εἰς σωτηρίαν ʼ διὸ ἐπάγει , εἰσερχ . εἰς τὸ ἐσώτ . τοῦ καταπετ . τί ἐστι τοῦτο ; ἀντὶ τοῦ διικνουμένην εἰς τὸν οὐρανόν : by which he clearly seems to refer it to the anchor. Thl. says beautifully on the other side, αὕτη γὰρ ( ἡ ἐλπίς ) εἰσελθοῦσα ἔνδον τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , ἐποίησεν ἡμᾶς ἤδη εἶναι ἐν τοῖς ἐπηγγελμένοις , κἂν ἔτι κάτω ὦμεν , κἂν μήπω ἐλάβομεν · τοσαύτην ἔχει τὴν ἰσχὺν ἡ ἐλπίς , ὥστε τοὺς ἐπιγείους οὐρανίους ποιεῖν . And similarly Œc. But I must say that I prefer the other, being as it seems to me the simpler view. “Two figures are here not so much mixed, as wonderfully combined. The Writer might have compared the world to a sea, the soul to a ship, the future yet hidden glory to the concealed bottom of the deep, the far off terra firma, stretching away under the water and covered by it. Or, he might have compared the present earthly life with the forecourt, and the future blessedness with the heavenly sanctuary which is concealed from us by a veil. But he has combined both these. The Soul clings, as one in fear of shipwreck, to an anchor, and sees not whither the cable of the anchor runs, where it is fastened: but she knows that it is fastened behind the veil which hides the future glory, and that she, if she only holds on to the anchor, shall in her time be drawn in where it is, into the holiest place, by the hand of the Deliverer.” Ebrard. This is very beautiful, and in the main, simple and natural: only going off into fancy at the end, which is not required for the interpretation.
	The word  καταπέτασμα is, as far as Bleek knows, Alexandrine: the classical form being παραπέτασμα . See reff. It was the name for the second veil or curtain (ch. Heb 9:3 ), which shut in the holy of holies; the first or outer one being called κάλυμμα , Philo, Vita Mos. iii. 9, vol. ii. p. 150, ἐν δὲ τῷ μεθορίῳ τῶν τεττάρων κ . πέντε κιόνων , ὅπερ ἐστὶ κυρίως εἰπεῖν πρόναον , εἰργόμενον δυσὶν ὑφάσμασι , τὸ μὲν ἔνδον ὃν καλεῖται καταπέτασμα , τὸ δ ʼ ἐκτὸς προσαγορεύεται κάλυμμα . See further on ch. Hebrews 9:3 . For the whole expression, see reff.),