 18 .]  that by means of two ( δύο is here undeclinable, but not, as Delitzsch states, always in N. T. We have δύσιν in ch. Hebrews 10:28 ; Matthew 6:24 ; Matthew 22:40 ; Act 12:6 al.)  unchangeable things ( ποίου καὶ ποίου ; τοῦ τε εἰπεῖν καὶ ὑποσχέσθαι , τοῦ τε ὅρκον προσθεῖναι τῇ ὑποσχέσει . Chrys., Thl.: δύο πράγματα τὸν λόγον καὶ τὸν ὅρκον εἴρηκε . καὶ μόνῳ γὰρ λόγῳ χρώμενος ὁ θεὸς πληροῖ τὴν ὑπόσχεσιν · πολλῷ δὲ μᾶλλον ὅρκον συνάπτων τῷ λόγῳ , Thdrt. Similarly Œc., Schol. Matth., Primas., Erasm., Calov., Beza, Schlichting, and almost all recent expositors. Primasius mentions an idea that one is the promise accompanied by the oath, the other the completion of the promise. Stuart thinks that the  two oaths are meant, that to Abraham, and that to Christ by which He is constituted a priest after the order of Melchisedek, and refers to Storr as agreeing in substance with him. But this cannot be the meaning. For the Writer is not  recounting God’s promises made by oath, on which our Christian hope is founded: for thus he might say not  two but many (e. g. “The Lord hath sworn unto David and will not repent: Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy seat”): but he is impressing on us the strength of that  method of assurance which God has been pleased to give us, in that He has not only promised (in both cases in question) but also confirmed it by an oath),  in which (“quæ quum adsint,” as Böhme in Bl.:  bei denen : much as  ἐν ᾧ above [as the material of the lie, if it were possible])  it is impossible for God ever (this force is given by the aor. which distributes the proposition into separate incidents)  to lie (in each and either of them, it is out of all question that falsehood should be suspected in Him. The stress is on  ψεύσασθαι , not on θεόν )  we may have strong encouragement (see below),  who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us (so (except “  consolation ” for ‘  encouragement ’) E. V. and in my opinion rightly. The construction, and with it the meaning of  παράκλησις , is much controverted. The above view is that of Primas., Erasm., Beza, Schlicht., Grot., Wolf, Schulz, Böhme, Kuinoel, De Wette, Ebrard, Bisping, Tholuck, Delitzsch, and many others. On the other hand Œc. ( οἱ καταφυγόντες · εἰς αὐτόν φησι . κρατῆσαι · ἰσχυρὰν παράκλησιν ἔχωμεν εἰς τὸ κρατῆσαι τῆς προκειμένης ἐλπίδος ), Thl. ( παράκλησιν · παραίνεσιν μεγάλην κ . προτροπήν .… ποῦ δὲ ἔχομεν τὴν προτροπήν ; εἰς τὸ κρατῆσαι κ . τ . λ .), (Chrys. gives no exposition), Camerarius, Camero, Seb. Schmidt, Heinrichs, Bleek, Lünem., Conybeare, Stuart, al. make  κρατῆσαι dependent on  παράκλησιν , which they render “  exhortation ,” “  encouragement .” This necessitates making  καταφυγόντες absolute, “  we who have fled for refuge :” but from what, or to what? There is nothing in the context here, which could lead to this absolute use of such an expression. But if it be joined with εἰς τὸ κρατῆσαι , the idea of flying to an asylum is at once given, and the figure easily and naturally introduced. Besides which, had παράκλησις , meaning ‘exhortation’ or ‘encouragement,’ been followed by a verb, ‘  to hold fast ,’ this could hardly have been expressed by an aorist: being an abiding condition, it must be  present . Whereas now, we have fled to refuge in order to lay hold of the whole Christian state in one act, which justifies the aorist. As regards the separate words,  παράκλησις need not mean “  consolation ,” but may here also be taken in the same sense as in the other two passages of our Epistle (reff.), viz. ‘  encouragement ’ or ‘exhortation,’ without an infinitive following. Of these, the former is that which best bears  absolute use in English, and I have therefore adopted it.  καταφεύγω (see reff. and Jeremiah 27:5 ( Jer 50:5 ); Ps. 142:9) is generally used in the sense of  flying for refuge : so Herod. ii. 113, of Paris, when shipwrecked in Egypt, and a suppliant in the temple of Hercules: vi. 75, of the Argives who had fled for sanctuary to the temple of Argos. See especially Raphel’s note here. For  κρατεῖν , see on ref.: where observe the present, giving the sense ‘hold fast.’  τῆς προκειμένης ἐλπίδος is not an easy expression. The verb προκεῖσθαι is often used of a prize proposed for a contest,  πρό giving the sense of  coram , as in ‘propono:’ so Herod. ix. 101, ὥς σφι καὶ αἱ νῆσοι καὶ ὁ Ἑλλήσποντος ἄεθλα προέκειτο , and in numerous examples in Bl. from Xen., Polyb., Ælian, Jos., Philo. So in ch. Hebrews 12:2 , τῆς  προκειμένης αὐτῷ χαρᾶς . Hence it seems most natural to take ἐλπίς here objectively, or very nearly so; hope, as embodying the thing hoped for. And especially is this so, when we compare Colossians 1:5 , τὴν ἐλπίδα τὴν ἀποκειμένην ὑμῖν ἐν τοῖς οὐρανοῖς , and Titus 2:13 , προσδεχόμενοι τὴν μακαρίαν ἐλπίδα . Those who take κρατῆσαι for “  to hold fast ,” are obliged here to regard τῆς προκειμένης ἐλπίδος as equivalent to τῆς ἐλπίδος τῶν προκειμένων : so Bleek: which is very forced: or, as Lünem., to regard ἐλπίς itself as a subjective quality made objective, which, as a privilege or a possession, is ready for and proposed to us in the Christian covenant. Calvin gives a curious explanation: “In vocabulo spei est metonymia: effectus enim pro causa accipitur: nam ego promissionem intelligo cui spes nostra innititur”):