 3 .]  And this (viz. ἐπὶ τὴν τελειότητα φέρεσθαι , see below)  we will do (on the reading, see digest.  ποιήσομεν has been variously interpreted, Schlichting, Grot., Wetst., and several others, who suppose (see above) that φερώμεθα expresses the determination of the Writer, take it as referring to the participial clause μὴ πάλ . θεμέλιον καταβαλλόμενοι , and as meaning, “  even ( καί )  this ( τὸ πάλιν θεμέλιον καταβάλλεσθαι )  we will do .” But surely this is impossible: first, we have to refer  τοῦτο to a dependent clause, not to the whole sentence going before: and even if this could be got over, the  μή attached to καταβαλλόμενοι is put aside, and the clause taken as if it were a positive one. Besides which, no convenient sense would be yielded by such a reference. For having asserted on this hypothesis that even the relaying of the foundation should be done, if God will, he goes on to say ἀδύνατον γὰρ κ . τ . λ ., which would in no way (see below) fit in to the context. This being so, others, still regarding φερώμεθα as the first, refer the future ποιήσομεν to the φερώμεθα . So Primasius, “Et hoc faciemus, i. e. et ad majora nos ducemus, et de his omnibus quæ enumeravimus plenissime docebimus nos, ut non sit iterum necesse ex toto et a capite ponere fundamentum:” and Thl., τοῦτο ποιήσομεν . ποῖον ; τὸ ἐπὶ τὴν τελειότητα φέρεσθαι . And doubtless so a very good sense is given. In favour of  ποιήσωμεν , it may be said, that it corresponds better with the hortatory tone of φερώμεθα , and though the less obvious reading, is more in accordance with the style of the Epistle)  if, that is (the force of  περ in composition is to give thoroughness and universal reference to the particle to which it is attached: ἐάν , &c.: ἐάνπερ , ‘si omnino:’ so Hom. I1. ψ . 97, μίνυνθά περ ἀμφιβαλόντε ἀλλήλους , “brevi omnino amplexu fruentes.” See this well worked out, and its relation to περί , πέρας , &c. established, in Hartung’s chapter on the particle, Partikellehre i. 327 344. The effect of this meaning in hypothetical sentences like the present, is to assume the hypothesis as altogether requisite to the previous position: so Soph. Œd. C. 999, εἴπερ ζῆν φιλεῖς , “if, that is, thou lovest life:” Æsch. Ag. 28, εἴπερ Ἰλίου πόλις ἑάλωκεν , ὡς ὁ φρυκτὸς ἀγγέλων πρέπει ),  God permit (Œc., τὸ ἐάνπερ οὐ πρὸς τοῦτο εἶπεν , ὡς τοῦ θεοῦ οὐ πάντως ἐπιτρέποντος ἐπιτρέπει γὰρ ἀεὶ ὁ θεὸς τὰ καλὰ καὶ τέλεια ἀλλ ʼ ὡς ἔθος ἡμῖν λέγειν · θεοῦ θέλοντος τοῦτο ποιήσωμεν . And Thl., better, ἅμα δὲ καὶ διδάσκει ἡμᾶς ἐντεῦθεν , τὸ πᾶν τῆς ἐκείνου ἐξαρτᾶν θελήσεως , καὶ μηδὲ ἐπὶ τῶν ὁμολογουμένως καλῶν τῇ οἰκείᾳ θαῤῥεῖν κ . κρίσει κ . δυνάμει . It may here again be said, that the addition after the hortatory ποιήσωμεν is as delicate and beautiful, as it is frigid in the common acceptation after the indicative ποιήσομεν . For it is God who worketh in us both to will and to do of his good pleasure, Philippians 2:13 . And it leads the way beautifully to what follows: ‘If,’ I say, ‘God permit: for when men have once fallen away, it is a thing impossible,’ &c.).