 4 .]  For (depends on the whole foregoing sentence, including the reference to the divine permission: not as Whitby and De Wette, on μὴ πάλιν θεμ . καταβαλλόμενοι . The connexion is: we  must go on, for if we go back, it will be to perdition a thing which ( Heb 6:9 ) we do not think of you, and therefore expect your advance)  it is impossible, in the case of (these words I insert, not as belonging to the Greek construction, but as necessary in English, to prevent the entire inversion of the Greek order of the sentence)  those who have been (or,  were : but the English perfect here represents idiomatically the Greek aorist, ἅπαξ in this clause referring pointedly enough to the time when the event took place. And indeed where there is no such plain reference as in the subsequent clauses,  we are in the habit of expressing priority more by the perfect, the Greeks by the aorist. And here it is quite necessary to take our English perfect: for our indefinite past, ‘who were enlightened and tasted … and were made … and tasted …’ would convey to the mere English reader the idea that all this took place at one and the same time, viz. baptism, whereas the participles clearly indicate progressive steps of the spiritual life. These remarks do not apply to cases like that of Acts 19:2 f., but only to those where an aorist participle indicates priority to some present action)  once (for all: indicating that the process needs not, or admits not, repetition: cf. reff.  ἅπαξ occurs eight times in our Epistle, which is oftener than in all the rest of the N. T.)  enlightened (Bleek gives a good résumé of the usage and meanings of  φωτίζειν . It is a word of later Greek, principally found in the N. T. and LXX (reff.). It occurs in Polyb. xxx. 8. 1, τῶν γραμμάτων ἑαλωκότων κ . πεφωτισμένων , “taken and brought to light:” xxiii. 3. 10, ἐφώτισε τὴν ἑκατέρων αἵρεσιν : Arrian, Epict. i. 4, τῷ … τὴν ἀλήθειαν … φωτίσαντι καὶ εἰς ἅπαντας ἀνθρώπους ἐξενέγκαντι : Diog. Laert. i. 57, μᾶλλον οὖν Σόλων Ὅμηρον ἐφώτισεν ἢ Πεισίστρατος . In all these places the sense is to  bring to light , or  cast light upon . The other meaning, to  enlighten , applied to a person, is purely Hellenistic. So in ref. Judg., φωτισάτω ἡμᾶς , τί ποιήσωμεν τῷ παιδαρίῳ τῷ τικτομένῳ . And the LXX usage is generally simply  to teach, to instruct : so in ref. 4 Kings, and ib. 4 Kings 17:27, φωτιοῦσιν αὐτοὺς τὸ κρῖμα τοῦ θεοῦ τῆς γῆς . Here it implies,  taught, by the preaching of the word of God . An historic interest belongs to the occurrence of this word here, as having in all probability given rise to a meaning of φωτίζειν and φωτισμός , as denoting  baptism , which was current throughout the Church down to the Reformation. Justin Mart. Apol. i. 61, p. 80 says, καλεῖται δὲ τοῦτο τὸ λοῦτρον  φωτισμός , ὡς φωτιζομένων τὴν διάνοιαν τῶν ταῦτα μανθανόντων . Chrys. has two κατηχήσεις πρὸς τοὺς μέλλοντας φωτίζεσθαι , in the first of which (vol. ii. p. 228) he justifies the name  φώτισμα for baptism by reference to the two places in this Epistle. Suicer (sub voce) gives a full account of this usage, from which it appears that the word never came simply and purely to signify outward baptism, but always included that illumination of the new birth which is the thing signified in the sacrament. So Ps.-Chrys, Hom. on John 1:1 , vol. xii. p. 418, ( οἱ αἱρετικοὶ ) βάπτισμα ἔχουσιν , οὐ φώτισμα . καὶ βαπτίζονται μὲν σώματι , ψυχῇ δὲ οὐ φωτίζονται · ὥσπερ γὰρ καὶ Σίμων ἐβαπτίσθη , ἀλλ ʼ οὐκ ἐφωτίσθη · οὕτω καὶ αὐτοὶ ἀκολούθως εὑρίσκονται . The Syr. here translates, “qui semel ad baptismum descenderunt.” And so all the ancient Commentators here, and some of the moderns, as Justiniani, Estius, a-Lapide, Calmet, Hammond, Pyle, Ernesti. Erasmus seems the first who interpreted the word aright (“qui semel reliquerint tenebras vitæ prioris, illuminati per doctrinam evangelicam”), and almost all since have followed him),  and (on the coupling by  τε see below)  have tasted (personally and consciously partaken of: see reff. 1 Pet. and Ps.: and on the general expression γεύεσθαί τινος , note on ch. Heb 2:9 )  of the heavenly gift (what is more especially meant? It is very variously given: Chrys. ( τουτέστι , τῆς ἀφέσεως ), Œc. ( τῆς ἀφέσεως τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν τῆς ἐν τῳ βαπτίσματι ),  remission of sins : and so Thl., Faber Stap., Erasm. (par.) (“jamque per baptismum condonatis peccatis”), Hammond, De Wette, al.: Schlichting (“animi cum pax et tranquillitas quæ oritur ex notitia plenissimæ remissionis omnium peccatorum, tum liquidissimum illud gaudium et spes immortalis vitæ”), Grot. (“id est, pacem conscientiæ”), Justiniani,  joy and peace in believing : Primas., Estius (only as “probabilitatem habens”), Michaelis,  the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper : Owen, Calmet, Ernesti,  the Holy Spirit and His gifts : Seb. Schmidt, Bengel, and many more,  Christ Himself : Kuinoel, Heinrichs, al.,  the religion of Christ ,  the gospel : Pareus,  faith : Klee,  regeneration in general as distinguished from the special gifts of the Spirit in Baptism: Bleek and Tholuck, on account of the close coupling by  τε to what has preceded, the φῶς itself conveyed in the φωτισμός . But I would rather, considering the emphatic position of γευσαμένους , take, as indeed do Lünemann and Ebrard virtually (and Delitzsch, referring to 2Co 9:15 ),  δωρεά to have a perfectly general reference, q. d. ‘that which was bestowed on them thereby.’ This heavenly gift the persons supposed have  tasted for themselves . The  τε , in the style of this Epistle and St. Luke in the Acts, cannot be pressed so securely as in ordinary Greek and in the rest of the N. T.: and indeed on this last rendering is fully justified)  and have been made (see note on ch. Hebrews 4:3 , for a discussion of the passive sense of ἐγενήθην : which, however true here, must not be too much pressed, so as to emphasize the participle: see below)  partakers (see on ref.)  of the Holy Spirit (outwardly, the agency would be the laying on of hands after baptism: but obviously the emphatic word is  μετόχους have become  real sharers εἰς ἓν πνεῦμα ποτισθέντες : so that the proper agent is He who only can bestow this participation, viz. God),