 12 .]  that ye become not (“  be not ” misses the fine delicacy of the Writer: as Chrys., ἵνα μὴ νωθροὶ γένησθε , ἀκμὴν γένησθε . καὶ μὴν ἀνωτέρω ἔλεγεν , ἐπεὶ νωθροὶ γεγόνατε ταῖς ἀκοαῖς . ἀλλ ʼ ὅρα πῶς ἐκεῖ μέχρι τῆς ἀκοῆς τὴν νωθρότητα ἔστησεν . ἐνταῦθά τε καὶ αὐτὸ τοῦτο φθέγγεται , ἀλλ ʼ ἕτερόν τι αἰνίττεται · ἀντὶ γὰρ τοῦ εἰπεῖν , μὴ ἐναπομείνητε τῇ ῥᾳθυμίᾳ , μὴ νωθροὶ γένησθε , εἶπε . πάλιν αὐτοὺς εἰς τὸν μέλλοντα ἐξάγει καιρὸν τὸν ἀνεύθυνον , εἰπών , ἵνα μὴ νωθροὶ γένησθε · ἐκείνου γὰρ τοῦ μήπω παρόντος οὐκ ἂν εἴημεν ὑπεύθυνοι . ὁ μὲν γὰρ εἰς τὸ παρὸν παρακαλούμενος σπουδάζειν , ὡς ῥᾳθυμῶν , ἴσως καὶ ὀκνηρότερος ἔσται · ὁ δὲ εἰς τὸ μέλλον , οὐχ οὕτως )  sluggish (see on ref. Lünemann observes that this  μὴ νωθ  .   γένησθε is in no contradiction to νωθ . γεγόνατε there, the one being of sluggishness in hearing, the other in Christian practice. See Chrys. above),  but (this again is a  δέ bringing in a strong contrast ‘nay, but rather:’ passing to another subject altogether, as it were. See on ch. Heb 2:6 )  imitators (a favourite word with St. Paul, see reff.: Xen. Mem. i. 6. 3, οἱ διδάσκαλοι τοὺς μαθητὰς μιμητὰς ἑαυτῶν ἀποδεικνύουσι . Herodian vi. 8. 5, ὡς μὴ μαθητὰς εἶναι μόνον , ἀλλὰ ζηλωτὰς καὶ μιμητὰς τῆς ἐκείνου ἀνδρείας )  of them who through faith and endurance (see ref. Col., also Hebrews 6:15 ; James 5:7-8 . Both the noun and the verb belong to later Greek. They form a contrast to ὀξύ - θυμος , - έω , earlier and classical words. Here, that constant and patient waiting is implied, without which faith would be made void: of which it is said, “It is good that a man should both hope and wait for the salvation of the Lord.” But there is no Hendiadys: faith is one thing, endurance another, superadded upon it)  inherit the promises (what is meant by κληρονομούντων τὰς ἐπαγγελίας , and who are indicated by the expression? The two questions are very closely connected together. First observe that the participle is not κληρονομησάντων , but present: said not of any one act by which these persons entered on the inheritance of the promises, but of either, 1. a state now going on, ‘  who are inheriting ,’ or, 2. in mere predication, ‘  who are inheritors of .’ That the first cannot be meant, is clear: for in ch. 11 where he enumerates the examples of faith and patience, he says, οὗτοι πάντες … οὐκ ἐκομίσαντο τὴν ἐπαγγελίαν . This same consideration will prevent the reference very commonly here supposed, to Abraham and the patriarchs. Taking then (2), we may regard the participle as ὁ πειράζων and the like, used without reference to time, but as indicative of office, or standing, or privilege. Thus the reference of the words will be perfectly general: not,  who have inherited , nor  who shall inherit , nor  who are inheriting , but ‘  who are inheritors of,’ who inherit , in all times and under all circumstances. Of these, Abraham is chosen as the most illustrious example).