 16. For [  indeed ] (see var. readd. This  μέν solitarium or ellipticum is common with γάρ , in the sense of the German  zwar or  freilich , and our ‘  of a truth,’ ‘verily :’ so Eurip. Med. 698, ξυγγνωστὰ μὲν γὰρ ἦν σε λυπεῖσθαι , γύναι : Xen. Mem. iii. 10. 1, εἰσελθὼν μὲν γάρ ποτε πρὸς Παῤῥάσιον . See the elliptic μέν well discussed in Hartung, Partikellehre ii. 411 ff.)  men (emphatic)  swear (Bleek observes that it is a mistake to call the form  ὀμνύουσιν Hellenistic ( ὀλλύασιν , ὀμνύασιν , Ἀττικῶς · ὀλλύουσιν , ὀμνύουσιν , Ἑλληνικῶς . Moeris), for we have it in Xen. Mem. iv. 4. 16 ( πανταχοῦ ὀμνύουσι τὸν ὅρκον τοῦτον ) and Demosth. p. 622. 22)  by the greater (  one ) (  τοῦ μείζονος is undoubtedly masculine: it could not be predicated of any thing neuter, that it was  greater than the men who swear. And by the expression here, generally taken, must be meant God Himself: that greater One, who is above all men. And so Primas., Grot., Bengel, al.),  and an (  the in the case supposed: the art. is generic: cf. Matthew 13:3 , ὁ σπείρων : John 12:24 , ὁ κόκκος )  oath is to them an end (see reff. and more examples in Bleek)  of all gainsaying (E. V. with very many others, “  strife ,” which is a legitimate meaning of ἀντιλογία (cf. Exodus 18:16 ; Deuteronomy 19:17 ; Deuteronomy 21:5 :2 Kings 15:4 ; Proverbs 18:18 ; Xen. Hell. vi. 3. 20, εἰρήνην τῶν ἄλλων πεποιημένων , πρὸς δὲ Θηβαίους μόνους ἀντιλογίας οὔσης ), but not borne out here by the context, seeing that there is no allusion to any instance in which God and men were at strife. And besides, in the only places where ἀντιλογία occurs in the N. T. (see reff.) it has the meaning ‘  gainsaying :’ e. g. ch. Hebrews 7:7 , χωρὶς πάσης ἀντιλογίας , without possibility of gainsaying. So that it is best to take this meaning here, and understand that an oath puts an end to all gainsaying by confirming the matter  one way , in which all parties consent),  for confirmation (the E. V. with Beza, Erasm., al., ungrammatically joins these words with ὁ ὅρκος , “  an oath for confirmation .” It is obvious to every one, that they can only be joined, and that closely, with πέρας . The only reason why in the translation I have separated them from it, is for fear of introducing, in English, the ambiguity, ‘for confirmation of all gainsaying.’ Calvin’s remark on this verse is pertinent: “Præterea hic locus docet aliquem inter Christianos jurisjurandi usum esse legitimum. Quod observandum est contra homines fanaticos qui regulam sancte jurandi, quam Deus lege sua præscripsit, libenter abrogarent. Nam Apostolus certe hic de ratione jurandi tanquam de re pia et Deo probata disserit. Porro non dicit olim fuisse in usu, sed adhuc vigere pronuntiat”).