20. And Jesus saith unto him, The
	foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of
	man hath not where to lay his head—Few as there were of the
	scribes who attached themselves to Jesus, it would appear, from his
	calling Him Teacher, that this one was a "disciple" in that
	looser sense of the word in which it is applied to the crowds who
	flocked after Him, with more or less conviction that His claims were
	well founded. But from the answer which he received we are led to
	infer that there was more of transient emotion—of temporary
	impulse—than of intelligent principle in the speech. The preaching
	of Christ had riveted and charmed him; his heart had swelled; his
	enthusiasm had been kindled; and in this state of mind he will go
	anywhere with Him, and feels impelled to tell Him so. "Wilt
	thou?" replies the Lord Jesus. "Knowest thou whom thou art
	pledging thyself to follow, and whither haply He may lead thee? No
	warm home, no downy pillow has He for thee: He has them not for
	Himself. The foxes are not without their holes, nor do the birds of
	the air lack their nests; but the Son of man has to depend on the
	hospitality of others, and borrow the pillow whereon He lays His
	head." How affecting is this reply! And yet He rejects not this
	man's offer, nor refuses him the liberty to follow Him. Only He will
	have him know what he is doing, and "count the cost." He
	will have him weigh well the real nature and the strength of his
	attachment, whether it be such as will abide in the day of trial. If
	so, he will be right welcome, for Christ puts none away. But it seems
	too plain that in this case that had not been done. And so we have
	called this the Rash or Precipitate Disciple. 
	II. The Procrastinating or
	Entangled Disciple (Matthew 8:21;
	Matthew 8:22). 
	As this is more fully given in
	Luke (Luke 9:59), we must take
	both together. "And He said unto another of His disciples,
	Follow Me. But he said," 
	Lord, suffer me first to go
	and bury my father. But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the
	dead bury their dead—or, as more definitely in Luke, "Let
	the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God"
	(Luke 9:60). This disciple did
	not, like the former, volunteer his services, but is called by the
	Lord Jesus, not only to follow, but to preach Him. And he is quite
	willing; only he is not ready just yet. "Lord, I will;
	but"—"There is a difficulty in the way just now; but that
	once removed, I am Thine." What now is this difficulty? Was his
	father actually dead—lying a corpse—having only to be buried?
	Impossible. As it was the practice, as noticed on Luke 9:60- :, to bury on the day of death, it is not very likely that
	this disciple would have been here at all if his father had just
	breathed his last; nor would the Lord, if He was there, have hindered
	him discharging the last duties of a son to a father. No doubt it was
	the common case of a son having a frail or aged father, not likely to
	live long, whose head he thinks it his duty to see under the ground
	ere he goes abroad. "This aged father of mine will soon be
	removed; and if I might but delay till I see him decently interred, I
	should then be free to preach the kingdom of God wherever duty might
	call me." This view of the case will explain the curt reply,
	"Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the
	kingdom of God." Like all the other paradoxical sayings of our
	Lord, the key to it is the different senses—a higher and a lower—in
	which the same word "dead" is used: There are two kingdoms
	of God in existence upon earth; the kingdom of nature, and the
	kingdom of grace: To the one kingdom all the children of this world,
	even the most ungodly, are fully alive; to the other, only the
	children of light: The reigning irreligion consists not in
	indifference to the common humanities of social life, but to things
	spiritual and eternal: Fear not, therefore, that your father will in
	your absence be neglected, and that when he breathes his last there
	will not be relatives and friends ready enough to do to him the last
	offices of kindness. Your wish to discharge these yourself is
	natural, and to be allowed to do it a privilege not lightly to be
	foregone. But the kingdom of God lies now all neglected and needy:
	Its more exalted character few discern; to its paramount claims few
	are alive: and to "preach" it fewer still are qualified and
	called: But thou art: The Lord therefore hath need of thee: Leave,
	then, those claims of nature, high though they be, to those who are
	dead to the still higher claims of the kingdom of grace, which God is
	now erecting upon earth—Let the dead bury their dead; but go thou
	and preach the kingdom of God. And so have we here the genuine, but
	Procrastinating or Entangled Disciple. 
	The next case is recorded only by
	Luke: 
	 III. The
	Irresolute or Wavering Disciple (Luke 9:61;
	Luke 9:62). 
	 Luke 9:62- :: 
	 And
	another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid
	them farewell which are at home at my house. 
 Luke 9:62- :: 
	And
	Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and
	looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
 But for the very different replies
	given, we should hardly have discerned the difference between this
	and the second case: the one man called, indeed, and the other
	volunteering, as did the first; but both seemingly alike willing, and
	only having a difficulty in their way just at that moment. But, by
	help of what is said respectively to each, we perceive the great
	difference between the two cases. From the warning given against
	"looking back," it is evident that this man's discipleship
	was not yet thorough,
	his separation from the world not entire. It is not a case of going
	back, but of looking
	back; and as there is here a manifest reference to the case of "Lot's
	wife" (Genesis 19:26; and see
	on Genesis 19:26- :), we see that it is not
	actual return
	to the world that we have here to deal with, but a reluctance
	to break with it. The figure of putting
	one's hand to the plough and looking back is an exceedingly vivid
	one, and to an agricultural people most impressive. As ploughing
	requires an eye intent on the furrow to be made, and is marred the
	instant one turns about, so will they come short of salvation who
	prosecute the work of God with a distracted attention, a divided
	heart. The reference may be chiefly to ministers; but the application
	at least is general. As the image seems plainly to have been
	suggested by the case of Elijah and Elisha, a difficulty may be
	raised, requiring a moment's attention. When Elijah cast his mantle
	about Elisha, which the youth quite understood to mean appointing him
	his successor, he was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen, the last
	pair held by himself. Leaving his oxen, he ran after the prophet, and
	said, "Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and
	[then] I will follow thee." Was this said in
	the same spirit with the same speech
	uttered by our disciple? Let us see. "And Elijah said unto him,
	Go back again: for what have I done to thee." Commentators take
	this to mean that Elijah had really done nothing to hinder him from
	going on with all his ordinary duties. But to us it seems clear that
	Elijah's intention was to try what manner of spirit the youth was
	of:—"Kiss thy father and mother? And why not? By all means, go
	home and stay with them; for what have I done to thee? I did but
	throw a mantle about thee; but what of that?" If this was his
	meaning, Elisha thoroughly apprehended and nobly met it. "He
	returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen, and slew them, and
	boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen (the wood of his
	ploughing implements), and gave unto the people, and they did eat:
	then he arose, and went after Elijah, and ministered unto him"
	(1 Kings 19:19-21). We
	know not if even his father and mother had time to be called to this
	hasty feast. But this much is plain, that, though in affluent
	circumstances, he gave up his lower calling, with all its prospects,
	for the higher and at that time perilous, office to which he was
	called. What now is the bearing of these two cases? Did Elisha do
	wrong in bidding them farewell with whom he was associated in his
	early calling? Or, if not, would this disciple have done wrong if he
	had done the same thing, and in the same spirit, with Elisha? Clearly
	not. Elisha's doing it proved that he could with
	safety do it; and our Lord's warning is
	not against bidding them farewell which were at home at his house,
	but against the probable fatal
	consequences of that step; lest the
	embraces of earthly relationship should prove too strong for him, and
	he should never return to follow Christ. Accordingly, we have called
	this the Irresolute or Wavering Disciple. 
	1 Kings 19:19-11.19.21- :. JESUS
	CROSSING THE SEA
	OF GALILEE,
	MIRACULOUSLY STILLS
	A TEMPEST. ( =
	Mark 4:35-41; Luke 8:22-25).
	For the exposition, see on Luke 8:22-42.8.25- :. 
	Luke 8:22-42.8.25- :. JESUS HEALS
	THE GERGESENE
	DEMONIACS. ( = Mark 5:1-20;
	Luke 8:26-39). 
	For the exposition, see on Luke 8:26-42.8.39- :.