13. His glorified form as man
	could be recognized by John, who had seen it at the Transfiguration. 
	in the midst—implying
	Christ's continual presence and ceaseless activity in the midst
	of His people on earth. In  :-, when He appears in heaven, His insignia undergo a
	corresponding change yet even there the rainbow reminds us of His
	everlasting covenant with them. 
	seven—omitted in two of
	the oldest manuscripts, but supported by one. 
	Son of man—The form
	which John had seen enduring the agony of Gethsemane, and the shame
	and anguish of Calvary, he now sees glorified. His glory (as Son
	of man, not merely Son of God) is the result of His
	humiliation as Son of man.
down to the foot—a mark
	of high rank. The garment and girdle seem to be emblems of His
	priesthood. Compare Exodus 28:2;
	Exodus 28:4; Exodus 28:31;
	Septuagint. Aaron's robe and girdle were "for glory and
	beauty," and combined the insignia of royalty and priesthood,
	the characteristics of Christ's antitypical priesthood "after
	the order of Melchisedec." His being in the midst of the
	candlesticks (only seen in the temple), shows that it is
	as a king-priest He is so attired. This priesthood He has
	exercised ever since His ascension; and, therefore He here wears its
	emblems. As Aaron wore these insignia when He came forth from the
	sanctuary to bless the people (Leviticus 16:4;
	Leviticus 16:23; Leviticus 16:24,
	the chetoneth, or holy linen coat), so when Christ shall come
	again, He shall appear in the similar attire of "beauty and
	glory" (Isaiah 4:2, Margin).
	The angels are attired somewhat like their Lord (Isaiah 4:2- :). The ordinary girding for one actively engaged, was at the
	loins; but JOSEPHUS
	[Antiquities,3.7.2], expressly tells us that the Levitical
	priests were girt higher up, about the breasts or paps,
	appropriate to calm, majestic movement. The girdle bracing the frame
	together, symbolizes collected powers. Righteousness and
	faithfulness are Christ's girdle. The high priest's girdle was
	only interwoven with gold, but Christ's is all of gold; the antitype
	exceeds the type.