10. I was—Greek, "I
	came to be"; "I became." 
	in the Spirit—in a
	state of ecstasy; the outer world being shut out, and the inner and
	higher life or spirit being taken full possession of by God's Spirit,
	so that an immediate connection with the invisible world is
	established. While the prophet "speaks" in the
	Spirit, the apocalyptic seer is in the Spirit in his whole
	person. The spirit only (that which connects us with God and the
	invisible world) is active, or rather recipient, in the apocalyptic
	state. With Christ this being "in the Spirit" was not the
	exception, but His continual state. 
	on the Lord's day—Though
	forcibly detained from Church communion with the brethren in the
	sanctuary on the Lord's day, the weekly commemoration of the
	resurrection, John was holding spiritual communion with them. This is
	the earliest mention of the term, "the Lord's day."
	But the consecration of the day to worship, almsgiving, and the
	Lord's Supper, is implied in Acts 20:7;
	1 Corinthians 16:2; compare 1 Corinthians 16:2- :. The name corresponds to "the Lord's Supper,"
	1 Corinthians 11:20. IGNATIUS
	seems to allude to "the Lord's day" [Epistle to the
	Magnesians, 9], and IRENÆUS
	[Quæst ad Orthod., 115] (in JUSTIN
	MARTYR). JUSTIN
	MARTYR [Apology,
	2.98], c., "On Sunday we all hold our joint meeting for the
	first day is that on which God, having removed darkness and chaos,
	made the world, and Jesus Christ our Saviour rose from the dead. On
	the day before Saturday they crucified Him; and on the day after
	Saturday, which is Sunday, having appeared to His apostles and
	disciples, He taught these things." To the Lord's day PLINY
	doubtless refers [Epistles, Book X., p. 97], "The
	Christians on a fixed day before dawn meet and sing a hymn to
	Christ as God," c. TERTULLIAN
	[The Chaplet, 3], "On the Lord's day we deem it wrong to
	fast." MELITO, bishop
	of Sardis (second century), wrote a book on the Lord's day
	[EUSEBIUS 4.26]. Also,
	DIONYSIUS OF CORINTH,
	in EUSEBIUS
	[Ecclesiastical History, 4.23,8]. CLEMENT
	OF ALEXANDRIA
	[Miscellanies, 5. and 7.12] ORIGEN
	[Against Celsus, 8. 22]. The theory that the day of
	Christ's second coming is meant, is untenable. "The day of
	the Lord" is different in the Greek from "the Lord's
	(an adjective) day," which latter in the ancient Church always
	designates our Sunday, though it is not impossible that the two shall
	coincide (at least in some parts of the earth), whence a tradition is
	mentioned in JEROME
	[Commentary on Matthew, 25], that the Lord's coming was
	expected especially on the Paschal Lord's day. The visions of the
	Apocalypse, the seals, trumpets, and vials, c., are grouped in
	sevens, and naturally begin on the first day of the seven, the
	birthday of the Church, whose future they set forth [WORDSWORTH].
	great voice—summoning
	solemn attention Greek order, "I heard a voice behind me
	great (loud) as (that) of a trumpet." The trumpet summoned to
	religious feasts, and accompanies God's revelations of Himself.