1. Revelation—an apocalypse or
	unveiling of those things which had been veiled. A manifesto
	of the kingdom of Christ. The travelling manual of the Church for the
	Gentile Christian times. Not a detailed history of the future,
	but a representation of the great epochs and chief powers in
	developing the kingdom of God in relation to the world. The
	"Church-historical" view goes counter to the great
	principle that Scripture interprets itself. Revelation is to teach us
	to understand the times, not the times to interpret to us the
	Apocalypse, although it is in the nature of the case that a reflex
	influence is exerted here and is understood by the prudent
	[AUBERLEN]. The book is in
	a series of parallel groups, not in chronological succession. Still
	there is an organic historical development of the kingdom of God. In
	this book all the other books of the Bible end and meet: in it is the
	consummation of all previous prophecy. Daniel foretells as to Christ
	and the Roman destruction of Jerusalem, and the last Antichrist. But
	John's Revelation fills up the intermediate period, and describes the
	millennium and final state beyond Antichrist. Daniel, as a godly
	statesman, views the history of God's people in relation to the four
	world kingdoms. John, as an apostle, views history from the
	Christian Church aspect. The term Apocalypse is applied
	to no Old Testament book. Daniel is the nearest approach to it; but
	what Daniel was told to seal and shut up till the time of
	the end, John, now that the time is at hand ( :-), is directed to reveal.
of Jesus Christ—coming
	from Him. Jesus Christ, not John the writer, is the Author of
	the Apocalypse. Christ taught many things before His departure; but
	those which were unsuitable for announcement at that time He brought
	together into the Apocalypse [BENGEL].
	Compare His promise, John 15:15,
	"All things that I have heard of My Father, I have made known
	unto you"; also, John 16:13,
	"The Spirit of truth will show you things to come."
	The Gospels and Acts are the books, respectively, of His first
	advent, in the flesh, and in the Spirit; the Epistles are the
	inspired comment on them. The Apocalypse is the book of His second
	advent and the events preliminary to it. 
	which God gave unto him—The
	Father reveals Himself and His will in, and by, His Son. 
	to show—The word recurs
	in Revelation 22:6: so entirely have
	the parts of Revelation reference to one another. It is its peculiar
	excellence that it comprises in a perfect compendium future things,
	and these widely differing: things close at hand, far off, and
	between the two; great and little; destroying and saving; repeated
	from old prophecies and new; long and short, and these interwoven
	with one another, opposed and mutually agreeing; mutually involving
	and evolving one another; so that in no book more than in this would
	the addition, or taking away, of a single word or clause (Revelation 22:18;
	Revelation 22:19), have the effect of
	marring the sense of the context and the comparison of passages
	together [BENGEL]. 
	his servants—not merely
	to "His servant John," but to all His servants
	(compare Revelation 22:3). 
	shortly—Greek,
	"speedily"; literally, "in," or "with
	speed." Compare "the time is at hand," Revelation 1:3;
	Revelation 22:6, "shortly"; Revelation 22:6- :, "Behold, I come quickly." Not that the
	things prophesied were according to man's computation near; but this
	word "shortly" implies a corrective of our estimate of
	worldly events and periods. Though a "thousand years" (Revelation 22:6- :) at least are included, the time is declared to be at
	hand. Luke 18:8, "speedily."
	The Israelite Church hastened eagerly to the predicted end, which
	premature eagerness prophecy restrains (compare Luke 18:8- :). The Gentile Church needs to be reminded of the
	transitoriness of the world (which it is apt to make its home) and
	the nearness of Christ's advent. On the one hand Revelation says,
	"the time is at hand"; on the other, the succession of
	seals, c., show that many intermediate events must first elapse. 
	he sent—Jesus Christ
	sent. 
	by his angel—joined
	with "sent." The angel does not come forward to "signify"
	things to John until Revelation 17:1
Revelation 19:9; Revelation 19:10.
	Previous to that John receives information from others. Jesus Christ
	opens the Revelation, Revelation 1:10;
	Revelation 1:11; Revelation 4:1;
	in Revelation 6:1 one of the four living
	creatures acts as his informant; in Revelation 6:1- :, one of the elders; in Revelation 10:8;
	Revelation 10:9, the Lord and His angel
	who stood on the sea and earth. Only at the end (Revelation 10:9- :) does the one angel stand by Him (compare Daniel 8:16;
	Daniel 9:21; Zechariah 1:19).