9. I John—So "I Daniel"
	(Daniel 7:28; Daniel 9:2;
	Daniel 10:2). One of the many
	features of resemblance between the Old Testament and the New
	Testament apocalyptic seers. No other Scripture writer uses the
	phrase. 
	also—as well as being
	an apostle. The oldest manuscripts omit "also." In his
	Gospel and Epistles he makes no mention of his name, though
	describing himself as "the disciple whom Jesus loved."
	Here, with similar humility, though naming himself, he does not
	mention his apostleship. 
	companion—Greek,
	"fellow partaker in the tribulation." Tribulation is the
	necessary precursor of the kingdom," therefore "the"
	is prefixed. This must be borne with "patient endurance."
	The oldest manuscripts omit "in the" before "kingdom."
	All three are inseparable: the tribulation, kingdom and endurance.
patience—Translate,
	"endurance." "Persevering, enduring continuance"
	(Acts 14:22); "the queen of
	the graces (virtues)" [CHRYSOSTOM].
	of, c.—The oldest
	manuscripts read "IN
	Jesus," or "Jesus Christ." It is IN
	Him that believers have the right to the kingdom, and the
	spiritual strength to enable them to endure patiently for it. 
	was—Greek, "came
	to be." 
	in . . . Patmos—now
	Patmo or Palmosa. See Acts 14:22- :
	on this island, and John's exile to it under Domitian, from which he
	was released under Nerva. Restricted to a small spot on earth, he is
	permitted to penetrate the wide realms of heaven and its secrets.
	Thus John drank of Christ's cup, and was baptized with His baptism
	(Matthew 20:22). 
	for—Greek, "for
	the sake of," "on account of"; so, "because of
	the word of God and . . . testimony." Two oldest manuscripts
	omit the second "for"; thus "the Word of God" and
	"testimony of Jesus" are the more closely joined. Two
	oldest manuscripts omit "Christ." The Apocalypse has been
	always appreciated most by the Church in adversity. Thus the Asiatic
	Church from the flourishing times of Constantine less estimated it.
	The African Church being more exposed to the cross always made much
	of it [BENGEL].