 12 .] The καί introduces a climax  I would (reff.)  that they who are unsettling you would even … As to  ἀποκόψονται , (1) it cannot be passive, as E. V., ‘  were even cut off .’ (2) It can hardly mean ‘  would cut themselves off from your communion ,’ as the  καί is against so mild a wish, besides that this sense of the word is unexampled. (3) There is certainly an allusion to ἐνέκοψεν in Galatians 5:7 , so that in  reading aloud the Greek, the stress would be, ὄφελ . κ .  ἀπο κόψονται οἱ ἀν . ὑμ . But (4) this allusion is one only of sound, and on account of the καί , all the more likely to be to some well-known and harsh meaning of the word,  even as far as to which the Apostle’s wish extends. And (5) such a meaning of the word is that in which (agreeably to its primitive classical sense, of hewing off limbs, see Lidd. and Scott) it is used by the LXX, ref. Deut., by Arrian, Epict. ii. 20, by Hesych., ὁ ἀπόκοπος , ἤτοι ὁ εὐνοῦχος by Philo, de legg. special. ad vi. vii. dec. cap. § 7, vol. ii. p. 306, τὰ γεννητικὰ προσαπέκοψαν , de vict. offerent. § 13, p. 261, θλαδίας κ . ἀποκεκομμένος τὰ γεννητικά (Wetst.). It seems to me that this sense  must be adopted , in spite of the protests raised against it; e.g. that of Mr. Bagge recently, who thinks it “involves a positive insult to St. Paul” (?). And so Chrys., and the great consensus of ancient and modern Commentators: and, as Jowett very properly observes, “the common interpretation of the Fathers, confirmed by the use of language in the LXX, is not to be rejected only because it is displeasing to the delicacy of modern times.”
	 ὄφελον is used in the N. T. as a mere particle: see reff.: also Hermann on Viger, p. 756 7, who says: “omnino observandum est, ὤφελον nonnisi tunc adhiberi, quum quis optat ut fuerit aliquid, vel sit, vel futurum sit, quod non fuit aut est aut futurum est.” The construction with a future is very unusual; in Lucian, Solœc. 1, ὄφελον καὶ νῦν ἀκολουθῆσαι δυνήσῃ is given as an example of a solœcism. I need hardly enter a caution against the punctuation of a few mss. and editions, by which ὄφελον is taken alone, and the following future supposed to be assertive, as βαστάσει above, Galatians 5:10 . The reff. will shew, how alien such an usage is from the usage of the N. T.
	 ἀναστατοῦντες , ἀνατρέποντες , Hesych. It belongs to later Greek: the classical expression is ἀνάστατον ποιεῖν , Polyb. iii. 81. 6 al.: or τιθέναι , Soph. Antig. 670: and it is said to belong to the Macedonian dialect. Ellic., referring to Tittmann, p. 266: where however I can find no such assertion.