 11 .] The connexion appears to be this: the Apostle had apparently been charged with being a favourer of circumcision in other churches; as shewn e.g. by his having circumcised Timothy. After the preceding sharp denunciation of ὁ ταράσσων ὑμᾶς , and ὅστις ἐὰν ᾖ , it is open to the adversaries to say, that Paul himself was one of their ταράσσοντες , by his inconsistency. In the abruptness then of his fervid thoughts he breaks out in this self-defence.  ἐγώ , emphatic as before.
	 περιτομήν has the chief emphasis, as the new element in the sentence, and not  κηρύσσω , as Chrys. ( οὐ γὰρ εἶπεν ὅτι περιτομὴν οὐκ ἐργάζομαι , ἀλλά , οὐ κηρύσσω , τουτέστιν , οὐχ οὕτω κελεύω πιστεύειν ), al., its position not allowing this. The first  ἔτι is best understood, as referring, not to any change in his preaching as an Apostle (for he appears always to have been of the same mind, and certainly was from the first persecuted by the Jews), but to the change since his conversion, before which he was a strenuous fautor of Judaism. Olsh. objects to this, that κηρύσσω could not be used of that period. But this (even if it be necessary to press κηρύσ . so far into matter of fact) cannot be said with any certainty: the course of Saul as a zealot may have often led him even to preach, if not circumcision in its present debated position, yet that strict Judaism of which it formed a part.
	 τί ἔτι διώκ  . ]  ἔτι is logical, as in reff. (De W.): i.e.,  what further excuse is there for my being (as I am)  persecuted (by the Jews)  ? For , if this is so, if I still preach circumcision, ἄρα ,  then is brought to nought , is done away,  the OFFENCE (reff. stumbling-block, σκάνδ . has the emphasis)  of the cross because, if circumcision, and not faith in Christ crucified, is the condition of salvation, then the Cross has lost its offensive character to the Jew: οὐδὲ γὰρ οὕτως ὁ σταυρὸς ἦν ὁ σκανδαλίζων τοὺς Ἰουδαίους , ὡς τὸ μὴ δεῖν πείθεσθαι τοῖς πατρῴοις νόμοις . καὶ γὰρ τὸν Στέφανον προσενέγκοντες , οὐκ εἶπον ὅτι οὗτος τὸν ἐσταυρωμένον προσκυνεῖ , ἀλλ ʼ ὅτι κατὰ τοῦ νόμου κ . τοῦ τόπου λέγει τοῦ ἁγίου . Chrys.