I am crucified with Christ [χριστω συνεσταυρωμαι] . This compound verb is used by Paul only here and Romans 6:6. In the gospels, Matthew 27:44; Mark 14:32; John 19:32. The statement explains how a believer dies to the law by means of the law itself. In the crucifixion of Christ as one accursed, the demand of the law was met (see Galatians 3:13). Ethically, a believer is crucified with Christ (Romans 6:3-11; Philippians 3:10; 1 Corinthians 14:31; 2 Corinthians 4:10), and thus the demand of the law is fulfilled in him likewise. Paul means that, "owing to his connection with the crucified, he was like him, legally impure, and was thus an outcast from the Jewish church." 54 He became dead to the law by the law 's own act. Of course a Jew would have answered that Christ was justly crucified. He would have said : "If you broke with the law because of your fellowship with Christ, it proved that both he and you were transgressors." But Paul is addressing Peter, who, in common with himself, believed on Christ (verse 16). I live; yet not I [ζω δε ουκετι εγω] . The semicolon after live in A. V. and Rev. should be removed. Rend : and it is no longer I that live, but Christ, etc. The new life of Christ followed his crucifixion, Romans 6:9-11. He who is crucified with Christ repeats this experience. He rises with Christ and shares his resurrection - life. The old man is crucified with Christ, and Christ is in him as the principle of his new life, Romans 4 - 11. 55 I now live. Emphasis on nun now, since the beginning of my Christian life, with an implied contrast with the life in the flesh before he was crucified with Christ. Then, the I was the center and impulse of life. Now, it is no longer I, but Christ in me. By the faith of the Son of God [εν πιστει τη του υιου του θεου] . Better, as Rev., in faith, the faith which is in the Son of God. Thus the defining and explicative force of the article th after pistei is brought out. In faith is better than by faith, although ejn is sometimes used instrumentally. In corresponds better with ejn sarki in the flesh. It exhibits faith as the element in which the new life is lived. And gave himself [και παραδοντος εαυτον] . Kai and has an explanatory force : loved me, and, as a proof of his love, gave himself. For paradontov gave, see on was delivered, Romans 4:25. "For God more bounteous was himself to give To make man able to uplift himself, Than if he only of himself had pardoned." Dante, Paradiso, 7 115 - 117 For me [υπερ εμου] . See on for the ungodly, Romans 5:6.