A. “The characteristics of the first beast,” Revelation 13:1-10.(a) It comes up out of the sea Revelation 13:1 - out of the commotion, the agitation of nations - a new power that springs up from those disturbed elements.(b) It has seven heads and ten horns, and upon its horns ten crowns or diadems, Revelation 13:1.(c) In its general form it resembles a leopard; its feet are like those of a bear; its mouth like that of a lion. Its connection with the great “dragon” - with Satan - is indicated by the statement that it derives its “power, and its seat, and its authority” from him Revelation 13:2 - a striking representation of the fact that the civil or secular Roman power which supported the church of Rome through all its corrupt and bloody progress was the putting forth of the power of Satan on the earth.(d) One of the heads of this beast is “wounded to death” - that is, with a wound that is in itself mortal. This wound is, however, in some way as yet unexplained, so healed that the vitality yet remains, and all the world pays homage to the beast, Revelation 13:3. A blow is aimed at this authority which seems to be fatal; and there is some healing or restorative process by which its power is recovered, and by which the universality of its dominion and influence is again restored.(e) The effect of this is, that the world renders homage really to the “dragon,” the source of this power, though in the form of adoration of the “beast,” Revelation 13:4. That is, while the outward homage is rendered to the “beast,” the real worship is that of the “dragon,” or Satan. This beast is regarded as: (1)Incomparable - “Who is like unto the ‘beast?’” and (2)Invincible - “Who is able to war with him?”(f) In this form the beast is endowed with a mouth that “speaks great things and blasphemies,” Revelation 13:5 - that is, the power here referred - to is arrogant, and reviles the God of heaven.(g) The time during which he is to continue is “forty and two months” - that is, twelve hundred and sixty days, or twelve hundred and sixty years. See the notes on Revelation 11:2.(h) The characteristics of this beast, and of his dominion, are these:Speaks like a dragon, Revelation 13:11; deceives those that dwell upon the earth, Revelation 13:14; is a persecuting power - causing those who would not worship the image of the first beast to be killed, Revelation 13:15.From this comparison of the two beasts, the following things are plain: (2)It is the same general domination prolonged - that is, the one is, in another form, but the continuation of the other. (3)The one becomes weak, or is in some way likely to lose its authority and power, and is revived by the other - that is, the other restores its waning authority, and sets up substantially the same dominion again over the earth, and causes the same great power to be acknowledged on the earth. (4)The one runs into the other; that is, one naturally produces, or is followed by the other. (5)One sustains the other. (6)They, therefore, have a very close relation to each other: having the same object; possessing the same general characteristics; and accomplishing substantially the same thing on the earth.What this was, will be better seen after the exposition of the chapter shall have been made. It may be sufficient here to remark, that, on the very face of this the Roman power suggested to the mind, as a mighty persecuting power, in the two forms of the civil and ecclesiastical authority, both having the same origin; aiming at the same object; the one sustaining the other; and both combined to keep up the dominion of the great enemy of God and man upon the earth. It is impossible, also, not to be struck with the resemblance, in many particulars, between this vision and that of Daniel Daniel 7:0, and to be impressed with the conviction that they are intended to refer to the same kingdom in general, and to the same events. But this will be made more manifest in the exposition of the chapter.