 8 10. ] The prohibition is against loving, and in any religious matter, using such titles, signifying dominion over the faith of others. It must be understood in the spirit and not in the letter. Paul calls Timotheus his ‘  son ’ in the faith, 1 Timothy 1:2 , and exhorts the Corinthians ( 1Co 11:1 ) to be followers of him as he of Christ. To understand and follow such commands in the slavery of the letter, is to fall into the very Pharisaism against which our Lord is uttering the caution. See (e.g.) Barnes’s note here.
	 ῥαββί = רַבִּי , my master: an expression used, and reduplicated as here, by  scholars to their masters , who were never called by their own name by their scholars. So the Lord says, John 13:13 , ὑμεῖς φωνεῖτέ με Ὁ διδάσκαλος κ . ὁ κύριος , καὶ καλῶς λέγετε , εἰμὶ γάρ . See Schöttgen, Hor. Heb. ii. 900. The Teacher is probably not  Christ , as supplied here in the rec [161] ., but the Holy Spirit (see John 14:26 ; Jeremiah 31:33-34 ; Eze 36:26-27 ), only  not here named , because this promise was only given in private  to the disciples . If this be so, we have God, in His Triunity, here declared to us as the only Father, Master, and Teacher of Christians; their πατήρ , καθηγητής (= ὁδηγὸς τυφλῶν Rom 2:19 ), and διδάσκαλος the only One, in all these relations, on whom they can rest or depend. They are all  brethren : all substantially equal  none by office or precedence nearer to God than another; none standing between his brother and God . ‘And the duty of all Christian teachers is to bring their hearers to the confession of the Samaritans in John 4:42 ; οὐκέτι διὰ τὴν σὴν λαλιὰν πιστεύομεν · αὐτοὶ γὰρ ἀκηκόαμεν , καὶ οἴδαμεν ὅτι οὗτός ἐστιν ἀληθῶς ὁ σωτὴρ τοῦ κόσμου .’ (Olshausen, Shristuz der einige Meister, p. 10, cited by Stier, ii. 444.)
	 [161] The  Textus Receptus or received text of the Greek Testament. Used in this Edition when elz and Steph agree
	 πατέρα μὴ κ  .   ὑμ  ., name not any Father of you on earth: no ‘  Abba ’ or ‘  Papa ’ (see the account of the funeral of John Wesley, Coke and More’s Life, p. 441, and the opening of the Author’s dedication of the book).