 35. ]  ὅπως  , not ‘  in such a way that ’ (?), as Webst. and Wilk.: but strictly ‘in order that.’
	 αἷμα δίκ  . or ἀθῷον is a common expression in the O.T. See 4 Kings Matthew 21:16 ; Matthew 24:4 : Jeremiah 33:1-26 :(26) 15; and more especially Lamentations 4:13 , which perhaps our Lord referred to in speaking this.
	 πᾶν αἷ  . ] Thus in Babylon, Revelation 18:24 , is found  the blood of all that were slain upon the earth . Every such signal judgment is the judgment for a series of long-crying crimes and these judgments do not exhaust God’s anger, Isaiah 9:12 ; Isaiah 9:17 ; Isaiah 9:21 .
	The  murder of Abel was the  first in the strife between unrighteousness and holiness, and as these Jews represent, in their conduct both in former times and now, the murderer of the first, they must bear the vengeance of the whole in God’s day of wrath.
	Who  Zacharias son of Barachias is has been much disputed. We may conclude with certainty that it cannot be (as Aug [162] and Greswell suppose) a  future Zacharias, mentioned by Josephus, B. J. iv. 5. 4, as son of Baruch, and slain in the temple just before the destruction of Jerusalem for our Lord evidently speaks of an event  past , and never  prophesies in this manner elsewhere. Origen has preserved a tradition (in Matt. Comm. Series, 24, vol. iii. p. 846), that  Zacharias father of John the Baptist was slain by them in the temple; but in the absence of all other authority, this must be suspected as having arisen from the difficulty of the allusion here. Most likely (see Lightfoot in loc. and note on Luk 11:49 ) it is  Zacharias the son of Jehoiada , who was killed there, 2 Chronicles 24:21 , and of whose blood the Jews had a saying, that it never was washed away till the temple was burnt at the captivity.
	 [162]  Augustine, Bp. of Hippo , 395 430
	 υἱοῦ Βαραχίου does not occur in Luke 11:51 , and perhaps was not uttered by the Lord Himself, but may have been inserted by mistake, as  Zacharias the prophet was son of Barachiah, see Zechariah 1:1 ; a circumstance suppressed by Bp. Wordsworth in his elaborate account of the mystical reason of the patronymic being used here, as “signifying Son of the Blessed, which was a name of Christ Himself.” See his note.
	 μετ  .   τ  .   ν  .   κ  .   τ  .   θ  . ] He was killed in the  priests’ court , where the altar of burnt-offerings was. On Matthew 23:36 , see note on ch. Matthew 24:34 . It is no objection to the interpretation there maintained, that the  whole period of the Jewish course of crime is not filled up by it: the  death of Abel can by no explanation be brought within its limits or responsibility; and our Lord’s saying reaches far deeper than a mere announcement of their responsibility for what  they themselves had done . The Jews stood in the  central point of God’s dealings with men ; and as they were the chosen for the election of grace, so, rejecting God and His messengers, they became, in an especial and awful manner, vessels of wrath.
	Our Lord mentions  this last murder , not as being the  last even before His own day, but  because it was connected specially with the cry of the dying man , ‘The Lord look upon it  and require it .’ Compare Genesis 4:10 . This death of Zacharias  was the last in the  arrangement of the Hebrew Canon of the O.T., though  chronologically that of Urijah, Jeremiah 26:23 , was later.