 14.   ἔβαλεν κατ  ʼ   αὐτῆς ] These difficult words have been taken in three ways: (1) (The common interpretation) referring αὐτῆς to τὴν Κρήτην just mentioned. Thus they might mean, ( α ) ‘  drove (  us )  against Crete ,’ or ( β ) ‘  struck (  blew )  against Crete ,’ i.e. in the direction of Crete. Now of these, ( α ) is contrary to the  expressed fact: they were  not driven against Crete . And ( β ) is as inconsistent with the  implied fact. Had the wind blown in the direction of Crete at all, they, who gave themselves up to it, and were driven before it ( ἐπιδόντες ἐφερόμεθα , Act 27:15 ), must have been  stranded on the Cretan coast, which they were not . (2) referring αὐτῆς to  the ship , understood. This is adopted by Dr. Bloomfield and Mr. Smith. (The latter, I find by a letter received since this note was written, now understands it as I have explained it below.) But not to mention the harshness occasioned by having to supply a subject for αὐτῆς which has never yet been mentioned, a decisive objection against this rendering is, that the ship throughout the narrative is τὸ πλοῖον , not ἡ ναῦς , in every place except Acts 27:41 , and τὸ πλ . occurs in the very next clause, which, had  this been meant of the ship, would certainly have been expressed συναρπασθείσης δέ , or συναρπασθείσης δὲ αὐτῆς . (3) referring αὐτῆς to προθέσεως . In that case ἔβαλεν κατ ʼ αὐτῆς must either ( α ) = κατέβαλεν ἡμᾶς ἀπ ʼ αὐτῆς , as Plato, Euthyph. 15 E, ἀπ ʼ ἐλπίδος με καταβαλὼν μεγάλης ἀπέρχει , which is harsh, and hardly allowable; or ( β ) be understood, taking the neuter sense of βάλλω ( ποταμὸς εἰς ἅλα βάλλων , Il. λ . 722), as meaning ‘  blew against it ,’so as to thwart their design. And so Luther: ‘  erhob sich wider ihr Bornehmen .’ But this mixture of literal and figurative is also harsh, and hardly allowable. (4) A method has occurred to me of rendering the words, which seems to remove all harshness, whether of reference in αὐτῆς , or of construction. There can be no question that the  obvious reference of αὐτῆς is to  Crete . What then is  ἔβαλεν κατ  ʼ   αὐτῆς ? ἔβαλεν applied to wind may be understood as above, neuter, or reflective, ‘  blew,’ ‘rushed .’ Assuming this, and that there is no object to be supplied between ἔβαλεν and the preposition, κατ ʼ αὐτῆς may surely be rendered, as in βῆ δὲ κατ ʼ Οὐλύμποιο καρήνων , κατ ʼ Ἰδαίων ὀρέων , κατὰ πέτρης , &c., viz.  down (from)  Crete , ‘  down the high lands forming the coast .’ It is a common expression in lake and coasting navigation, that ‘a gust came down the valleys.’ And this would be exactly the direction of the wind in question. When they had doubled, or perhaps were now doubling, Cape Matala, the wind suddenly changed, and the typhoon  came down upon them from the high lands ; at first, as long as they were sheltered, only by fits down the gullies, but as soon as they were in the open bay past the cape, with its full violence. This, the hurricane rushing down the high lands when first observed, and afterwards συναρπάζων τὸ πλοῖον , seems to me exactly to describe their changed circumstances in passing the cape. A confirmation of this interpretation may be found by Luke himself using κατέβη to express the descending of a squall from the hills on the lake of Gennesareth, Luke 8:23 , where Matt. and Mark have only ἐγένετο and γίνεται . Mr. Smith also suggests κατὰ τοῦ κρημνοῦ , Luke 8:33 , as confirmatory. The above is also Dean Howson’s view. See, in the excursus appended to the Prolegg. to Acts, the confirmation of this view in what actually happened to the Rev. G. Brown’s party.
	 τυφωνικός ] “The sudden change from a south wind to a violent northerly wind, is a common occurrence in these seas. (Captain J. Stewart, R.N., in his remarks on the Archipelago, observes, “It is always safe to anchor under the lee of an island with a northerly wind, as it dies gradually away; but it would be extremely dangerous  with southerly winds, as they almost invariably shift to a violent northerly wind .”) The term ‘  typhonic ’ indicates that it was accompanied by some of the phænomena which might be expected in such a case, viz. the agitation and whirling motion of the clouds caused by the meeting of the opposite currents of air when the change took place, and probably also of the sea, raising it in columns of spray. Pliny (ii. 48), speaking of ‘repentini flatus,’ says, ‘vorticem faciunt qui Typhon vocatur:’ Aul. Gell. xix. 1, ‘Turbines etiam crebriores … et figuræ quædam nubium tremendæ quas τυφῶνας vocabant.’ ” Smith, p. 60.
	 εὐρακύλων ] I have adopted the reading of [157] [158] [159] , according to my principle of going, in all cases where there is no overpowering objection, by our most ancient MSS. It may be that εὐρακύλων had become in common parlance corrupted into εὐροκλύδων , an anomalous word, having no assignable derivation, but perhaps arising from the Greek sailors having changed the Latin termination into one having significance for themselves. Mr. Smith, in his appendix, ‘On the Wind Euroclydon,’ has satisfactorily answered the objections of Bryant to the compound εὐρακύλων , by shewing that εὖρος properly, was not the S.E., but the E. wind; and that compounds of Greek and Latin in the names of winds are not unknown, e.g. Euro-Auster.
	 [157] The MS. referred to by this symbol is that commonly called the Alexandrine, or CODEX ALEXANDRINUS. It once belonged to Cyrillus Lucaris, patriarch of Alexandria and then of Constantinople, who in the year 1628 presented it to our King Charles I. It is now in the British Museum. It is on parchment in four volumes, of which three contain the Old, and one the New Testament, with the Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians. This fourth volume is exhibited open in a glass case. It will be seen by the letters in the inner margin of this edition, that the first 24 chapters of Matthew are wanting in it, its first leaf commencing ὁ νυμφίος , ch. Matthew 25:6 : as also the leaves containing ἵνα , John 6:50 , to καὶ σύ , John 8:52 . It is generally agreed that it was written at Alexandria; it does not, however,  in the Gospels , represent that commonly known as the Alexandrine text, but approaches much more nearly to the Constantinopolitan, or generally received text. The New Testament, according to its text, was edited, in uncial types cast to imitate those of the MS., by Woide, London, 1786, the Old Testament by Baber, London, 1819: and its N.T. text has now been edited in common type by Mr. B. H. Cowper, London, 1861. The date of this MS. has been variously assigned, but it is now pretty generally agreed to be the  fifth century .
	 [158] The CODEX VATICANUS, No. 1209 in the Vatican Library at Rome; and proved, by the old catalogues, to have been there from the foundation of the library in the 16th century. It was apparently, from internal evidence, copied in Egypt. It is on vellum, and contains the Old and New Testaments. In the latter, it is deficient from Heb 9:14 to the end of the Epistle; it does not contain the Epistles to Timothy, Titus, and Philemon; nor the Apocalypse. An edition of this celebrated codex, undertaken as long ago as 1828 by Cardinal Angelo Mai, has since his death been published at Rome. The defects of this edition are such, that it can hardly be ranked higher in usefulness than a tolerably complete collation, entirely untrustworthy in those places where it differs from former collations in representing the MS. as  agreeing with the received text. An 8vo edition of the N.T. portion, newly revised by Vercellone, was published at Rome in 1859 (referred to as ‘Verc’): and of course superseded the English reprint of the 1st edition. Even in this 2nd edition there were imperfections which rendered it necessary to have recourse to the MS. itself, and to the partial collations made in former times. These are (1) that of Bartolocci (under the name of Giulio de St. Anastasia), once librarian at the Vatican, made in 1669, and preserved in manuscript in the Imperial Library (MSS. Gr. Suppl. 53) at Paris (referred to as ‘Blc’); (2) that of Birch (‘Bch’), published in various readings to the Acts and Epistles, Copenhagen, 1798, Apocalypse, 1800, Gospels, 1801; (3) that made for the great Bentley (‘Btly’), by the Abbate Mico, published in Ford’s Appendix to Woide’s edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, 1799 (it was made on the margin of a copy of Cephalæus’ Greek Testament, Argentorati, 1524, still amongst Bentley’s books in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge); (4) notes of alterations by the original scribe and other correctors. These notes were procured for Bentley by the Abbé de Stosch, and were till lately supposed to be lost. They were made by the Abbate Rulotta (‘Rl’), and are preserved amongst Bentley’s papers in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge (B. 17. 20) 1 . The Codex has been occasionally consulted for the verification of certain readings by Tregelles, Tischendorf, and others. A list of readings examined at Rome by the present editor (Feb. 1861), and by the Rev. E. C. Cure, Fellow of Merton College, Oxford (April 1862), will be found at the end of these prolegomena. A description, with an engraving from a photograph of a portion of a page, is given in Burgon’s “Letters from Rome,” London 1861. This most important MS. was probably written in the  fourth century (Hug, Tischendorf, al.).
	 [159] The CODEX SINAITICUS. Procured by Tischendorf, in 1859, from the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mount Sinai. The Codex Frederico-Augustanus (now at Leipsic), obtained in 1844 from the same monastery, is a portion of the same copy of the Greek Bible, the 148 leaves of which, containing the entire New Testament, the Ep. of Barnabas, parts of Hermas, and 199 more leaves of the Septuagint, have now been edited by the discoverer. A magnificent edition prepared at the expense of the Emperor of Russia appeared in January, 1863, and a smaller edition containing the N.T. &c., has been published by Dr. Tischendorf. The MS. has four columns on a page, and has been altered by several different correctors, one or more of whom Tischendorf considers to have lived in the sixth century. The work of the original scribe has been examined, not only by Tischendorf, but by Tregelles and other competent judges, and is by them assigned to the  fourth  century . The internal character of the text agrees with the external, as the student may judge for himself from the readings given in the digest. The principal correctors as distinguished by Tischendorf are: A, of the same age with the MS. itself, probably the corrector who revised the book, before it left the hands of the scribe, denoted therefore by us א -corr 1 ; B (cited as א 2 ), who in the first page of Matt. began inserting breathings, accents, &c., but did not carry out his design, and touched only a few later passages; C a (cited as א 3a ) has corrected very largely throughout the book. Wherever in our digest a reading is cited as found in א 1 , it is to be understood, if no further statement is given, that C a altered it to that which is found in our text; C b (cited as א 3b ) lived about the same time as C a , i.e. some centuries later than the original scribe. These are all that we need notice here 6 .
	The direction of the wind is established by Mr. S., from what follows, to have been about  half a point N. of E.N.E. ; and the subsequent narrative shews that the wind  continued to blow from this point till they reached Malta .