 17. ]  ἄραντες ,  having taken on board .
	 βοηθείαις ]  measures to strengthen the ship , strained and weakened by labouring in the gale. Pliny (ii. 48) calls the typhoon ‘præcipua navigantium pestis, non antennas modo, verum ipsa navigia contorta frangens.’ Grot., Heinsius, &c., are clearly wrong in interpreting βοηθεί ., ‘  the help of the passengers .’
	 ὑποζωννύντες τ  .   πλ  . ]  undergirding , or  frapping the ship. “To frap a ship (  ceintrer un vaisseau ) is to pass four or five turns of a large cable-laid rope round the hull or frame of a ship, to support her in a great storm, or otherwise, when it is apprehended that she is not strong enough to resist the violent efforts of the sea: this expedient, however, is rarely put in practice.” Falconer’s Marine Dict.: Smith, p. 60, who brings several instances of the practice, in our own times. See additional ones in C. and H. ii. 404, f. Horace seems to allude to it, Od. i. 14. 3, ‘ac sine funibus Vix durare carinæ Possint imperiosius Æquor.’ See reff.
	 τὴν σύρτιν ]  The Syrtis , on the African coast; there were two, the greater and the lesser ( αἱ φοβεραὶ καὶ τοῖς ἀκούουσι Σύρτεις , Jos. B. J. ii. 16. 4), of which the former was the nearer to them.
	 ἐκπέσωσιν ] See reff. and add φερόμενοι τῷ πνεύματι … ἐξέπιπτον πρὸς τὰς πέτρας , Herodot. viii. 13.
	 χαλ  .   τ  .   σκεῦος ] “It is not easy to imagine a more erroneous translation than that of our authorized version: ‘Fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands, they strake sail, and so were driven.’ It is in fact equivalent to saying that, fearing a certain danger, they deprived themselves of the only possible means of avoiding it.” Smith, p. 67. He goes on to explain, that  if they had struck sail , they must have been driven  directly towards the Syrtis . They therefore set what sail the violence of the gale would permit them to carry, turning the ship’s head off shore, she having already been brought to on the starboard tack (right side to the wind). The adoption of this course would enable them to run before the gale, and yet keep wide of the African coast, which we know they did. But what is  χαλ  .   τὸ σκεῦος ? It is interpreted by Meyer, De W., and most Commentators, of  striking sail (as E.V.): but this (see above) could not be: “In a storm with a contrary wind or on a lee-shore, a ship is obliged to lie-to under a very low sail:  some sail is absolutely necessary to keep the ship steady, otherwise she would pitch about like a cork, and roll so deep as to strain and work herself to pieces.” Encycl. Brit. art. ‘Seamanship:’ Smith, p. 72, who interprets the words,  lowering the gear , i.e. sending down upon deck the gear connected with the fair-weather sails, such as the  suppara , or top-sails. A modern ship sends down top-gallant masts and yards, a cutter strikes her topmast, when preparing for a gale. In this case it was perhaps the heavy yard which the ancient ships carried, with the sail attached to it, and the heavy ropes, which would by their top-weight produce uneasiness of motion as well as resistance to the wind. See a letter addressed to Mr. Smith by Capt. Spratt, R.N., quoted in C. and H. ii. p. 405, note 5.
	 οὕτως ] i.e. “not only with the ship undergirded, and made snug, but with storm-sails set, and on the starboard tack, which was the only course by which she could avoid falling into the Syrtis.” Smith, ib.