 40. ] (1) They  cut away all four anchors (the περι may allude to the cutting round each cable in order to sever it, or to the going round and cutting all four), and left them in the sea ( εἰς τ . θάλ . ‘in the sea,  into which they had been cast’). This they did to save time, and not to encumber the waterlogged ship with their additional weight. (2) They let loose the ropes which tied up the rudders. “Ancient ships were steered by two large paddles, one on each quarter. When anchored by the stern in a gale, it would be necessary to lift them out of the water, and secure them by lashings or rudder bands, and to loose these bands when the ship was again got under way.” Smith, p. 101. (3) They raised ( ἐπαίρειν , ‘  to raise up ,’ contrary to κατέχειν , ‘  to haul down ,’ a sail) their ἀρτέμων to the wind. It would be impossible in the limits of a note to give any abstract of the long and careful reasoning by which Mr. Smith has made it appear that the ‘artemon’ was the  foresail of the ancient ships. I will only notice from him, that the rendering ‘  mainsail ’ in our E. V. was probably a mistaken translation from Bayfius or De Baif, the earliest of the modern writers ‘de re navali,’ and perhaps the only one extant when the translation was made: he says, “est autem artemon velum majus navis, ut in Actis Apost. xxvii … etenim etiam nunc nomen Veneti vulgo retinent et artemon vocant.” These words, ‘velum majus,’ they rendered by  mainsail ; whereas the  largest sail of the Venetian ships at the time was the  foresail . The French ‘artimon,’ even now in use, means the sail at the  stern (mizen). But this is no clue to the ancient meaning, any more than is our word  mizen to the meaning of the French  misaine , which is the foresail.
	The usual technical name of the foresail was δόλων , that of the mizen, ἐπίδρομος . See on the whole question, Smith’s Dissertation on the Ships of the Ancients, appended to his Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul. Mr. Pusey informs me that Syr. translates ἀρτέμωνα by ‘  armnon parvum ’ (  armnon being its word for σκεῦος , Act 27:17 ), and syr. in a note says that ἀρτέμων is “a small  armnon at the ship’s head.”
	 τῇ πνεούσῃ ] scil. αὔρᾳ . Dat. commodi; for the  wind (to fill); or (according to Meyer and De Wette) of direction,  to the wind , (4) They made for the beach. The expression, κατέχειν ( ναῦν or νηῒ ) εἰς … for “to steer to land,” is not uncommon in the classics: cf. examples in Wetst. It seems to get this meaning by a pregnant construction, “to keep the ship (or, to keep one’s course in the ship) in hand (and direct it) towards.…”