 7.   βραδυπλ  . ] It is evident that the ship was encountering an adverse wind. The distance from Myra to Cnidus is only 130 geogr. miles, which, with a fair wind, would not take more than one day. Mr. Smith shews that the wind was N.W., or within a few points of it. “We learn from the sailing directions for the Mediterranean, that, throughout the whole of that sea, but mostly in the eastern half, including the Adriatic and Archipelago, N.W. winds prevail in the summer months; … the summer Etesiæ come from the N.W. (p. 197); which agrees with Aristotle’s account of these winds, οἱ ἐτησίαι λεγόμενοι μέξιν ἔχοντες τῶν τε ἀπὸ τῆς ἄρκτου φερομένων κ . ζεφύρου , de Mundo, ch. 4. According to Pliny (ii. 47), they begin in August, and blow for forty days.”
	 μόλις ]  with difficulty : not as E. V., ‘  scarce ,’ which being also an adv. of  time , gives the erroneous idea to the English reader that the ship had  scarcely reached Cnidus when the wind became unfavourable.
	 γεν  .   κατά ]  having come over against , as E. V.
	 Κνίδον ] Cnidus is a peninsula at the entrance of the Ægean Sea, between the islands of Cos and Rhodes, having a lofty promontory and two harbours, Strabo, xiv. 2. “With N.W. winds the ship could work up from Myra to Cnidus; because, until she reached that point, she had the advantage of a weather shore, under the lee of which she would have smooth water, and, as formerly mentioned, a westerly current; but it would be slowly and with difficulty. At Cnidus that advantage ceased.” Smith, p. 37.
	 γὴ προσεῶντ .] The common idea has been that the prep. in composition implies that the wind would not suffer them to  put in at Cnidus. But this would hardly be reconcileable with the fact; for when off Cnidus they would be in shelter under the high land, and there would be no difficulty in putting in. I should be rather inclined to regard this clause as explaining the μόλις above, and the πρός in composition as implying  contribution , or  direction : ‘with difficulty, the wind not permitting us by favouring our course.’
	 ὑπεπλ . [see above on Act 27:4 ]  τ  .   Κρ  .   κ  .   Σαλμώνην ] “Unless she had put into that harbour (Cnidus), and waited for a fair wind, her only course was to run under the lee of Crete, in the direction of Salmone, which is the eastern extremity of that island.”
	Salmone (Capo Salomon) is described by Strabo (x. 4) as ὀξὺ ἀκρωτήριον τὸ Σαμώνιον , ἐπὶ τὴν Αἴγυπτον νεῦον , καὶ τὰς Ῥοδίων νήσους . Pliny (iv. 12) calls it Sammonium.