 1. ]  τοῦ (see reff.) contains the purpose of ἐκρίθη . The matter of the decision implied in ἐκρίθη is expressed in this form as if governed by the substantive κρίσις , as in ch. Acts 20:3 , ἐγένετο γνώμης τοῦ ὑποστρέφειν . Meyer remarks that the expressions κελεύειν ἵνα , εἰπεῖν ἵνα , θέλειν ἵνα , &c. are analogous.
	 ἡμᾶς ] Here we have again the  first person , the narrator having, in all probability, remained in Palestine, and in the neighbourhood of Paul, during the interval since ch. Acts 21:18 .
	 παρεδίδουν ]  Who ? perhaps the assessors with whom Festus took counsel on the appeal, ch. Acts 25:12 ; but more likely the plural is used indefinitely, the subject being ‘they,’ = ‘on’ (Fr.), or ‘man’ (Germ.).
	 ἑτέρους δ .] This expression, says Meyer, is purposely chosen, to intimate, that they were prisoners  of another sort (not also Christians under arrest). But De  W . shews this to be a mistake, by ἕτεραι πολλαί , Luke 8:3 , = ἄλλαι πολλαί , Mark 15:41 , in both places meaning ‘  many others of the same sort .’ Here also they are of the  same class , as far as δεσμῶται is concerned: further, nothing is implied in the narrative, one way or the other.
	 σπείρης σεβαστῆς ] There is some difficulty in determining what this cohort was. We must not fall into the mistake of several of the Commentators, that of confounding this σπ . σεβασ  τή with an ἵλη ἱππέων καλουμένη Σεβαστ  ηνῶν , mentioned by Josephus, B. J. ii. 12. 5, and Antt. xx. 6. 1, this latter implying ‘  natives of Samaria ’ ( Σεβαστή ), whereas our word is the same adjective as that name itself, and cannot by any analogy have reference to it. More than one of the  legions at different times bore the honorary title ‘Augusta.’ Wetst. quotes from Claudian de Bell. Gild [155] ‘Dictaque ab Augusto legio:’ from inscriptions in Mauritania, Legio III. Aug., II. Aug., VIII. Aug.: from Ptolemy, ii. 3, λεγεὼν δευτέρα σεβαστή (in Britain); iv. 3, λεγεὼν γ . σεβαστή ; but of a ‘  cohors Augusta,’ or ‘Augustana,’ we never hear. De Wette and Meyer suggest (but we have no historical proof of the supposition) that it was one among the five cohorts stationed at Cæsarea (see note, ch. Act 25:23 ) thus distinguished as the body-guard of the emperor (?), and therefore chosen for any services immediately concerning him, as in this case. Meyer thinks it may be the same (but then would the appellations be different?) with the σπεῖρα Ἰταλική of ch. Acts 10:1 . It is remarkable that almost all the Commentators have assumed, without any reason, that this σπ . σεβαστή must have been  stationed at Cæsarea , whereas it may well have been a cohort, or body of men so called, at Rome. Wieseler is the only one that I have seen who has not fallen into this error. He controverts the other interpretations (Chron. d. Apost.-g. note, p. 391), and infers that Julius belonged to the  Augustani , mentioned Tacitus xiv. 15, and Suet. Nero, 20 and 25 (see also Dio Cass. lxi. 20: ἦν μὲν γάρ τι καὶ ἴδιον αὐτῷ σύστημα ἐς πεντακισχιλίους στρατιώτας παρεσκευασμένον · Αὐγούστειοί τε ὠνομάζοντο · καὶ ἐξῆρχον τῶν ἐπαίνων , and lxiii. 8), who appear to have been identical with the  evocati (veterans specially summoned to service by the emperors), and to have formed Nero’s body-guard on his journey to Greece. The first levying of this band by Augustus, Dio relates, xlv. 12. To this Julius seems to have belonged, to have been sent on some service into Asia, and now to have been returning to Rome.
	 [155] Gild  as , fl. 581
	We read of a Julius Priscus, Prefect of the Prætorian guards under Vitellius, who killed himself ‘pudore magis quam necessitate,’ after the military murder by Mucianus of Calpurnius Galerianus. This was ten years after the date of our narrative; but the identity of the two must be only conjectural.