 12. ] See above on Acts 27:8 . The anchorage was sheltered from the N. W., but not from  nearly half the compass . Grotius and Heinsius’s rendering of πρὸς παραχειμ ., ‘ad vitandam tempestatem,’ is contrary to usage, besides being singularly inconsistent with the fact in more ways than one. For  this purpose the anchorage  was εὔθετος , and in it they had (see next verse) actually  ridden out the storm , before they left it.
	 ἐκεῖθεν ] The  κἀκεῖθεν of the rec. would be  thence also , as from their former stopping-places.
	 Φοίνικα ] Ptolemy (iii. 17) calls the haven Φοινικοῦς , and the city (lying some way inland) Φοῖνιξ . Strabo (x. 4) says, τὸ δὲ ἔνθεν ἰσθμός ἐστιν ὡς ἑκατὸν σταδίων , ἔχων κατοικίαν πρὸς μὲν τῇ βορείῳ θαλάττῃ Ἀμφιμάλλαν , πρὸς δὲ τῇ νοτίῳ Φοινικὴ τῶν Λαμπέων . This description, and the other data belonging to Phœnice, Smith (p. 48) has shewn to fit the modern  Lutro , which, though not known now as an anchorage, probably from the silting up of the harbour, is so marked in the French admiralty chart of 1738, and “if then able to shelter the smallest craft, must have been capable of receiving the largest ships seventeen centuries before.”
	See an inscription making it highly probable that Alexandrian ships did winter at Lutro, in the excursus at the end of Prolegg. to Acts.
	 βλέποντα κατὰ λίβα κ  .   κατὰ χῶρον ]  looking (literally)  down the S.W. and N.W. winds; i.e.  in the direction of these winds, viz. N.E. and S.E. For λίψ and χῶρος are  not quarters of the compass , but  winds ; and κατά , used with a wind, denotes the direction of its blowing,  down the wind . This interpretation, which I was long ago persuaded was the right one, I find now confirmed by the opinion of Mr. Smith, who cites Herod, iv. 110, ἐφέροντο κατὰ κῦμα καὶ ἄνεμον , and Arrian, Periplus Euxini, p. 3, ἄφνω νεφελὴ ἐπαναστᾶσα ἐξεῤῥάγη κατ ʼ εὖρον . So also κατὰ ῥόον , Herod, ii. 96. And in Jos. Antt. xv. 9. 6, the coasts near Cæsarea are said to be δύσορμα διὰ τὰς κατὰ λίβα προσβολάς . See also Thucyd. vi. 104. In the reff., the substantive is not one of motion like λίψ , χῶρος , or ῥόος , but of fixed location, as μεσημβρία , σκόπος . The  direction then is towards the  spot indicated, just as in the present case it is in that of the  motion indicated. The harbour of Lutro satisfies these conditions; and is even more decisively pointed out as being the spot by a notice in the Synecdemus of Hierocles, Φοινίκη ἤτοι Ἀράδενα · νῆσος Κλαῦδος . Now Mr. Pashley found a village called Aradhena a short distance above Lutro, and another close by called Anopolis, of which Steph. Byz. says, Ἀράδην πόλις Κρήτηι · ἡ δὲ Ἀνωπόλις λέγεται , διὰ τὸ εἶναι ἄνω . From these data it is almost demonstrated that the port of Phœnice is the present port of Lutro. Ptolemy’s longitude for port Phœnice also agrees. See Smith, pp. 51 ff. Mr. Smith has kindly sent me the following extract from a letter containing additional confirmation of the view: ‘Loutro is an excellent harbour; you open it unexpectedly, the rocks stand apart and the town appears within. During the Greek war, when cruising with Lord Cochrane, … chased a pirate schooner, as they thought, right upon the rocks; suddenly he disappeared, and when rounding in after him, like a change of scenery, the little basin, its shipping, and the town of Loutro, revealed themselves.’ See Prof. Hackett’s note, impugning the above view and interpretation; which however does not alter my opinion. Dean Howson gives his solution thus: “The difficulty is to be explained simply by remembering that sailors speak of every thing from their own point of view, and that the harbour (see chart in C. and H. ii. 397) does look  from the water towards the land which encloses it in the direction of S.W. and N.W.” But I cannot believe, till experience can be shewn to confirm the idea, that even sailors could speak of a harbour as ‘  looking ’ in the direction in which  they would look when entering it.