 16.   ὑποδραμόντες ]  running under the lee of .
	“St. Luke exhibits here as on every other occasion, the most perfect command of nautical terms, and gives the utmost precision to his language by selecting the most appropriate: they ran before the wind  to leeward of Clauda , hence it is  ὑπο δραμόντες : they sailed with a side wind  to leeward of Cyprus and Crete : hence it is  ὑπ επλεύσαμεν ” (Smith, p. 61, note).
	 Κλαῦδα ] Here again, there can be little doubt that the name of the island was Καῦδα , or Γαῦδα , as we have in some MSS., or, as in Pliny and Mela, Gaudos: but Ptol. (iii. 7) has Κλαῦδος , and the corruption was very obvious. The island is the modern Gozzo.
	 ἰσχύσαμ  .   μόλ . κ . τ . λ .] “Upon reaching Clauda, they availed themselves of the smooth water under its lee, to prepare the ship to resist the fury of the storm. Their first care was to secure the boat by hoisting it on board. This had not been done at first, because the weather was moderate, and the distance they had to go, short. Under such circumstances, it is not usual to hoist boats on board, but it had now become necessary. In running down upon Clauda, it could not be done, on account of the ship’s way through the water. To enable them to do it, the ship must have been rounded to, with her head to the wind, and her sails, if she had any set at the time, trimmed, so that she had no head-way, or progressive movement. In this position she would drift, broadside to leeward. I conclude they passed round the  east end of the island: not only because it was nearest, but because ‘an extensive reef with numerous rocks extends from Gozzo to the N. W., which renders the passage between the two isles very dangerous’ (Sailing Directions, p. 207). In this case the ship would be brought to on the starboard tack, i.e. with the right side to windward.” … “St. Luke tells us they had much difficulty in securing the boat. He does not say  why : but independently of the gale which was raging at the time, the boat had been towed between twenty and thirty miles after the gale had sprung up, and could scarcely fail to be filled with water.” Smith, pp. 64, 65.