 28. ]  φοβεῖσθαι ἀπό is a Hebraism, יָרֵא מִן . The  present indicates the  habit . On the  latter part of this verse much question has of late been raised, which never was, as far as I have been able to find, known to the older interpreters. Stier designates it as ‘the only passage of Scripture whose words may equally apply to God and the enemy of souls.’ He himself is strongly in favour of the  latter interpretation, and defends it at much length; but I am  quite unable to assent to his opinion . It seems to me  at variance with the connexion of the discourse , and with the  universal tone of Scripture regarding Satan . If such a phrase as φοβεῖσθαι τὸν διάβολον could be instanced as = φυλάξασθαι τὸν δ ., or if it could be shewn that any where power is attributed to Satan analogous to that indicated by ὁ δυνάμενος καὶ ψ . κ . σ . ἀπολέσαι ἐν γ ., I should then be open to the doubt whether he might not here be intended; but seeing that φοβεῖσθαι ἀπό indicating terror is changed into φοβεῖσθαι so usually followed by τὸν θεόν in a higher and holier sense (there is  no such contrast in Matthew 10:26 , and therefore that verse cannot be cited as ruling the meaning of this), and that GOD ALONE is throughout the Scripture the  Almighty dispenser of life and death both temporal and eternal , seeing also that Satan is ever represented as the  condemned of God, not ὁ δυν . ἀπολ ., I must hold by the general interpretation, and believe that both here and in Luk 12:3-7 our Heavenly Father is intended as the right object of our fear. As to this being inconsistent with the character in which He is brought before us in the next verse, the very change of construction in φοβεῖσθαι would lead the mind on, out of the terror before spoken of, into that better kind of fear always indicated by that expression when applied to God, and so prepare the way for the next verse. Besides, this sense is excellently in keeping with Mat 10:29 in another way. ‘Fear Him who is the only Dispenser of Death and Life: of  death , as  here; of  life , as in the case of the sparrows for whom He cares.’ ‘Fear Him, above men: trust Him, in spite of men.’
	In preparing my 2nd edn., I carefully reconsidered the whole matter, and went over Stier’s arguments with the connexion of the discourse before me, but found myself more than ever persuaded that it is quite impossible, for the above and every reason, to apply the words to the enemy of souls. The similar passage, James 4:12 , even in the absence of other considerations, would be decisive. Full as his Epistle is of our Lord’s words from this Gospel, it is hardly to be doubted that in εἷς ἐστιν ὁ νομοθέτης καὶ κριτής ,  ὁ δυνάμενος σῶσαι καὶ  ἀπολέσαι , he has this very verse before him. This Stier endeavours to escape, by saying that ἀπολέσαι  barely , as the opposite to σῶσαι , is far from being = ψυχὴν ἀπολέσαι in a context like this. But as connected with νομοθέτης καὶ κριτής , what meaning can ἀπολέσαι bear, except that of  eternal destruction? The strong things which he says, that his sense will only be doubted as long as men do not search into the depth of the context, &c. do not frighten me. The depth of this part of the discourse I take to be, the setting before Christ’s messengers their Heavenly Father as the sole object of childlike trust and childlike fear the former from His love, the latter from His power, His  power to destroy, it is not said,  them , but absolute,  body and soul , in hell. Here is the true depth of the discourse: but if in the midst of this great subject, our Lord is to be conceived as turning aside, upholding as an object of fear the chief enemy, whose ministers and subordinates He is at the very moment commanding us  not to fear , and speaking of  him (which would indeed be an “ ἅπαξ λεγόμενον horrendum”) as  ὁ δυνάμενος κ . ψ . κ . σῶ . ἀπολέσαι ἐν γεέννῃ , to my mind all true and deep connexion is broken. It is remarkable how Stier, who so eloquently defends the insertion of  ὅτι σοῦ ἡ δύναμις in the Lord’s Prayer, can so interpret here. Reichel (whose works I have not seen) seems by a note in Stier, p. 380, to maintain the above view even more strongly than himself. Lange also, in the Leben Jesu, ii. 2, p. 721, maintained this view: but has now, Bibelwerk, i. p. 150, retracted it for reasons the same as those urged here.