 5.   λέγων ] If we compare this verse with ch. Matthew 11:1 , there can be little doubt that this discourse of our Lord was  delivered at one time , and that, the  first sending of the Twelve . How often its solemn injunctions may have been repeated on similar occasions we cannot say: many of them reappear at the sending of the Seventy in Luke 10:2 ff.
	Its primary reference is to the  then Mission of the Apostles to prepare His way; but it includes, in the germ, instructions prophetically delivered for the ministers and missionaries of the Gospel  to the end of time . It may be divided into THREE GREAT PORTIONS, in each of which different departments of the subject are treated, but which follow in natural sequence on one another. In the FIRST of these ( Mat 10:5-15 ), our Lord, taking up the position of the messengers whom He sends from the declaration with which the Baptist and He Himself began their ministry, ὅτι ἤγγικεν ἡ βασιλεία τῶν οὐρανῶν , gives them commands,  mostly literal and of present import, for their mission to the cities of Israel . This portion concludes with a denunciation of judgment against that unbelief which should reject their preaching. The SECOND ( Mat 10:16-23 ) refers to the general mission of the Apostles as  developing itself, after the Lord should be taken from them, in preaching to Jews and Gentiles ( Mat 10:17-18 ), and subjecting them to persecutions ( Mat 10:21-22 ). This portion ends with the end of the apostolic period properly so called, Mat 10:23 referring primarily to the destruction of Jerusalem. In this portion there is a foreshadowing of what shall be the lot and duty of the teachers of the Gospel to the end, inasmuch as the ‘coming of the Son of Man’ is ever typical of His final coming to judgment. Still the direct reference is to the Apostles and their mission, and the other only by inference. The THIRD ( Mat 10:24-42 ), the longest and weightiest portion, is spoken  directly (with occasional reference only to the Apostles and their mission ( Mat 10:40 ))  of all disciples of the Lord , their position, their encouragements, their duties, and finally concludes with the last great reward ( Mat 10:42 ). In these first verses, 5, 6, we have the  location; in 7, 8, the  purpose; in 9, 10, the  fitting out; and in 11 14, the  manner of proceeding , of their mission: Mat 10:15 concluding with a prophetic denouncement, tending to impress them with a deep sense of the importance of the office entrusted to them.
	 Σαμαρειτῶν ] The Samaritans were the Gentile inhabitants of the country between Judæa and Galilee, consisting of heathens whom Shalmaneser king of Assyria brought from Babylon and other places. Their religion was a mixture of the worship of the true God with idolatry ( 2Ki 17:24-41 ). The Jews had no dealings with them, John 4:9 . They appear to have been not so unready as the Jews to receive our Lord and His mission (John 4:39-42 ; Luke 9:51 ff., and notes); but  this prohibition rested on judicial reasons. See Acts 13:46 . In Act 1:8 the prohibition is expressly taken off: ‘Ye shall be witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judæa,  and in Samaria , and unto the uttermost part of the earth.’ And in Acts 8:1 ; Acts 8:5 ; Acts 8:8 , we find the result; See ch. Matthew 15:21-28 .