 2. ] We have in the N.T.  four catalogues of the Apostles: the present one, at Mark 3:16 , Luke 6:14 , Acts 1:13 . All seem to follow one common outline, but fill it up very differently. The following table will shew the agreements and differences
	Matthew 10:2  . Mark 3:16  . Luke 6:14  . Acts 1:13  .  1 Σίμων Πέτρος 2 Ἀνδρέας Ἰάκωβος Ἀνδρέας Ἰωάννης 3 Ἰάκωβος Ἰωάννης Ἰάκωβος Ἰάκωβος 4 Ἰωάννης Ἀνδρέας Ἰωάννης Ἀνδρέας 5 Φίλιππος 6 Βαρθολομαῖος 7 Θωμᾶς Ματθαῖος Βαρθολομαῖος 8 Μαθθαῖος Θωμᾶς Ματθαῖος 9 Ἰάκωβος [ὁ τοῦ ] Ἀλφαίου 10 Λεββαῖος Θαδδαῖος Σίμων ὁ καλ. ζηλωτής Σίμων ὁ ζηλωτής 11 Σίμων ὁ καναναῖος Ἰούδας Ἰακώβου 12 Ἰούδας ἰσκαριώτης Ἰούδας Ἰσκαριώθ Vacant From this it appears (1), that in all four  three classes are enumerated, and that each class contains (assuming at present the identity of Λεββαῖος with Θαδδαῖος , and of Θαδδαῖος with Ἰούδας Ἰακώβον ) the  same persons in all four, but in different order, with the following exceptions: that (2)  Peter, Philip, James the (son?)  of Alphœus , and  Judas Iscariot hold the same places in all four. (3) That in the  first class the two arrangements are ( α ), that of Matt. and Luke (Gospel),  Peter and  Andrew, brothers; James and  John, brothers; i.e. according to their order of calling and connexion, and with reference to their being sent out in couples, Mark 6:7 ; ( β ) Mark and Luke (Acts),  Peter, James, John , (the three principal,) and  Andrew; i.e. according to their personal pre-eminence. In the  second class ( γ ), that of Matt., Mark, and Luke (Gospel),  Philip and  Bartholomew, Matthew and  Thomas (or, as given by Matthew himself,  Thomas and  Matthew ), i.e. in  couples: ( δ ) Luke (Acts),  Philip, Thomas, Barth., Matthew (reason uncertain). In the  third class ( ε ), Matt. and Mark,  James, the (son?)  of Alphœus and (  Lebb .)  Thaddæus, Simon the Cananœan and  Judas Iscariot; i.e. in  couples: ( ζ ) Luke (Gosp. and Acts)  James the (son?)  of Alphœus, Simon Zelotes, Judas Ἰακώβου and  Judas Iscariot (uncertain). ( η ) Thus in  all four , the leaders of the three classes are  the same , viz.  Peter, Philip , and  James the (son?)  of Alphœus; and the  traitor is always last. (4) It would appear then that the only difficulties are these two: the identity of Lebbæus with Thaddæus, and with Judas Ἰακώβου , and of Simon καναναῖος with Simon ὁ καλ . ζηλωτής. These will be discussed under the names.VacantΣίμων ὁ ζηλωτήςΣίμων ὁ καλ. ζηλωτήςΘαδδαῖοςΒαρθολομαῖοςΘωμᾶςἸωάννηςἈνδρέαςἸάκωβος
	 πρῶτος ] Not only as regards arrangement, or mere priority of calling, but as  primus inter pares . This is clearly shewn from James and John and Andrew being set next, and Judas Iscariot the last, in all the catalogues. We find Simon Peter, not only in the lists of the Apostles, but also in their history, prominent on various occasions before the rest. Sometimes he  speaks in their name (Matthew 19:27 ; Luk 12:41 ); sometimes  answers when all are addressed (Matthew 16:16 [111] ); sometimes our Lord addresses him as  principal , even among the three favoured ones (Matthew 26:40 ; Luk 22:31 ); sometimes he is addressed by others as  representing the whole (Matthew 17:24 ; Act 2:37 ). He appears as the  organ of the Apostles after our Lord’s ascension (Acts 1:15 ; Acts 2:14 ; Acts 4:8 ; Act 5:29 ): the first speech, and apparently that which decided the Council, is spoken by him, Acts 15:7 . All this accords well with the bold and energetic character of Peter, and originated in the unerring discernment and appointment of our Lord Himself, who saw in him a person adapted to take precedence of the rest in the founding of His Church, and shutting (Acts 5:3 ; Act 5:9 ) and opening (Acts 2:14 ; Acts 2:41 ; Acts 10:5 ; Act 10:46 ) the doors of the kingdom of Heaven. That however no such idea was current among the Apostles as that he was destined to be the  Primate of the future Church is as clear as the facts above mentioned. For (1)  no trace of such a pre-eminence is found in all the Epistles of the other Apostles; but when he is mentioned, it is either, as 1 Corinthians 9:5 , as one of the Apostles, one example among many, but in no wise the chief; or as in Galatians 2:7-8 , with a distinct account of a peculiar province of duty and preaching being allotted to him, viz. the apostleship of the circumcision, (see 1 Peter 1:1 ,) as distinguished from Paul, to whom was given the apostleship of the uncircumcision: or as in Galatians 2:9 , as one of the principal στύλοι , together with James and John; or as in Galatians 2:11 , as subject to rebuke from Paul as from an equal. And (2)  wherever by our Lord Himself the future constitution of His Church is alluded to, or by the Apostles its actual constitution, no hint of any such primacy is given , (see note on Matthew 16:18 ,) but the whole college of Apostles are spoken of as absolutely equal. Matthew 19:27-28 ; Matthew 20:26 ; Matthew 20:28 ; Ephesians 2:20 , and many other places. Again (3)  in the two Epistles which we have from his own hand, there is nothing for, but every thing against, such a supposition . He exhorts the πρεσβύτεροι as being their συμπρεσβύτερος ( 1Pe 5:1 ): describes himself as τῆς μελλούσης ἀποκαλύπτεσθαι δόξης κοινωνός : addresses his second Epistle τοῖς ἰσότιμον ἡμῖν λαχοῦσιν πίστιν ( 2Pe 1:1 ): and makes not the slightest allusion to any pre-eminence over the other Apostles.
	 [111] When, in the Gospels, and in the Evangelic statement, 1 Corinthians 11:23-25 , the sign (║) occurs in a reference, it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in the other Gospels, which will always be found indicated  at the head of the note on the paragraph. When the sign (║) is  qualified , thus, ‘║ Mk.,’ or ‘║ Mt. Mk.,’ &c., it is signified that the word occurs  in the parallel place in that Gospel or Gospels, but not in the other or others .
	So that πρῶτος here must be understood as signifying the prominence of Peter among the Apostles, as well as his early calling. (See John 1:42 .)
	 ὁ λεγόμενος Πέτρος ] Or Κηφᾱς , כֵּיפָא , so named by our Lord Himself (John as above) at His first meeting with him, and again more solemnly, and with a direct reference to the meaning of the name, Matthew 16:18 .
	 Ἀνδρέας ] He, in conjunction with John (see note on Joh 1:37-41 ), was a disciple of the Baptist, and both of them followed our Lord, on their Master pointing Him out as the Lamb of God. They did not however from that time constantly accompany Him, but received a more solemn calling (see Matthew 4:17-22 ; Luk 5:1-11 ) in the narrative of which Peter is prominent, and so πρῶτος called as an Apostle, at least, of those four.
	 Ἰάκ  .   ὁ τ  .   Ζ  .   κ  .   Ἰωάν  . ] Partners in the fishing trade with Peter and Andrew, Luke 5:10 .