 22.   πάντων ] i.e.  all else but yourselves; not, as De Wette so often interprets, ‘a strong expression, intended to signify  many , or  the majority of mankind .’
	 ὁ δὲ ὑπομ  . ] In order to understand these words it is necessary to enter into the character of our Lord’s prophecies respecting His coming, as having an  immediate literal , and a  distant foreshadowed fulfilment. Throughout this discourse and the great prophecy in ch. 24, we find the first apostolic period used as a type of the whole ages of the Church; and the vengeance on Jerusalem, which historically put an end to the old dispensation, and was in its place with reference to that order of things, the coming of the Son of Man, as a type of the final coming of the Lord. These two subjects accompany and interpenetrate one another in a manner wholly inexplicable to those who are unaccustomed to the wide import of Scripture prophecy, which speaks very generally not so much of  events themselves, points of time , as of  processions of events, all ranging under one great description. Thus in the present case there is certainly direct reference to the destruction of Jerusalem; the τέλος directly spoken of is that event, and the σωθήσεται the preservation provided by the warning afterwards given in ch. Matthew 24:15-18 . And the next verse directly refers to the journeys of the Apostles over the actual cities of Israel, territorial, or where Jews were located. But as certainly do all these expressions look onwards to the great final coming of the Lord, the τέλος of all prophecy; as certainly the σωθήσεται here bears its full scripture meaning, of  everlasting salvation; and the endurance to the end is the  finished course of the Christian; and the precept in the next verse is to apply to the conduct of Christians of all ages with reference to persecution, and the announcement that hardly will the Gospel have been fully preached to all nations (or, to all the  Jewish nation , i.e.  effectually ) when the Son of Man shall come. It is most important to keep in mind the  great prophetic parallels which run through our Lord’s discourses, and are sometimes separately, sometimes simultaneously, presented to us by Him. That the tracing out and applying such parallels should be called by such expositors as Meyer, ‘  lauter wortwidrige und nothgedrungene Ausflúchte ’ (Com. i. 211), is just as if a man should maintain that a language unknown to him had therefore no meaning.