 3.   Φίλ  .   κ  .   Βαρθ  . ] Philip was called by our Lord the second day after the visit of Andrew and John, and the day after the naming of Peter. He was also of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter, James and John.
	Ἀνδρέας and Φίλιππος are Greek names. See John 12:20-22 .
	Βαρθολομαῖος בַּר תַּלְמַי , son of Talmai or Tolomæus, has been generally supposed to be the same with Nathanael of Cana in Galilee; and with reason: for (1) the name Bartholomew is not his own name, but a patronymic: (2) He follows next in order, as  Nathanael , in John 1:46 , to the Apostles just mentioned, with the same formula which had just been used of Philip’s own call ( Joh 1:44 ), εὑρίσκει Φίλιππος τὸν Ναθ .: (3) He is there, as here, and in Mark and Luke (Gospel),  in connexion with Philip (that he was his  brother , was conjectured by Dr. Donaldson; but rendered improbable by the fact that John in the case of Andrew a few verses above, expressly says εὑρίσκει τὸν ἀδελφὸν τὸν ἴδιον Σίμωνα , whereas in Joh 1:46 no such specification is found): (4) In John 21:2 , at the appearance of our Lord on the shore of the sea of Tiberias, Nathanael is mentioned as present, where seven Apostles ( μαθηταί ) are recounted.
	 θωμᾶς κ. Μαθθ. ὁ τελ. ] Thomas ( תָּאֹם ), in Greek Δίδυμος , John 11:16 ; John 20:24 ; John 21:2 . Μαθθ . ὁ τελ . is clearly by this appellation identified with the Matthew of ch. Matthew 9:9 . We hear nothing of him, except in these two passages. Dr. Donaldson (Jashar. p. 10 f.) believed Matthew and Thomas to have been twin brothers. Eus [112] , H. E. i. 13, preserves a tradition that Thomas’s real name was Judas: Θωμᾶς , ὁ καὶ Ἰούδας .
	 [112] Eusebius, Bp. of Cæsarea, 315 320
	 Ἰάκ  .   ὁ τ  .   Ἀλφαίου ] From John 19:25 , some infer (but see note there), that Mary the (wife?) of Κλωπᾶς was sister of Mary the mother of our Lord. From Mark 15:40 , that Mary was the mother of James τοῦ μικροῦ , which may be this James. Hence it would appear, if these two passages point to the same person, that Ἀλφαῖος = Κλωπᾶς . And indeed the two Greek names are but different ways of expressing the Hebrew name חַלְפַי . If this be so, then this James the Less  may possibly be the ὁ ἀδελφὸς τοῦ κυρίου mentioned Gal 1:19 apparently as an Apostle, and one of the ἀδελφοὶ αὐτοῦ mentioned Matthew 13:55 (where see note) (?). But on the difficulties attending this view, see note on John 7:5 .
	 Λεββαῖος ] Much difficulty rests on this name, both from the various readings, and the questions arising from the other lists. The rec [113] . reading appears to be a conjunction of the two ancient ones, Λεββαῖος and Θαδδαῖος : the latter of these having been introduced from Mark. (But it is noticeable, that in Mark [114] has Λεββαῖος .) Whichever of these is the true reading, the Apostle himself has generally been supposed to be identical with Ἰούδας Ἰακώβου in both Luke’s catalogues, i.e. (see note there) Judas the brother (Dr. Donaldson supposed  son: see note on Luk 24:13 ) of James, and so son of Alphæus, and commonly supposed to be (?) one of the ἀδελφοὶ κυρίου named Matthew 13:55 . In Joh 14:22 we have a ‘Judas, not Iscariot,’ among the Apostles: and the catholic epistle is written by a ‘Judas brother of James.’ What in this case the names Λεββαῖος and Θαδδαῖος are, is impossible to say. The common idea that they are cognate names, Λεβ . being from לֵב , heart, and Θαδ . from תַּד , breast, is disproved by De Wette, who observes that the latter signifies  mamma , and not  pectus . So that the whole rests on conjecture, which however does not contradict any known fact, and may be allowed as the only escape from the difficulty.
	 [113] The  Textus Receptus or received text of the Greek Testament. Used in this Edition when elz and Steph agree
	 [114] The CODEX CANTABRIGIENSIS, or BEZÆ, so called because it was presented by Beza in 1581 to the University Library at Cambridge; where it is now exposed to view in a glass case. He procured it in 1562, from the monastery of St. Irenæus at Lyons. It is on parchment, and contains the Gospels and Acts, with a Latin version. Its lacunæ, which are many, will be perceived by the inner marginal letters in this edition. It once contained the Catholic Epistles: 3Jn 1:11-14 in Latin is all that now remains. It was edited with very accurate imitative types, at the expense of the University of Cambridge, by Dr. Kipling, in 1793. A new edition carefully revised and more generally accessible was published by Mr. Scrivener in 1864, and has been collated for this Edition. In the introduction some ten or twelve correctors are distinguished, whose readings are found in the notes at the end of the volume. The text of the Codex Bezæ is a very peculiar one, deviating more from the received readings and from the principal manuscript authorities than any other. It appears to have been written in France, and by a Latin transcriber ignorant of Greek, from many curious mistakes which occur in the text, and version attached. It is closely and singularly allied to the ancient Latin versions, so much so that some critics have supposed it to have been altered from the Latin: and certainly many of the phænomena of the MS. seem to bear out the idea. Where D differs in unimportant points from the other Greek MSS., the difference appears to be traceable to the influence of Latin forms and constructions. It has been observed, that in such cases it frequently agrees with the Latin codex  e (see the list further on). Its peculiarities are so great, that in many passages, while the sense remains for the most part unaltered, hardly three words together are the same as in the commonly received text. And that these variations often arise from capricious alteration, is evident from the way in which the Gospels, in parallel passages, have been more than commonly interpolated from one another in this MS. The concurrence with the ancient Latin versions seems to point to a very early state of the text; and it is impossible to set aside the value of D as an index to its history; but in critical weight it ranks the lowest of the leading MSS. Its age has been very variously given: the general opinion now is that it was written in the  latter end of the fifth or the sixth century .