 13 .]  Wherefore (since our foes are in power too mighty for us, and in dwelling, around and above us)  take up (i.e. not ‘to the battle,’ but ‘to put on:’ ‘frequens est ἀναλαμβάνειν de armis;’ Kypke in loc. He refers to Diod. Sic. xx. 33, ἕκαστοι τὰς πανοπλίας ἀνελάμβανον ἐπὶ τὴν τοῦ φονεύσαντος τιμωρίαν , and many places in Josephus. See also Wetst.)  the entire armour of God (see on Eph 6:11 )  that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day (not as Chrys.,  ἡμέραν πονηρὰν τὸν παρόντα βίον φησί for then the evil day would be upon the Christian before he has on the armour; the ἀεὶ ὁπλίζεσθε of Chr., if taken literally, would be but a poor posture of defence. Nor again can his view stand, ἀπὸ τοῦ χρόνου παραμυθεῖται · βραχύς , φησίν , ὁ καιρός evidently no such point is raised in the following exhortations, but rather the contrary is implied a long and weary conflict. The right interpretation is well given by Bengel “Bellum est perpetuum: pugna alio die minus, alio magis fervet.  Dies malus , vel ingruente morte, vel in vita: longior, brevior, in se ipso sæpe varius, ubi Malus vos invadit, et copiæ malignæ vos infestant, Eph 6:12 ”),  and having accomplished all things (requisite to the combat: being fully equipped and having bravely fought. The words must not be taken in the sense of, ‘  omnibus debellatis ,’ as if  κατεργασάμενοι = καταπολεμήσαντες (so Chrys. ἅπαντα τουτέστι , καὶ πάθη κ . ἐπιθυμίας ἀτόπους κ . τὰ ἐνοχλοῦντα ἡμῖν ἅπαντα ), nor again, understood of  preparation only (= παρασκευασάμενοι , 1Co 14:8 ) as Erasm., Beza, Bengel, al. To finish, or accomplish, is the invariable Pauline usage of the word when taken in a good sense)  to stand firm (at your post: as Estius, reporting others, ‘ut posteaquam omnia quæ boni militis sunt, perfeceritis, stare et subsistere possitis:’ that you may not, after having done your duty well in battle, fall off, but stand your ground to the end. The other interpretation, ‘stare tanquam triumphatores,’ is precluded by what has been said above).