 14 .]  Stand therefore (whether ‘ready for the fight,’ or ‘in the fight,’ matters very little: all the aoristic participles are in time antecedent to the στῆτε and the fight ever at hand),  having girt about your loins with (  ἐν , not instrumental, but  local : the girt person is within, surrounded by, the girdle: but this is necessarily expressed in English by ‘  with ’)  truth (not  truth objective , which is rather the ῥῆμα θεοῦ below, Ephesians 6:17 : but ‘  truthfulness ,’ subjective truth: to be understood however as based upon the faith and standing of a Christian, necessarily  his truthfulness  in his place in Christ . As the girdle (hardly here, however true that may have been, to be regarded as carrying the sword, for that would be confusing the separate images, cf. Eph 6:17 ) kept all together, so that an ungirded soldier would be (see Mey.) a contradiction in terms, just so Truth is the band and expediter of the Christian’s work in the conflict, without which all his armour would be but encumbrance. Gurnall’s notion (Christian Armour, vol. i. p. 378), that ‘the girdle is used as an ornament, put on uppermost, to cover the joints of the armour, which would, if seen, cause some uncomeliness’ (see also Harl. ‘  sie ist des Christen Schmuck ’), is against the context, and against the use of the phrase  ζωνν  .   τ  .   ὀσφ  . in the N. T.),  and having put on the breastplate of righteousness (see ref. Isa., and Wis 5:19 . As in those passages, righteousness  is the breastplate the genitive here being one of apposition. The righteousness spoken of is that of Rom 6:13 the purity and uprightness of Christian character which is the result of the work of the Spirit of Christ; the inwrought righteousness of Christ, not merely the imputed righteousness),  and having shod your feet (as the soldier with his sandals cf. the frequent description of arming in Homer ποσσὶ δ ʼ ὑπαὶ λιπαροῖσιν ἐδήσατο καλὰ πέδιλα . The Roman  caliga may be in the Apostle’s mind: see on Eph 6:11 )  with (local again, not instrumental: see on Eph 6:14 )  the (article omitted after ἐν )  readiness (the uses of  ἑτοιμασία (‘in classical Greek, ἑτοιμότης , Dem. 1268. 7.’ Mey.) in Hellenistic Greek are somewhat curious, and may have a bearing on this passage. In Psalms 9:17 , it has the sense of  inward ‘preparedness ,’ τὴν ἑτοιμασίαν τῆς καρδίας ( τῶν πενήτων ) of  outward , in Jos. Antt. x. 1. 2, δισχιλίους … ἵππους εἰς ἑτοιμασίαν ὑμῖν παρέχειν ἕτοιμός εἰμι : of  preparation , in an active sense, Wis 13:12 , τὰ ἀποβλήματα τῆς ἐργασίας εἰς ἑτοιμασίαν τροφῆς ἀναλώσας ἐνεπλήσθη : in Ezra 2:68 , it answers to the Heb. מָכוֹן , a foundation, τοῦ στῆσαι αὐτὸν (the temple) ἐπὶ τὴν ἑτοιμασίαν αὐτοῦ , see also Psalms 88:14 , δικαιοσ . κ . κρίμα ἑτοιμασία τοῦ θρόνου σου , and Dan 11:7 Theod. From this latter usage (which can hardly be a mistake of the translators, as Mey. supposes) some (Beza, Bengel, al.) have believed that as the  ὑποδήματα are the lowest part of the panoply, the same meaning has place here: but no good sense seems to me to be gained: for we could not explain it ‘pedes militis Christiani  firmantur Evangelio , ne loco moveatur,’ as Beng. Nor again can it mean the  preparation (  active ) of the Gospel, or  preparedness to preach the Gospel, as Chrys. and most Commentators (‘shod as ready messengers of the glad tidings of peace,’ Conyb.), for the persons addressed were not teachers, but the whole church. The only refuge then is in the genitive subjective, ‘  the preparedness of ,’ i.e. arising from, suggested by ‘  the Gospel of peace ;’ and so Œc. (2), Calv., Harl., Olsh., De W., Mey., Ellic., al.)  of the Gospel of peace (the Gospel whose message and spirit is peace: so ὁ μῦθος ὁ τῆς ἐπιστήμης , Plato, Theæt. p. 147 c: see Bernhardy, p. 161),  besides all (not as E. V. ‘  above all,’ as if it were the most important: nor as Beng., al. ‘  over all ,’so as to cover all that has been put on before: see especially reff. to Luke. And the  all , as no τούτοις is specified, does not apply only to ‘quæcunque indu  istis ’ (Beng.), but generally, to all things whatever. But it is perhaps doubtful, whether ἐν πᾶσιν ought not to be read: in which case it will be “  in all things ,” i.e. on all occasions)  having taken up (see on Eph 6:13 )  the shield ( θυρεός , ‘scutum:’ οἷόν τις θύρα φυλάττων τὸ σῶμα : the large oval shield, as distinguished from the small and light buckler, ἀσπίς ,‘clypeus.’ Polybius in his description ( Eph 6:23 ) of the Roman armour, which should by all means be read with this passage, says of the θυρεός , οὗ τὸ μὲν πλάτος ἐστὶ τῆς κυρτῆς ἐπιφανείας πένθ ʼ ἡμιποδίων · τὸ δὲ μῆκος , ποδῶν τεττάρων . Kypke quotes from Plutarch, that Philopœmen persuaded the Achæans, ἀντὶ μὲν θυρεοῦ καὶ δόρατος ἀσπίδα λαβεῖν καὶ σάρισσαν . He adduces examples from Josephus of the same distinction, which Phryn. p. 366, ed. Lob., states to have been unknown to the ancients, as well as θυρεός in this sense at all. See Lobeck’s note, and Hom. Od. i. 240)  of (genitive of apposition)  faith, in which (as lighting on it and being quenched in it; or perhaps (as Ellic. altern. with the above), “as protected by and under cover of which”)  you shall be able (not as Mey., to be referred to the last great future fight but used as stronger than ‘in which ye may,’ &c., implying the certainty that the shield of faith will at all times and in all combats quench &c.)  to quench all the fiery darts (cf. Psalms 7:13 , τὰ βέλη αὐτοῦ τοῖς καιομένοις ἐξειργάσατο : Herod. viii. 52, ὅκως στυπεῖον περὶ τοὺς ὀϊστοὺς περιθέντες ἅψειαν , ἐτόξευον ἐς τὸ φράγμα : Thucyd. ii. 75, καὶ προκαλύμματα εἶχε δέῤῥεις καὶ διφθέρας , ὥστε τοὺς ἐργαζομένους καὶ τὰ ξύλα μήτε  πυρφόροις ὀϊστοῖς βάλλεσθαι , εἰς ἀσφάλειάν τε εἶναι , and other examples in Wetst. Apollodorus, Bibl. ii. 4, uses the very expression, τὴν ὕδραν … βαλὼν  βέλεσι πεπυρωμένοις .… Appian calls them πυρφόρα τοξεύματα . The Latin name was  malleoli . Ammianus Marcellin. describes them as cane arrows, with a head in the form of a distaff filled with lighted material. Wetst. ib. The idea of Hammond, Bochart, al., that  poisoned darts are meant (‘  causing fever ’), is evidently ungrammatical. See Smith’s Dict. of Antiq. art. Malleolus, and Winer, Realw. ‘Bogen.’ If the art.  τά be omitted, a different turn must be given to the participle, which then becomes predicative: and we must render, ‘  when inflamed ,’ even in their utmost malice and fiery power)  of the wicked one (see reff. and notes on Matthew 5:37 ; John 17:15 . Here, the conflict being personal, the adversary must be not an abstract principle, but a concrete person).