 2 .]  Honour thy father and thy mother, for such is (‘  seeing it is ,’ as Ellic., is rather too strong for  ἥτις , throwing the motive to obedience too much on the fact of the promise accompanying it. Whereas the obedience rests on the fact implied in ἐντολή , and the promise comes in to shew its special acceptableness to God)  the first commandment (in the decalogue, which naturally stands at the head of all God’s other commandments; and which, though not formally binding on us as Christians, is quoted, in matters of eternal obligation (not of positive enactment), as an eminent example of God’s holy will)  with a promise (i.e. with a special promise attached: ‘in respect of promise’ is too vague, and does not convey any definite meaning in English. The fact certainly is so, and the occurrence of the description of God as ‘shewing mercy unto thousands, &c.’ after the second commandment, does not, as Jer., al., have thought, present any difficulty for that is no special promise attached to the commandment. Nor does the fact that no other commandment occurs in the  decalogue with a promise: see above. The  ἐν , as in reff. in the sphere or department of characterized by accompanied with),  that it may be well with thee, and thou be long-lived upon the earth (he paraphrases the latter portion of the commandment, writing for ἵνα μακρ . γένῃ , ἔσῃ μ ., and omitting after γῆς , ( τῆς ἀγαθῆς , so in Exod., but not in Deut.) ἧς κύριος ὁ θεός σου δίδωσίν σοι : thus adapting the promise to his Christian readers, by taking away from it that which is special and peculiar to the Jewish people. It is surely a mistake, as Jer., Aq., Est., Olsh., to spiritualize the promise, and understand by τῆς γῆς the heavenly Canaan. The very fact of the omission of the special clause removes the words from the region of type into undoubted reality: and when we remember that the persons addressed are τὰ τέκνα , we must not depart from the simplest Sense of the words. For the future after ἵνα , see 1 Corinthians 9:18 , note: and John 7:3 ; Revelation 22:14 . To consider it as such, is far better than to suppose a change of construction to the direct future ‘and thou shalt be, &c.’).