 4 .]  And ye, fathers (the mothers being included, as ὑποτασσόμεναι τοῖς ἰδίοις ἀνδράσιν they being the fountains of domestic rule: not for any other less worthy reason, to which the whole view of the sexes by the Apostle is opposed),  irritate not ( οἷον , says Chrys., οἱ πολλοὶ ποιοῦσιν , ἀποκληρονόμους ἐργαζόμενοι , καὶ ἀποκηρύκτους ποιοῦντες , καὶ φορτικῶς ἐπικείμενοι , οὐχ ὡς ἐλευθέροις ἀλλ ʼ ὡς ἀνδραπόδοις . But the Apostle seems rather to allude to provoking by vexatious commands, and unreasonable blame, and uncertain temper, in ordinary intercourse: cf. Col 3:21 )  your children, but bring them up (see on ch. Ephesians 5:29 , where it was used of physical fostering up: and cf. Plato, Rep. p. 538 c, περὶ δικαίων κ . καλῶν , ἐν οἷς ἐκτεθράμμεθα ὡς ὑπὸ γονεῦσι )  in (as the sphere and element: see Plato above)  the discipline and admonition (‘  παιδεία hic significare videtur institutionem per pœnas:  νουθεσία autem est ea institutio quæ fit verbis.’ Grot. Such indeed is the general sense of παιδεία in the LXX and N. T., the word having gained a deeper meaning than mere ‘eruditio,’ by the revealed doctrine of the depravity of our nature: see Trench, Syn. § 32. Ellic. remarks, that this sense seems not to have been unknown to earlier writers, e.g. Xen. Mem. i. 3. 5, διαίτῃ τήν τε ψυχὴν ἐπαίδευσε κ . τὸ σῶμα …, he  disciplined &c., but not Polyb. ii. 9. 6, where it is  ἀβλαβῶς ἐπαιδεύθησαν πρὸς τὸ μέλλον .
	 νουθεσία (a late form for νουθέτησις , see Phryn. Lob. p. 512) is as Cicero, ‘  quasi lenior objurgatio :’ ‘the training by word by the word of encouragement, when no more is wanted; of remonstrance, reproof, or blame where these are required.’ Trench, ubi supra)  of the Lord (i.e. Christ: either objective, ‘  concerning the Lord :’ so Thdrt. and very many of the ancients, and Erasm., Beza (not Est.), &c. or subjective ‘  such as the Lord approves and dictates by His Spirit,’ so De W., Harl., Olsh., Mey., Stier. Conyb. renders ‘  such training and correction as befits the servants of Christ ,’ which surely the words can hardly contain).