 24 .] General benediction on all who love Christ: corresponding, as Mey. suggests, with the malediction on all who love Him not, 1 Corinthians 16:22 .  May the grace (viz. of God, which comes by Christ)  be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility (i.e. whose love is incorruptible. The method of exegesis of this difficult expression will be, to endeavour to find some clue to the idea in the Apostle’s mind. He speaks, in Colossians 2:22 , of worldly things which are εἰς φθορὰν τῇ ἀποχρήσει · ἄφθαρτος is with him an epithet of God (Romans 1:23 . 1Ti 1:17 ): the dead are raised ἄφθαρτοι ( 1Co 15:52 ): the Christian’s crown is ἄφθαρτος ( 1Co 9:25 ).  ἀφθαρσία is always elsewhere in N. T. (reff.) the  incorruptibility of future immortality. If we seek elsewhere in the Epistles for an illustration of the term as applied to inward qualities, we find a close parallel in 1 Peter 3:4 ; where the ornament of women is to be ὁ κρυπτὸς τῆς καρδίας ἄνθρωπος ἐν τῷ  ἀφθάρτῳ τοῦ πραέος κ . ἡσυχίου πνεύματος the contrast being between the φθαρτά , ἀργύριον καὶ χρυσίον , and the  incorruptible graces of the renewed spiritual man. I believe we are thus led to the meaning here; that the love spoken of is ἐν ἀφθαρσία ; in, as its sphere and element and condition,  incorruptibility not a fleeting earthly love, but a spiritual and eternal one. And thus only is the word worthy to stand as the crown and climax of this glorious Epistle: whereas in the ordinary (E. V.) rendering, ‘  sincerity ,’ besides that (as Mey.) this would not be ἀφθαρσία but ἀφθορία ( Tit 2:7 ) or ἀδιαφθορία (see Wetst. on Tit. l. c.), the Epistle ends with an anti-climax, by lowering the high standard which it has lifted up throughout to an apparent indifferentism, and admitting to the apostolic blessing all those, however otherwise wrong, who are only not hypocrites in their love of Christ. As to the many interpretations, that  ἐν is for ὑπέρ (Chr. 2nd alt.), διὰ (Thl.), μετά (Thdrt.), εἰς (Beza), σύν (Piscator) that  ἐν ἀφθαρσίᾳ is to be taken with χάρις (Harl., Bengel, Stier), that  ἐν ἀφθ  . means ‘in immortality,’ as the sphere of the ἀγάπη , cf. ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρανίοις , ch. Ephesians 1:3 , that it is to be joined with  Ἰησοῦ χριστοῦ (‘Christum immortalem et gloriosum, non humilem,’ Wetst.), that it is short for ἵνα ζωὴν ἔχωσιν ἐν ἀφθαρσίᾳ (Olsh.), &c. &c. (see more in Mey.), none of them seem so satisfactory as that assigned above).