 5 9 .] See on ch. Ephesians 5:22 .  Duties of masters and slaves .  Slaves (or as Conyb., ‘  Bondsmen .’ There is no reason to render  οἱ δοῦλοι ,  servants , as in E. V., for by this much of the Apostle’s exhortation is deprived of point),  obey your lords according to the flesh (= τοῖς κατὰ σάρκα κυρίοις , Colossians 3:22 : not to be joined with  ὑπακούετε : nor can it be here said as so often, that κύριοσκατὰ - σάρκα is united in one idea: for in the context, another description of κύριος is brought forward, viz. ὁ χριστός . Chrys. sees in  κατὰ σάρκα a consolatory hint that the δεσποτεία is πρόσκαιρος καὶ βραχεῖα : Calv., that their real liberty was still their own: Ellic. in citing these, rightly observes, that however they may be doubted, still both, especially the latter, are obviously  deductions which must have been, and which the Apostle  might have intended to have been, made)  with fear and trembling (see reff., and note on 1 Corinthians 2:3 : whence it appears that the  φόβος κ  .   τρόμος was to be not that of dread, arising from their condition as slaves, but that of  anxiety to do their duty, ‘sollicita reverentia, quam efficiet cordis simplicitas.’ Calv.),  in (as its element)  simplicity (singleness of view: “so Pind., Nem. viii. 61, speaks of κελεύθοις ἁπλόαις ζωᾶς in contrast with πάρφασις , treachery: in Aristoph. Plut. 1159, it is opposed to δόλιος : in Philo, Opif. 36, 39 (§ 55, 61, vol. i. pp. 38, 41), it is classed with ἀκακία ,” Harl.)  of your heart, as to Christ (again He being the source and ground of all Christian motives and duties),  not in a spirit of (according to, measuring your obedience by)  eyeservice ( τὴν οὐκ ἐξ εἰλικρινοῦς καρδίας προσφερομένην θεραπείαν , ἀλλὰ τῷ σχήματι κεχρωσμένην , Thdrt. Xen. Œc. xii. 20, βασιλεὺς ἵππου ἐπιτυχὼν ἀγαθοῦ παχῦναι αὐτὸν ὡς τάχιστα βουλόμενος ἤρετο τῶν δεινῶν τινα ἀμφ ʼ ἵππους δοκούντων εἶναι , τί τάχιστα παχύνει ἵππον · τὸν δὲ εἰπεῖν λέγεται ὅτι δεσπότου ὀφθαλμός )  as men-pleasers (on  ἀνθρωπάρεσκοι , see Lob. on Phryn., p. 621; who, while disapproving of forms such as εὐάρεσκος and δυσάρεσκος , allows ἀνθρωπάρεσκος ),  but as slaves of Christ ( ὁ ἄρα ἀνθρωπάρεσκος , οὐ δοῦλος τοῦ χριστοῦ · ὁ δὲ δοῦλος τοῦ χριστοῦ , οὐκ ἀνθρωπάρεσκος . τίς γὰρ θεοῦ δοῦλος ὤν , ἀνθρώποις ἀρέσκειν βούλεται ; τίς δὲ ἀνθρώποις ἀρέσκων , θεοῦ δύναται εἶναι δοῦλος ; Chrys. The contrast is between  κατ  ʼ   ὀφθαλμοδουλείαν and  ὡς δοῦλοι χρ  . , and  ποιοῦντες κ . τ . λ . is a qualification of  δοῦλοι χριστοῦ . This is much more natural, than, with Rückert, to make ποιοῦντες κ . τ . λ . carry the emphasis, and ὡς δοῦλ . χρ . to be merely subordinate to it),  doing the will of God (serving not a  seen master only ( ὀφθαλμοδουλ .), but the great invisible Lord of all, which will be the surest guarantee for your serving your earthly masters, even when unseen);  from your soul with good will doing service (this arrangement, which is that of Syr., Chr., Jer., Beng., Lachm., Harl., De Wette, seems to me far better than the other (Tischdf., Mey., Ellic., al.) which joins  ἐκ ψυχῆς to  ποιοῦντες τὸ θέλ  .   τοῦ θεοῦ . For 1) these words need here no such qualification as ἐκ ψυχῆς : if the will of God be the real object of the man’s obedience, the μὴ κατ ʼ ὀφθαλμοδουλ . will be sufficiently answered: and 2) were it so, it would be more natural to find  ἐκ ψυχῆς preceding than following the clause, ἐκ ψυχῆς ποιοῦντες τὸ θέλ . τοῦ θεοῦ , or ἐκ ψυχῆς τὸ θέλ . τοῦ θεοῦ ποιοῦντες , or τὸ θέλ . τοῦ θεοῦ ἐκ ψυχῆς ποιοῦντες , whereas 3) the double qualification, ἐκ ψυχῆς μετ ʼ εὐνοίας , attached to δουλεύοντες , describes beautifully the source in himself ( ἐκ ψυχῆς ) and the accompanying feeling towards another ( μετ ʼ εὐνοίας ) of Christian service. On  εὔνοια in this sense, cf. Eur. Androm. 59, εὔνους δὲ καὶ σοί , ζῶντι δ ʼ ἦν τῷ σῷ πόσει : Xen. Œcon. xii. 5, εὔνοιαν πρῶτον … δεήσει αὐτὸν ἔχειν σοι καὶ τοῖς σοῖς …; ἄνευ γὰρ εὐνοίας τί ὄφελος ἐπιτρόπου ἐπιστήμης γίνεται ; and the other examples in Wetst.)  as to the Lord and not to men ,