 17 .]  And take (‘accipite oblatam a Domino.’ Beng.)  the helmet ( πρὸς δὲ τούτοις … περικεφαλαία χαλκῆ . Polyb. ubi supra)  of (genitive of apposition as above)  salvation (the neuter form, from LXX l. c.: otherwise confined to St. Luke. Beng. takes it masculine, ‘  salutaris , i.e. Christi,’ but this is harsh, and does not correspond to the parallel, 1 Thessalonians 5:8 , where the helmet is the hope of salvation, clearly shewing its subjective character. Here, it is  salvation appropriated , by faith),  and the sword of (furnished, forged, by: cf. τ . πανοπλ . τ . θεοῦ Ephesians 6:11 ; Ephesians 6:13 : not here the genitive of apposition, for ὅ ἐστιν follows after)  the Spirit, which (neuter, attracted to ῥῆμα : see ch. Eph 3:13 and reff. there)  is (see on ἐστιν , Gal 4:24 reff.)  the word of God (the Gospel: see the obvious parallel, Hebrews 4:12 : also Romans 1:16 : and our pattern for the use of this sword of the Spirit, Matthew 4:4 ; Matthew 4:7 ; Mat 4:10 );  with (see reff.: as the state through which, as an instrument, the action takes place. The clause depends on στῆτε οὖν , the principal imperative of the former sentence not on δέξασθε , which is merely a subordinate one, and which besides (Mey.) would express only how the weapons should be  taken , and therefore would not satisfy πάσης and ἐν παντὶ καιρῷ )  all (kind of)  prayer and supplication (“it has been doubted whether there is any exact distinction between προσευχή and δέησις . Chrys. and Thdrt. on 1Ti 2:1 explain προσευχή as αἴτησις ἀγαθῶν (see Suicer, Thes. s. Eph 6:1 ), δέησις as ὑπὲρ ἀπαλλαγῆς λυπηρῶν ἱκετεία (so Grot. as ἀπὸ τοῦ δέους , but see 2Co 1:11 ): compare Orig. de Orat. c. 33 (vol. i. p. 271). Alii alia. The most natural and obvious distinction is that adopted by nearly all recent Commentators, viz. that προσευχή is a ‘vocabulum sacrum’ (see Harl.) denoting prayer in general, ‘  precatio :’ δέησις a ‘vocabulum commune,’ denoting a special character or form of it, ‘petitum,’  rogatio : see Fritz. Romans 10:1 , vol. ii. p. 372. Huther on Tim. l. c.” Ellicott)  praying in every season (literal: cf. Luk 18:1 note, and 1 Thessalonians 5:17 . There seems to be an allusion to our Lord’s ἐν παντὶ καιρῷ δεόμενοι , ref. Luke)  in the Spirit (the Holy Spirit: see especially Jude 1:20 , and Romans 8:15 ; Romans 8:26 ; Galatians 4:6 : not,  heartily , as Est., Grot., al.),  and thereunto (with reference to their employment which has been just mentioned. Continual habits of prayer cannot be kept up without watchfulness to that very end. This is better than to understand it, with Chr., &c. of persistence in the prayer itself, which indeed comes in presently)  watching in (element in which: watching, being employed, in)  all (kind of)  importunity and supplication (not a hendiadys: rather the latter substantive is explanatory of the former, without losing its true force as coupled to it: ‘  importunity and (accompanied with, i.e. exemplified by)  supplication ’)  concerning all saints, and (  καί brings into prominence a particular included in the general: see Hartung, i. 145)  for me (certainly it seems that some distinction between  ὑπέρ and  περί should be marked: see Eadie’s note, where however he draws it too strongly. Krüger, § 68. 28. 3, regards the two in later writers as synonymous. So Meyer, who quotes Demosth. p. 74. 35, μὴ περὶ τῶν δικαίων μηδ ʼ ὑπὲρ τῶν ἔξω πραγμάτων εἶναι τὴν βουλήν , ἀλλ ʼ ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐν τῇ χώρᾳ ; and Xen. Mem. i. 1. 17, ὑπὲρ τούτων περὶ αὐτοῦ παραγνῶναι )  that (aim of the  ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ )  there may be given me (I do not see the relevance of a special emphasis on  δοθῇ as Mey., Ellic. That it is a  gift , would be of course, if it were prayed for from God)  speech in the opening of my mouth (many renderings have been proposed. First of all, the words must be joined with the preceding, not with the following, as in E. V., Grot., Kypke, De W., al., which would (see below) be too tame and prosaic for the solemnity of the passage. Œc. (and similarly Chr.? see Ellic.) regards the words as describing  unpremeditated speech: ἐν αὐτῷ τῷ ἀνοῖξαι ὁ λόγος προῄει . But as Mey., this certainly would have been expressed by ἐν αὐτῇ τῇ ἀν . or the like. Calv., ‘os apertum cupit, quod erumpat in liquidam et firmam confessionem: ore enim semiclauso proferuntur ambigua et perplexa responsa,’ and similarly Rück., al., and De W. But this again is laying too much on the phrase: see below. The same objection applies to Beza and Piscator’s rendering, ‘ut aperiam os meum:’ and to taking the phrase of an opening of his mouth  by God , as (Chrys. ἡ ἅλυσις ἐπίκειται τὴν παῤῥησίαν ἐπιστομίζουσα , ἀλλ ʼ ἡ εὐχὴ ἡ ὑμετέρα ἀνοίγει μου τὸ στόμα , ἵνα πάντα ἃ ἐπέμφθην εἰπεῖν , εἴπω ) Corn.-a-lap., Grot., Harl., and Olsh. from Psa 50:17 and Ezekiel 29:21 . The best rendering is that of Est. (‘dum os meum aperio’), Meyer, Eadie, Ellic., al., ‘  in (at)  the opening of my mouth ,’ i.e. ‘when I undertake to speak:’ thus we keep the meaning of ἀνοίγειν τὸ στόμα (reff. and Job 3:1 ; Dan 10:16 ), which always carries some solemnity of subject or occasion with it),  in boldness ((subjective) freedom of speech, not as Grot. (‘ut ab hac custodia militari liber per omnem urbem perferre possem sermonem evangelicum,’ &c.), Koppe (objective),  liberty of speech )  to make known (the purpose of the gift of λόγος ἐν ἀνοίξει τοῦ στόματος )  the mystery of the gospel (contained in the gospel: subjective genitive. ‘The genitive is somewhat different to τὸ μυστήρ . τοῦ θελήματος , ch. Ephesians 1:9 : there it was the mystery in the matter of, concerning the θέλημα , gen. objecti,’ Ellic.),  on behalf of which (viz. τοῦ μυστ . τοῦ εὐαγγ . for as Meyer remarks, this is the object of  γνωρίσαι , and  γνωρίσαι is pragmatically bound to  πρεσβεύω )  I am an ambassador (  of Christ (ref.):  to whom , is understood: we need not supply as Michaelis, to the court of Rome)  in chains (the singular is not to be pressed, as has been done by Paley, Wieseler, al., to signify the chain by which he was bound to ‘the soldier that kept him’ ( Act 28:20 ): for such singulars are often used collectively: see Bernhardy, Syntax, p. 58 f., Polyb. xxi. 3. 3, παρὰ μικρὸν εἰς τὴν ἅλυσιν ἐνέπεσον . Wetst. remarks, ‘alias legati, jure gentium sancti et inviolabiles, in vinculis haberi non poterant.’ His being thus a captive ambassador, was all the more reason why they should pray earnestly that he might have boldness, &c.),  that (co-ordinate purpose with  ἵνα δοθῇ , not subordinate to  πρεσβεύω . See examples of such a co-ordinate  ἵνα in Romans 7:13 ; Galatians 3:14 ; 2 Corinthians 9:3 . But no tautology (as Harl.) is involved: see below)  in (the matter of, in dealing with: cf. λήθη ἐν τοῖς μαθήμασι , Plato, Phileb. p. 252 B: and see Bernhardy, p. 212: not as in 1 Thessalonians 2:2 , ἐπαῤῥησιασάμεθα ἐν τῷ θεῷ ἡμῶν , where ἐν denotes the source or ground of the confidence)  it I may speak freely, as I ought to speak (no comma at με , as Koppe ‘  that I may have confidence, as I ought, to speak ;’ but the idea of speaking being already half understood in παῤῥησίᾳ , λαλῆσαι merely refers back to it. This last clause is a further qualification of the παῤῥησία that it is a courage and free-spokenness ὡς δεῖ : and therefore involves no tautology).