 21 .]  But (transition to another subject: the contrast being between his more solemn occupations just spoken of, and his personal welfare)  that ye also (the καί may have two meanings: 1) as  I have been going at length into the matters concerning  you , so if  you also on your part, wish to know my matters, &c.: 2) it may relate to some others whom the same messenger was to inform, and to whom he had previously written. If so, it would be an argument for the priority of the Epistle to the Colossians (so Harl. p. lx, Mey., Wieseler, and Wigger’s Stud. u. Krit. 1841, p. 432): for that was sent by Tychicus, and a similar sentiment occurs there, Ephesians 4:7 . But I prefer the former meaning)  may know the matters concerning me, how I fare (not, ‘  what I am doing ,’ as Wolf: Meyer answers well, that he was always doing  one thing : but as in Ælian, V. H. ii. 35, where Gorgias being sick is asked τί πράττοι ; or as in Plut. inst. Lac. p. 241 (Kypke), where when a Spartan mother asks her son τί πράσσει πατρίς ; he answers, ‘all have perished’)  Tychicus (Acts 20:4 .Colossians 4:7; Colossians 4:7 . 2 Timothy 3:12; 2 Timothy 3:122 Timothy 3:12 . He appears in the first-cited place amongst Paul’s companions to Asia from Corinth, classed with Τρόφιμος as Ἀσιανοί . Nothing more is known of him)  shall make known all to you, the beloved brother (reff.)  and faithful (trustworthy)  servant (‘  minister ’ is ambiguous, and might lead to the idea of Estius, who says on ‘  in Domino ,’ ‘non male hinc colligitur Tychicum sacra ordinatione diaconum fuisse:’ see Colossians 4:7 , where he is πιστὸς διάκονος καὶ σύνδουλος , and note there)  in the Lord (belongs to  διάκονος , not to both  ἀδ  . and  διάκ  . He διηκόνει ἐν κυρίῳ , Christ’s work being the field on which his labour was bestowed);  whom I sent to you for this very purpose (not ‘  for the same purpose ,’ as E. V.)  that ye may know the matters respecting us (see Colossians 4:8 , where this verse occurs word for word, but with ίνα γνῷ τὰ περὶ ὑμῶν for these words. Does not this variation bear the mark of genuineness with it? The ἡμῶν are those mentioned Col 4:10 )  and that he may comfort (we need not assign a reason why they wanted comfort: there would probably be many in those times of peril)  your hearts .