 12 .]  For (confirms  τ  .   μεθ  .   τοῦ διαβ  . preceding)  our (or ‘  your :’ the ancient authorities are divided)  wrestling (  πάλη must be literally taken it is a hand to hand and foot to foot ‘tug of war’ that in which the combatants close, and wrestle for the mastery)  is not (Meyer well remarks, that the negative is not to be softened down into  non tam , or  non tantum , as Grot., &c. the conflict which the Apostle means (qu.? better,  ἡ πάλη , the only conflict which can be described by such a word our life and death struggle, there being but  one such) is absolutely  not with men but &c. He quotes from Aug., “Non est nobis colluctatio adversus carnem et sanguinem, i.e. adversus homines, quos videtis sævire in nos. Vasa sunt, alius utitur: organa sunt, alius tangit”)  against blood and flesh (i.e. men: see reff.),  but (see above)  against the governments, against the powers (see note on ch. Eph 1:21 ),  against the world-rulers (  munditenentes , as Tert. c. Marc. Ephesians 6:18 , vol. ii. p. 58. Cf. Joh 12:31 note; John 14:30 ; Joh 16:11 ; 2 Corinthians 4:4 ; 1 John 5:19 . The Rabbis (see Schöttg.) adopted this very word קוסמוקרתור , and applied it partly to earthly kings (as on Genesis 13:0 ), partly to the Angel of Death; ‘quamvis te feci κοσμοκράτορα super homines &c.’ So that the word must be literally understood, as in the places cited. Cf. Ellicott’s note)  of this (state of)  darkness (see ch. Ephesians 2:2 ; Ephesians 5:8 ; Eph 5:11 ),  against the spiritual (  armies ) (so we have (Mey.) τὸ πολιτικόν (Herod. vii. 103), τὸ ἱππικόν ( Rev 9:16 ), τὰ λῃστρικά (Polyæn. Eph 6:14 ), τὰ δοῦλα , τὰ αἰχμάλωτα &c. Winer, Gr. § 34, remark 3, compares τὰ δαιμόνια , originally a neuter-adjective form. See Bernhardy, Synt. p. 326, for more examples. Stier maintains the abstract meaning, ‘  the spiritual things :’ but as Ellic. remarks, the meaning could not be ‘  spiritales malignitates ,’ as Beza, but ‘  spiritualia nequitiæ ,’ as the Vulg., i.e. ‘  the spiritual elements ,’ or ‘  properties ,’ ‘  of wickedness ,’ which will not suit here)  of wickedness in the heavenly places (but  what is the meaning? Chrys. connects  ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρανίοις with ἡ πάλη ἐστὶν ἐν τοῖς ἐπ . ἡ μάχη κεῖται … ὡς ἂν εἰ ἔλεγεν , ἡ συνθήκη ἐν τίνι κεῖται ; ἐν χρυσῷ . And so Thdrt., Phot., Œc., al. But it is plain that  ἐν will not bear this (Chrys. says, τὸ ἐν ,  ὑπέρ ἐστι , καὶ τὸ ἐν ,  διὰ ἐστι ), though possibly the order of the sentence might. Rückert, Matth., Eadie, al., interpret of the  scene of the combat , thus also joining ἐν τ . ἐπ . with ἔστ . ἡμ . ἡ πάλη . The objection to this is twofold: 1) that the words thus appear without any sort of justification in the context: nay rather as a weakening of the following διὰ τοῦτο , instead of a strengthening: and 2) that according to Eadie’s argument, they stultify themselves. He asks, “How can they (the heavenly places, the scenes of divine blessing, of Christ’s exaltation, &c.) be the seat or abode of impure fiends?” But if they are “  the scene of ” our “  combat ” with these fiends, how can our enemies be any where else but in them? Two ways then remain: to join  ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρ  . a) with  τὰ πνευματικὰ τῆς πονηρίας b) with  τῆς πονηρίας only. The absence of an article before  ἐν forms of course an objection to both: but not to both equally. Were b) to be adopted, the specifying  τῆς would appear to be required because the sense would be, ‘  of that wickedness ,’ viz., the rebellion of the fallen angels, ‘  which was (or is)  in the heavenly places .’ If a), we do not so imperatively require the τά before  ἐν , because  ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρ  . only specifies the locality, does not distinguish τὰ πνευματικὰ τῆς πονηρ . ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρ . from any other πνευματικὰ τῆς πονηρίας elsewhere. So that this is in grammar the least objectionable rendering. And in sense it is, notwithstanding what Eadie and others have said, equally unobjectionable. That habitation of the evil spirits which in ch. Eph 2:2 was said, when speaking of mere matters of fact, to be in the  ἀήρ , is, now that the difficulty and importance of the Christian conflict is being forcibly set forth, represented as ἐν τοῖς ἐπουρανίοις over us, and too strong for us without the panoply of God. Cf. τὰ πετεινὰ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ , Matthew 6:26 ; and reff.).