30. And thou shalt—We have
	here the language of law, expressive of God's claims.
	What then are we here bound down to do? One word is made to express
	it. And what a word! Had the essence of the divine law consisted in
	deeds, it could not possibly have been expressed in a single
	word; for no one deed is comprehensive of all others embraced in the
	law. But as it consists in an affection of the soul, one word
	suffices to express it—but only one. Fear, though due to God
	and enjoined by Him, is limited in its sphere and distant
	in character. Trust, hope, and the like, though essential
	features of a right state of heart towards God, are called into
	action only by personal necessity, and so are—in a good
	sense, it is true, but still are properly—selfish
	affections; that is to say, they have respect to our own
	well-being. But LOVE
	is an all-inclusive affection, embracing not only every other
	affection proper to its object, but all that is proper to be done
	to its object; for as love spontaneously seeks to please its object,
	so, in the case of men to God, it is the native well spring of a
	voluntary obedience. It is, besides, the most personal of all
	affections. One may fear an event, one may hope for an event,
	one may rejoice in an event; but one can love only a Person.
	It is the tenderest, the most unselfish, the most
	divine of all affections. Such, then, is the affection in
	which the essence of the divine law is declared to consist. 
	Thou shalt love—We now
	come to the glorious Object of that demanded affection. 
	Thou shalt love the Lord, thy
	God—that is, Jehovah, the Self-Existent One, who has revealed
	Himself as the "I AM,"
	and there is none else; who, though by His name JEHOVAH
	apparently at an unapproachable distance from His finite creatures,
	yet bears to Thee a real and definite relationship, out of
	which arises His claim and Thy duty—of LOVE.
	But with what are we to love Him? Four things are here specified.
	First, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God" 
	with thy heart—This
	sometimes means "the whole inner man" (as  :-); but that cannot be meant here; for then the other three
	particulars would be superfluous. Very often it means "our
	emotional nature"—the seat of feeling as distinguished
	from our intellectual nature or the seat of thought, commonly
	called the "mind" (as in  :-). But neither can this be the sense of it here; for here the
	heart is distinguished both from the "mind" and the "soul."
	The "heart," then, must here mean the sincerity of
	both the thoughts and the feelings; in other words, uprightness
	or true-heartedness, as opposed to a hypocritical or
	divided affection. But next, "Thou shalt love the Lord
	thy God" with thy soul. This is designed to command our
	emotional nature: Thou shalt put feeling or warmth into
	thine affection. Further, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God"
	with thy mind—This
	commands our intellectual nature: Thou shalt put intelligence
	into thine affection—in opposition to a blind devotion, or mere
	devoteeism. Lastly, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God" 
	with thy strength—This
	commands our energies: Thou shalt put intensity into thine
	affection—"Do it with thy might" ( :-). Taking these four things together, the command of the Law
	is, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
	powers—with a sincere, a fervid, an intelligent,
	an energetic love." But this is not all that the Law
	demands. God will have all these qualities in their most perfect
	exercise. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God," says the Law,
	"with all thy heart," or, with perfect sincerity;
	"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy soul,"
	or, with the utmost fervor; "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God
	with all thy mind," or, in the fullest exercise of an
	enlightened reason; and "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with
	all thy strength," or, with the whole energy of our
	being! So much for the First Commandment.