27. He is not the God of the dead,
	but the God of the living—not "the God of dead but [the
	God] of living persons." The word in brackets is almost
	certainly an addition to the genuine text, and critical editors
	exclude it. "For all live unto Him" ( :-) —"in His view," or "in His estimation."
	This last statement—found only in Luke—though adding nothing to
	the argument, is an important additional illustration. It is true,
	indeed, that to God no human being is dead or ever will be, but all
	mankind sustain an abiding conscious relation to Him; but the "all"
	here means "those who shall be accounted worthy to obtain that
	world." These sustain a gracious covenant relation to God which
	cannot be dissolved. (Compare Romans 6:10;
	Romans 6:11). In this sense our Lord
	affirms that for Moses to call the Lord the "GOD"
	of His patriarchal servants, if at that moment they had no existence,
	would be unworthy of Him. He "would be ashamed to be
	called their God, if He had not prepared for them a city" (Romans 6:11- :). It was concluded by some of the early Fathers, from our
	Lord's resting His proof of the Resurrection on such a passage as
	this, instead of quoting some much clearer testimonies of the Old
	Testament, that the Sadducees, to whom this was addressed,
	acknowledged the authority of no part of the Old Testament but the
	Pentateuch; and this opinion has held its ground even till now. But
	as there is no ground for it in the New Testament, so JOSEPHUS
	is silent upon it; merely saying that they rejected the Pharisaic
	traditions. It was because the Pentateuch was regarded by all classes
	as the fundamental source of the Hebrew religion, and all the
	succeeding books of the Old Testament but as developments of it, that
	our Lord would show that even there the doctrine of the Resurrection
	was taught. And all the rather does He select this passage, as being
	not a bare annunciation of the doctrine in question, but as
	expressive of that glorious truth out of which the Resurrection
	springs. "And when the multitude heard this" (says Romans 6:11- :), "they were astonished at His doctrine." "Then,"
	adds Luke 20:39; Luke 20:40,
	"certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well
	said"—enjoying His victory over the Sadducees. "And after
	that they durst not ask Him any [question at all]"—neither
	party could; both being for the time utterly foiled. 
	The Great Commandment (Luke 20:40- :). 
	"But when the Pharisees had
	heard that He had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered
	together" (Matthew 22:34).