Was clothed. Imperfect, and frequentative; denoting his habitual attire. Purple (porfuran). Originally the purple fish from which the color was obtained, and thence applied to the color itself. Several kinds of these were found in the Mediterranean. The color was contained in a vein about the neck. Under the term purple the ancients included three distinct colors :  Luke 16:0:1A deep violet, with a black or dusky tinge; the color meant by Homer in describing an ocean wave : "As when the great sea grows purple with dumb swell" (" Iliad, : 14, 16).  Luke 16:0:2Deep scarlet or crimson - the Tyrian purple.  Luke 16:0:3The deep blue of the Mediterranean. The dye was permanent. Alexander is said by Plutarch to have found in the royal palace at Susa garments which preserved their freshness of color though they had been laid up for nearly two hundred years; and Mr. St. John (" Manner and Customs of Ancient Greece ") relates that a small pot of the dye was discovered at Pompeii which had preserved the tone and richness attributed to the Tyrian purple. This fixedness of color is alluded to in Isa 1:18 - though your sins were as scarlet, the term being rendered in the Septuagint foinikoun, which, with its kindred words, denoted darker shades of red. A full and interesting description of the purple may be found in J. A. St. John's "Manners and Customs of Ancient Greece," 3, 224 sq. Fine linen [βυσσον] . Byssus. A yellowish flax, and the linen made from it. Herodotus says it was used for enveloping mummies (ii. 86), a statement confirmed by microscopic examinations. He also speaks of it as a bandage for a wound (vii. 181). It is the word used by the Septuagint for linen (Exodus 25:4; Exodus 28:5; Exodus 35:6, etc.). Some of the Egyptian linen was so fine that it was called woven air. Sir Gardner Wilkinson says that some in his possession was, to the touch, comparable to silk, and not inferior in texture to the finest cambric. It was often as transparent as lawn, a fact illustrated by the painted sculptures, where the entire form is often made distinctly visible through the outer garment. Later Greek writers used the word for cotton and silk. See Wilkinson's "Ancient Egyptians," first series, 3, 114 sq., and Rawlinson's "History of Ancient Egypt," 1, 487, 512. A yellow byssus was used by the Greeks, the material for which grew around Elis, and which was enormously costly. See Aeschylus, "Persae," 127. Fared sumptuously [ευφραινομενος λαμπρως] . Lit., making merry in splendor. Compare ch. 14 23, 24, 29, 32. Wyc., he ate, each day, shiningly.